
Last week, the Food and Drug Administration issued a stern warning to biohackers in America: Undertaking DIY gene therapy, it warned, is risky, and selling the supplies to do it is flat-out against the law.
“FDA is aware that gene therapy products intended for self-administration and ‘do it yourself’ kits to produce gene therapies for self-administration are being made available to the public. The sale of these products is against the law. FDA is concerned about the safety risks involved,” the agency said.
Advertisement

The statement came on the heels of two very public demonstrations of unregulated, do-it-yourself genetic engineering. In one, a 27-year-old software engineer injected himself with an unproven gene therapy for HIV while streaming live on Facebook. In the other, a well-known biohacker injected himself with  a gene to promote muscle growth  at a San Francisco biotech conference. New genetic engineering technologies has spurred a burgeoning movement of biohackers doing sophisticated science outside of formal labs. Until last week, though, regulators have mostly stayed out of it.
The FDA’s brief statement raised many questions. For one, the agency singled out CRISPR in particular as a subject of concern, noting that it “considers any use of CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing in humans to be gene therapy.” But what about other gene editing techniques, of which there are many? It also offered no details on which regulations selling DIY gene therapy supplies violated, or how it planned to enforce those regulations.
After the initial warning, Gizmodo reached out to the FDA for clarity on how it might affect the biohacking community.
For one, the agency, made clear, it’s not just CRISPR: “Gene editing in humans by any method would be considered gene therapy regulated by FDA,” a spokesperson said, noting that it only mentioned CRISPR because it’s such a buzzy word.
And the selling of kits, it seems, would be considered illegal because, in broad terms, the agency would consider it the sale of any unapproved “gene therapy product” akin to the sale of an unapproved drug. If someone wants to test an unapproved drug in humans, they must first clear a clinical investigation with the FDA.
Per the agency:
A clinical investigation, described in title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations, part 312.2 is defined as: any experiment in which a drug is administered or dispensed to, or used involving, one or more human subjects. An experiment is any use of a drug except for the use of a marketed drug in the course of medical practice.
The clarification makes it appear likely that the warning was motivated by the October experiment involving the unproven gene therapy for HIV. While the subject of the experiment actually injected the vaccine himself, its development was paid for by a company, Ascendence Biomedical. The company plans to sell the “research compounds” used to make the vaccine online and to fund “transparent” clinical trials that would skirt typical regulatory oversight by having people deliver their own treatment. The initial experiment raised significant concerns because there has been no human clinical trials of such an HIV treatment to date.
Advertisement

Ascendence Biomedical says it has no plans to change course based on the warning.
“It sounds like the FDA would like to believe that a  research compound expressly not for human consumption becomes a clinical investigation as soon as the individual in receipt of it decides of their own free will  to use it for personal research purposes,” CEO Aaron Traywick told Gizmodo. “These definitions were not set in place to regulate such activities, and there appears no specific law regulating such activities.”
If the FDA chose to step in, it could also affect The Odin, a company run by Josiah Zayner, the biohacker who injected himself with CRISPR. The Odin sells kits for home genetic engineering, and though those kits do not expressly mention humans, it also sells a human DNA plasmid that promotes muscle growth for $20. (It comes with this warning: “This product is not injectable or meant for direct human use. The DNA needs to replicated and purified before use in human cells.”)
Advertisement

Zayner also says he has no plans to heed the agency’s warning, because he feels it does no apply.
“It seems people are getting after me because I promote people doing something even though I am not selling them the thing,” Zayner told Gizmodo. “Even if someone were to inject the DNA, the concentration is so low and it doesn’t have the required chemicals to get it in cells efficiently.”
The FDA would not offer further detail on which products it specifically considers in violation of its regulations, or how it might penalize those that violate them.
Advertisement

“I can’t cite specifics,” a spokesperson told Gizmodo, “Information about the agency’s inspection and surveillance activities, including whether the agency is considering action, is generally not made available to the public unless and until enforcement action is taken.”
In the past, with a few exceptions, the regulators have largely left biohackers alone. The FBI has even gone so far as to cultivate a friendly relationship with them. At least as far as the FDA is concerned though, that laissez faire attitude may be a thing of the past.


The British Ecological Society has announced the winners of its annual photo competition, and it features fantastic photos of fearsome predators pouncing on prey, a freakishly rare ocelot, and a crafty chameleon doing what a chameleon does best.
This year’s competition was called “Capturing Ecology,” and it features photos primarily taken by international ecologists and students. In addition to capturing beautiful images, the photographers had to demonstrate interactions between different species in their natural environments—a not-so-easy task. The competition featured several different categories, each with an overall winner and a student winner. Here are some of our favorites.
This photo by Christopher Beirne was the overall winner of the competition. It shows a male ocelot traversing a human-made trail at the Manu Learning Centre, Peru. “Although we often think of trails through tropical rainforests as having negative impacts on local wildlife, several cats species (including the ocelot and its larger cousins pumas and jaguars) often use these trails to rapidly move around their home ranges,” writes Beirne in a press release.
Retiree Mark Tatchell was the runner-up with this colorful photo of a Toco toucan (Ramphastos toco).
Leejiah Dorward was the Overall Student Winner for this picture of a flap-necked chameleon climbing a flowering plant stem in search for a safe spot to roost for the night in Southern Tanzania.
Student prize for the dynamic ecosystems category went to Leejiah Dorward for this photo of a Savanna vine snake holding a firm grip on a doomed Speckle-fronted weaver in Southern Tanzania. The snake’s camouflage makes it a formidable killer.
A pregnant female Leatherback turtle slinks back to the ocean after being saved by local NGOs and scientists after it became stranded inland. The previous evening, she mistook the city lights of Libreville, Gabon, for the starry night sky. Adult females depend on astronomical navigation when returning to their natal beaches to lay eggs. This photo won Adam Rees the Student Prize in the Ecology and Society category.
Nick Harvey won the Student Prize in the Ecology in Action category. In this scene, a white rhino had to be relocated from a small reserve in KwaZulu-Natal to prevent inbreeding. The massive bull was darted from the helicopter, blindfolded, injected with a tracker, and shoved—by hand—into a crate.
The overall winner in the Ecology in Action category went to Dominic Cram for this picture of meerkats loitering around a scale. “At the Kalahari Meerkat Project, wild meerkats are habituated to the presence of human observers, and are trained to climb onto electronic balances,” writes the BES. “Close observation of meerkats, and regular collection of weight data, allow researchers from the University of Cambridge to investigate behaviour and growth in a natural ecological context.”
An inquisitive cub is seen coming out of its mother’s protection to explore the world outside, in this photo taken by Nilanjan Chatterjee. The image was winner of the Individuals and Populations category.
“During an excursion in my third year studying biology, a butterfly, Anthocharis cardamines, was caught and put into a plastic jar,” said Sanne Govaert, who took the photo. “This way the butterfly could be easily identified and shown to the interested students. The jar was scratched, giving an artistic flare to the picture.” This image won Student Prize in the Art of Ecology category.
Winner of the Up Close and Personal category went to Roberto García Roa for this picture of a male Anolis Lizard in  in Costa Rica.
[British Ecological Society]


Oops! Andromeda, our closest galactic neighbor, sits a measly 2.5 million light years away from Earth. Like the Milky Way, it’s a spiral galaxy packed with stars. Some of those stars orbit one another. That’s all good—but scientists have come to the realization that a particular light source, one assumed to be binary star system in Andromeda, may actually be something far stranger. Like a pair of orbiting supermassive black holes a thousand times further away.
“J0045+41,” the strange source, “is an exciting and unique object,” the scientists from the University of Washington write in their paper, accepted by the Astrophysical Journal.
Advertisement

A team of Spanish scientists first identified the source,  J0045+41, back in 2006. More specifically, they were looking for  binary star systems that could be used to better determine astronomical distances. Others catalogued it as a potential cluster of stars.
A team of researchers from the University of Washington combined data on the object’s light using the Gemini Multi-Object Spectrograph and NASA’s Chandra X-Ray Telescope to experience their “that’s no moon” moment. The data instead implied that J0045+41 was an active galactic nuclei, an incredibly bright galactic center with a supermassive black hole at the core, 2.5 billion light years away.
The scientists did detect some evidence of this light source dimming and brightening regularly. But this regular flashing looked almost exactly how the laws of physics would predict supermassive black holes orbiting one another would look.
Also, they did their analysis in the python programming language. I don’t know why I feel like pointing that out, but I felt like pointing that out today. Physics requires computers.
Ultimately, the researchers hope to take better data using the upcoming Zwicky Transient Facility survey, a next-generation camera that’s just started detecting weird things in space. And if these were really supermassive black holes orbiting one another, perhaps one day researchers will be able to detect their gravitational waves. 
When you’re trying to decode the origin of distant lights, mistakes can happen. But sometimes they can result in really wild discoveries.
[arXiv via Chandra X-ray Observatory]


If you’ve taken a science class, you’re likely aware that DNA is the body’s instruction manual. But its language is only written in four letters: A, T, C, and G. Those who paid extra close attention will remember that RNA, the photocopy of the instructions that the cell actually uses, replaces the Ts with the letter U.
Back in 2014, scientists at the Scripps Research Institute in California reported that they’d engineered bacteria whose DNA used a whole new pair of letters, nicknamed X and Y. That same team now reports that they’ve gotten the bacteria to actually use these new letters. The biological possibilities, as a result, now seem endless.
Advertisement

“The resulting semi-synthetic organism both encodes and retrieves increased information,” report the authors this week in Nature, “and should serve as a platform for the creation of new life forms and functions,” like new kinds of bacteria with specialized purposes (cleaning the environment, storing gifs...who knows) for example.
The initial five letters actually represent two pairs of molecules. G, or guanine, always partners with C, or cytosine. A, or adenine, partners with T, thymine in DNA, but in the copy of the DNA the body actually uses, the RNA, it partners with U, or uracil. The DNA double helix is sort of like a zipper whose teeth are composed of these “nucleobases.”
These bases cryptically code for amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. The RNA copies the DNA then heads over to the ribosome, the worker who can actually use the instructions to build a protein from these amino acids.
Researchers previously engineered an E. coli bacteria that could incorporate a new pair, d5SICSTP and dNaMTP or X and Y. But the new paper in Nature reports E. coli actually constructing special fluorescent proteins that add new amino acids, based on the simple instructions containing these whole new letters.
We’re not in the world where the existing five (and now seven) letters become a whole slew of new ones just yet. The researchers only introduced two new ones, and only tested them on two “codons,” or three letter phrases that usually code for single amino acids. It’s like introducing a new letter to the English language but only using it to make a couple of new words.
Still, the sky is the limit if the paper is to be taken at its word. “Thus, the reported semi-synthetic organism is likely to be just the first of a new form of semi-synthetic life that is able to access a broad range of forms and functions not available to natural organisms.”
Maybe.
[Nature]


Just look at this incredibly detailed photo of Jupiter’s clouds as captured by NASA’s Juno spacecraft. It’s an otherworldly distraction to keep our minds off all the crap that’s happening here on Earth, at least for a little while.
Juno snapped this photo on October 27th when it was just 11,747 miles (18,906 km) from the tops of Jupiter’s clouds. The scale of this image is 7.75 miles for each pixel, or about 12 km/pixel.
The stunning blue, grey, and white swirls look like drops of oil in a puddle of water, showcasing the complexity of Jupiter’s turbulent atmosphere. Juno captured this image at just the right time when the gas giant’s high altitude clouds were casting a shadow on their surroundings.
This particular region of Jupiter is in the northern hemisphere. Juno was nearly three-fifths of the way from Jupiter’s equator to its north pole, and conducting its ninth close flyby, when the photo was taken.
Advertisement

Before you move on to the next article, take a few moments to enjoy this remarkable view of the Solar System’s largest planet. Good things like this seem scarce these days—and who knows what horror the next click of your mouse might bring.
[NASA]


A new drug, called Erenumab, has shown promise in preventing migraine attacks, the intense headaches that chronically plague millions of adults each year in the US alone.
Erenumab is a lab-made antibody that works by blocking a neural pathway called CGRP. Data from a recent phase three reported Thursday in the New England Journal of Medicine found that it cut the number of “migraine days” experienced each month by 1,000 patients to between three and four. In half of those patients, the length that the migraines lasted were reduced by at least half.
Advertisement

Migraines are an extremely common ailment, and recent estimates suggest they affect about one in seven adults annually. They’re a significant public health problem, contributing every year to many outpatient doctors visits as well as visits to the ER.
The phase three trial compared patients taking erenumab for six months with others given a  placebo. By months four to six, there was at least a 50 percent reduction in the mean number of migraine days per month for about 43 percent of patients injected under the skin with a 70 milligram dose of erenumab each month. With a doubled dose, half of patients saw similar results. More than a quarter of those on the placebo, though, also experienced benefits.
Placebo effects are common in studies related to pain, including migraines. Whether the drug ultimately passes muster with the FDA will depend on whether the agency views the benefits as robust enough, and in enough people. Either way, though, the drug points to an important avenue of research to explore for a terrible condition that  impacts millions each year.
[New England Journal of Medicine]


When an unresponsive patient arrived at a Florida hospital ER, the medical staff was taken aback upon discovering the words “DO NOT RESUSCITATE” tattooed onto the man’s chest—with the word “NOT” underlined and with his signature beneath it. Confused and alarmed, the medical staff chose to ignore the apparent DNR request—but not without alerting the hospital’s ethics team, who had a different take on the matter.
As described in a New England Journal of Medicine case report, the unnamed 70-year-old man was brought to the ER by paramedics in an unconscious state, and with an elevated blood alcohol level. The patient had a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (a type of lung disease), diabetes, and an irregular heart rate. His condition began to deteriorate several hours after being admitted, and dramatic medical interventions were needed to keep the patient alive.
But with the “DO NOT RESUSCITATE” tattoo glaring back at them, the ICU team was suddenly confronted with a serious dilemma. The patient arrived at the hospital without ID, the medical staff was unable to contact next of kin, and efforts to revive or communicate with the patient were futile. The medical staff had no way of knowing if the tattoo was representative of the man’s true end-of-life wishes, so they decided to play it safe and ignore it.
Advertisement

“We initially decided not to honor the tattoo, invoking the principle of not choosing an irreversible path when faced with uncertainty,” wrote the authors of the case study. “This decision left us conflicted owing to the patient’s extraordinary effort to make his presumed advance directive known; therefore, an ethics consultation was requested.”
But there was more too it than just the medical ethics. Gregory Holt, the lead author of the new case study, said the biggest question in his mind was the legal aspect of whether or not it was acceptable. “Florida has stringent rules on this,” he told Gizmodo.
Most patients receiving end-of-life care want to avoid aggressive attempts to prolong their life,…
While the DNR tattoo may seem extreme, the request to not be resuscitated during end-of-life care is most certainly not. Roughly 80 percent of US Medicare patients say “they wish to avoid hospitalization and intensive care during the terminal phase of illness.” Revealingly, a 2014 survey showed that the vast majority of physicians would prefer to skip high-intensity interventions for themselves. Of the 1,081 doctors polled, over 88 percent opted for do-not-resuscitate status. Indeed, measures to keep a patient alive are often invasive, painful, and costly. DNRs, which hospital staff refer to as “no-codes,” are an explicit request to forego high-intensity interventions like CPR, electric shock, and intubation tubes. More implicitly, it’s a request to not be hooked up to a machine.
Typically, DNRs are formal, notarized documents that a patient gives to their doctor and family members. Tattoos, needless to say, are a highly unorthodox—but arguably direct—means of conveying one’s end-of-life wishes. That said, this patient’s tattoo presented some undeniable complications for the hospital staff. Is a tattoo a legal document? Was it a regretful thing the patient did while he was drunk or high? Did he get the tattoo, but later change his opinion? On this last point, a prior case does exist in which a patient’s DNR tattoo did not reflect their wishes (as the authors wrote in this 2012 report: “...he did not think anyone would take his tattoo seriously...”).
In this most recent NEJM case, the ICU team did its best to keep the patient alive as the ethics team mulled over the situation, administering antibiotics, vasopressors (to elevate low blood pressure), intravenous fluid resuscitation, and other measures.
“After reviewing the patient’s case, the ethics consultants advised us to honor the patient’s DNR tattoo,” Holt told Gizmodo. “They suggested that it was most reasonable to infer that the tattoo expressed an authentic preference, that what might be seen as caution could also be seen as standing on ceremony [i.e. adherence to medical tradition and norms], and that the law is sometimes not nimble enough to support patient-centered care and respect for patients’ best interests.”
Advertisement

Accordingly, the ICU team wrote up a DNR, and the patient died later that evening without having undergone any emergency DNR measures. Before he died, however, the hospital’s social work department discovered the patient’s Florida Department of Health “out-of-hospital” DNR order, which was consistent with the tattoo.
But as the authors of the new report point out, the whole incident “produced more confusion than clarity,” saying that, despite how hard it can be for patients to make their end-of-life wishes known, “this case report neither supports nor opposes the use of tattoos to express end-of-life wishes when the person is incapacitated.”
Kerry Bowman, a bioethicist at the University of Toronto, agrees that this incident was challenging.
Advertisement

“Advanced directives of any kind do not override most recent expressed capable wish,” Bowman told Gizmodo. “In other words, [the patient] may have changed his mind and there may be no way of knowing. Tattoo regret is not rare. [The ICU team’s] defense is erring on the side of life.”
At the same time, however, Bowman is sympathetic to the patient, saying the tattoo may be an expression of how often patients’ wishes are somehow overlooked and the system takes over. “My position would be if someone went to the great length of having DNR tattooed with a signature, it indicates a strong and clear wish,” he told Gizmodo.
Melissa Garrido, an Associate Professor at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in NYC, shares this sentiment, saying that even when a DNR order has been entered into a medical record, it is not always readily accessible in a health crisis. “A standardized tattoo may be a readily accessible method for communicating a strongly held care preference,” she told Gizmodo.
Advertisement

Correction: A previous version of this article stated that vasopressors  lower blood pressure. They do the opposite, and we regret the error.
[New England Journal of Medicine]


This weekend, for the several billionth or so time in Earth’s history, the Moon will be in the part of its orbit around Earth where it’s a little closer, 16,000 miles closer than usual, and it looks a teeny amount larger. By this point, this so-called “supermoon” is a fairly cliched but certainly hyped piece of science news.
But honestly, you should look at the Moon. Not just today, but tomorrow, next week, next month, and next year. Look at it every night (if you can). Why not? It’s over four billion years old, it’s an incredible rock only 240 thousand or so miles away. It’s responsible for the tides and eclipses and moderating the climate. Humans literally walked on that thing. It’s deeply rooted in culture and religion, and you’ll join the billions of others who’ve looked at and appreciated the Moon all through history. You can’t look at the Sun, after all.
Advertisement

I take that back, actually. You can look at the Sun! Remember those eclipse glasses you have from this past August that you thought you’d never use again? If they’re not fake, you can just pop them on and look right at the Sun—directly at it, in fact. You can see sunspots, darker areas on the Sun that could be responsible for solar weather, like solar flares.
If you’ve managed to hang onto your solar eclipse glasses since August 21st, don’t throw them away! …
And as long as you’re looking at the Sun and the Moon, you can look at the stars and the planets—and even distant galaxies! You can get decent binoculars for a hundred bucks, and a pretty good telescope for less than two hundred. You can look at Saturn’s rings yourself. You can see Jupiter’s stripes. Heck, find a dark enough spot, and you can even see the spiral arms of the Pinwheel Galaxy, or nearby Andromeda’s bright center.
Those crazy pictures you see on websites like this one? Yeah, you can go look at that stuff yourself. And if you don’t have a telescope, you can just look at some of it with your regular old eyes. Look at the vast Milky Way plastered across the sky and the constellations. Look at the fuzzy tails of passing comets or the bright flashes of  meteors.
Oh, is it cloudy out? Bummer. Well, why don’t you look at Earth then? This planet has been around for billions of years. You can pull apart its history in its rocks, in the dirt, in its plants, in the animals and in the ocean.
Get a telescope. Get a microscope. Get a chemistry set. Get a metal detector. Can’t afford it? Borrow someone else’s, or go to a public showing at a local university. Build your own radio. Take apart a clock. Grow a garden. Make a volcano.
Advertisement

Look at the Moon. Look at everything. Not just this weekend because the internet told you to. Look at it all the time.


For much of recorded history, skin color has been loaded with powerful social meaning. Skin color plays a major part in how we define race. It also plays a significant role in racism.
New studies of the genetics of skin color, though, have begun to shed light on how wrong those assumptions about the relationship between race and skin color really are. The genetics of skin pigmentation appears to be far more complex than previously thought.
Advertisement

Skin color is a heritable condition, meaning it is trait passed down to you by your parents. But skin color is not determined by any one single gene, and how those genes interplay to make you look like you is by no means straightforward. In a new study of indigenous southern African people published Thursday in the journal Cell, researchers from the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Stanford University, and Stony Brook University report that the number of genes involved in skin pigmentation increase in number—and therefore also complexity—the closer they reside to the equator.
“It’s often under-appreciated how much skin pigmentation variation there is in Africa,” Brenna Henn, a study author and researcher at Stony Brook, told Gizmodo. “Between people in Ghana and South Africa there is a big difference in skin pigmentation. Even within this one population in South Africa we see a lot of variation. Some people are quite light-skinned and some are quite dark-skinned.”
The researchers spent seven years with the KhoeSan people, interviewing them, recording details such as height, age, gender, and using what’s called a reflectometer to quantitatively measure skin color. All told, they collected data for about 400 people. They then genotyped each sample, looking at hundreds of thousands of spots on the genome to identify markers associated with pigmentation, and sequenced those regions. Genetics, generally, is a comparative science, so next they compared the new data to a dataset that was comprised of 5,000 people from across the globe.
What they found undercuts a common view about how genetics and skin color works. The prevailing theory reflects what you probably imagine when you think of how skin color differentiates across the globe: People closer to the equator are darker, and the further away you get, the lighter in pigment. The new data, though, suggests a picture that is far more complex. In the far north, they found, it’s generally true that the farther north in latitude you go, the lighter the complexion. But closer to the equator, things get all mixed up. Something called “stabilizing selection” comes into play, and a greater number of genes begin to affect skin color, resulting in an increased chance of variability. The scientists were only able to attribute about 10 percent of that variation to genes already known to impact skin color.
The work also resulted in new insights into particular genes. A mutation in one gene, the pithily named SLC24A5, is thought to have cropped up in Europe some 10,000 to 20,000 years ago. But in the KhoeSan population, it appears much more frequently than would be expected, suggesting it either actually first arose in the KhoeSan people, entered the population through mating thousands of years ago, or perhaps began to show up more frequently over time because it produced some genetic advantage to the KhoeSan people in particular.
Another study published this fall looked at the evolution of gene variants associated with skin color and similarly concluded that past assumptions about genetics and skin color have been just plain wrong. In that study, researchers zeroed in on eight genetic variants in four regions of the human genome that strongly influence pigment. They found that those genes are shared across the globe. One gene, for example, played a role in lightening the skin of both Europeans and hunter-gatherers in Botswana. That gene, they found, predated Homo sapiens, evolving in a different species of human in Africa some 300,000 years ago.
Advertisement

The conclusion of all this is that color lines are, in essence, meaningless. Our skin color is the result of many, many different genes which work together in different combinations to produce different colors of skin. Many of those genes are shared across racial, cultural, and geographic boundaries.
These new studies of skin color also suggest a second theme: In genetics, the vast majority of data has been gathered from Northern Eurasian populations, and that in turn has created a biased and incomplete portrait of how the genetics of things like skin color really work.
“There’s been so little research done outside of European populations,” said Brenn. “We wanted to see if our models would apply to other populations. It turns out it doesn’t.”


The Earth happens to be located in one of the weirdest places imaginable: the Universe. Like, whatever this Universe is and whatever rules it follows, we puny humans still struggle to understand it. But we’re really trying to—and we can’t seem to agree.
China’s Dark Matter Particle Explorer satellite (DAMPE or “Wukong” in China) is reporting the results of a year-and-a-half of space-staring, measuring the mysterious, high-energy electrons blasting Earth from space. The experiment has directly detected something that some similar experiments have hinted at, but others haven’t: a sudden drop-off in the electrons hitting the satellite. Whatever is going on, it’s weird.
Advertisement

This change, called a spectral break, “confirms the evidence found by previous indirect measurements,” and “clarifies the behavior” of the high energy electrons, according to the paper published yesterday in Nature.
Science writes that the experiment is important as “China’s first mission dedicated to astrophysics” and “shows that the country is set to become a force in space science,” paraphrasing Physicist David Spergel at Princeton.
DAMPE counts the electrons and their antiparticles, positrons, hitting Earth from space. If you peep a graph of the number of electrons hitting the satellite versus their energy, the quantity decreases as the energy increases. But starting around 0.9 tera-electron volt (TeV) electrons, those that have almost two million times the energy of everyday, lowest-energy electrons, DAMPE spotted hints of a mysterious drop-off. This “edge-like” change could possibly be the result of nearby pulsars or even dark matter.
But is this apparent edge real? It’s hard to say. Physicist Wim de Boer from the Karlsruhe Institute for Technology in Germany noted that the Calorimetric Electron Telescope (CALET) on the International Space Station doesn’t seem to observe this edge at high energy, nor does the experiment de Boer works on, the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer, also on the ISS. But Spergel told Gizmodo the uncertainties in all of these experiments are too large to say anything conclusive.
There simply isn’t a lot of data for the electrons with the highest energies, and a lot of places where the experiments differ in the way they analyze the data or potential sources of error. As always, more data will lead to a better understanding of the situation.
As to whether there are hints of dark matter afoot, “I don’t think dark matter should be at these high energies,” or at least, that’s the popular belief, said De Boer—and for now, he doesn’t know how to interpret the break. But more in-depth analyses of the specific types of particles, like electrons versus their antiparticles, positrons, could also help tease out the details of the story.
Advertisement

We have many experiments in which scientists can’t agree on what they’re seeing within all that strange stuff hitting Earth from outer space—or even if they have enough data to disagree. But there’s still hope that some explanation for “dark matter,” whatever it may be, is out there.
[Nature]


The scale of the opioid crisis gripping the United States is hard to fathom. Since 2000, lethal overdoses from opioid use have tripled, and the problem is so widespread Centers for Disease Control researchers have concluded it is dragging down the national life expectancy. Though President Donald Trump has declared the epidemic a national public health emergency, he had not until Wednesday appointed an official to coordinate the major federal response experts say is needed to fight the problem.
That the official he settled on is Kellyanne Conway should tell you everything you need to know about how little actual thought this administration has put into solving the crisis.
Advertisement

Per BuzzFeed, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced Conway—a pollster and Trump confidante best known for repeatedly lying to the public and who has no medical or public health experience—will be overseeing the White House’s opioid control efforts. As Conway takes the reins, the BuzzFeed report noted, the White House has left the Office of National Drug Control Policy’s leadership role empty, failed to release any written opioid-control strategy, and has not requested funds to refill a depleted national public health emergency fund that currently sits at just $66,000.
What will Conway bring to the table? Per the New York Times’ Maggie Haberman, assisting New Jersey Governor Chris Christie push through a commission report detailing how to fight opioid abuse has been part of her portfolio for some time. Christie’s report described the steps needed as relatively simple, per BuzzFeed, including limiting over-prescriptions, blocking Chinese fentanyl exports, and distributing naloxone, a drug that can stop fatal overdoses, to communities.
But as Quartz noted, Conway’s public record of statements on the issue is sparse and far from encouraging. She’s characterized opioids as a “war,” said the “best way to stop people dying from overdoses and drug abuse is by not starting in the first place,” and suggested that individual “will” was as important as funding while defending Medicaid cuts.
Later, Politico’s Sarah Karlin-Smith reported, the White House even dialed back expectations of how much time Conway will really be devoting to the issue.

While the administration has paid lip service to the role of the health care system in saving lives impacted by opioid abuse, they’ve also proposed cuts to the ONDCP and cuts to grants intended to help workers displaced by the crisis. Republicans are clearly eyeing paying for their oncoming tax cut package with future cuts to health care programs for low-income people like Medicaid, and as the New York Times noted, if that bill passes projections show 13 million could lose health insurance as Obamacare premiums rise 10 percent. There’s been little to nothing from the administration about expanding access to naloxone, which could save thousands of lives.
Advertisement

As Think Progress noted, Sessions’ speech on Wednesday instead emphasized diverting millions of dollars to law enforcement, consistent with Trump’s preference for heavy-handed police tactics and dated “Just Say No”-style advertising. While police have a role to play, the administration seems more interested in pretending that scientifically debunked War on Drugs-style enforcement will be enough to offset the lack of federal resources they’re actually committing on the treatment and prevention side.
In other words, Trump’s administration is still fumbling its response to the problem at a time when it’s getting worse. At least 59,000 people and possibly as many as 65,000 people died from drug overdoses in 2016, per the Times, a staggering increase of 19 percent over the prior estimate of 52,404 in 2015. All we’re likely to get out of Conway is grandstanding exaggerations of how well Trump and crew are handling the problem, which is tantamount to it continuing to get worse.
“Stemming overdose deaths will take a broad interagency approach led by someone with a singular focus and extensive knowledge of the drivers of—and solutions to—the epidemic,” former ONDCP official Regina LaBelle told BuzzFeed. “Therefore, a Senate confirmed Director of National Drug Control Policy should lead this effort.”
[BuzzFeed]


Let’s say you are a British penis-having sex-doer who has trouble with the whole erection thing but you don’t want to talk to a doctor about it. Good news: You’ll soon be able to buy Viagra over the counter. Incredible!
The British Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) announced that anyone over the age of 18 with erectile dysfunction could buy Viagra starting next spring. It still requires a discussion with some human (other than the one you are doing sex with) of course:
If marketed, the medicine will be sold from pharmacies following a discussion with the pharmacist. Pharmacists will be able to determine whether treatment is appropriate for the patient and can give advice on erectile dysfunction, usage of the medicine, potential side effects, and if further consultation with a general practitioner is required.
The release continues that those at high cardiovascular risk, liver failure, severe kidney failure, or those taking certain medications (like those containing nitrates) will still need to discuss their Viagra use with their doctors.
Advertisement

Viagra, for those few of you who may not be aware, is a pill that helps the body engorge penis tissue with blood to help the taker engage in certain sexual acts. The tablets consist of the chemical sildenafil citrate, once studied for its help with high blood pressure until its makers realized it would probably be better suited for erectile dysfunction.
In the United States, something like 30 million people suffer from erectile dysfunction but require a prescription to take Viagra. It’s frequently counterfeited—and it’s possible that something like three-quarters of the Viagra purchased online is counterfeit, reported Forbes a few years ago.
The MHRA report states that, if the medicine was more easily available, some ED sufferers might look for legitimate Viagra and not potentially fake online options.
I reached out and asked Pfizer, the company that produces Viagra, if it has any plans with regards to the United States. I’ll update the post when I hear back.
But in the meantime, if you happen to be in the UK and are having some penis problems, I pray this makes things a little less awkward.
[MHRA via the BBC]
Update 4:45PM: A Pfizer spokesperson sent Gizmodo the following email:
While we do not have information to share on specific [prescripton] to OTC switch programs in the United States, generally we consider prescription drugs—both within the Pfizer portfolio and outside it—for potential switch to non-prescription status. Our objective is to provide consumers with significantly greater access to medicines with well-established efficacy and safety profiles without a prescription.
So...who knows.


As a science reporter, I’m a supplement skeptic. I know most supplements don’t work and that lax regulations mean that supplement makers sometimes put out products that are poor quality or even unsafe.
And yet, ever since my hair stylist mentioned to me a few years ago that she’s noticed clients who take biotin really do see their hair grow faster and stronger, I’ve religiously popped a biotin capsule every day. It was unlikely that the vitamin did anything, I told myself, but it was also unlikely to harm. A scant chance of stronger hair and nails seemed worth the relatively low cost. I know many similarly supplement-skeptical women who do the same.
Advertisement

It turns out, though, that there may indeed be risk associated with taking biotin, aside from those typically associated with taking poorly regulated supplements. This week, the FDA issued a warning that it can interfere with the results of certain medical tests.
“Biotin in blood or other samples taken from patients who are ingesting high levels of biotin in dietary supplements can cause clinically significant incorrect lab test results,” the agency warned in its statement. “The FDA has seen an increase in the number of reported adverse events, including one death, related to biotin interference with lab tests.”
Biotin, sometimes also known as vitamin H, is a B complex vitamin found commonly in multivitamins (especially those for women), supplements for hair, skin, and nail growth, and prenatal vitamins. The issue is that those products can contain biotin levels up to  650 times higher than the recommended daily intake.
The FDA notes that recently there has been an increase in the number of reports that the popular supplement has skewed test results, causing falsely high or falsely low results depending on the test. Many lab tests use biotin technology as part of the test because it can bond with specific proteins that can be measured to detect certain health conditions. It’s often used in hormone tests and tests for markers of cardiac health. In one case, the FDA said, biotin seems to have interfered with a test for troponin, a biomarker used in the diagnosis of heart attacks. A falsely low troponin test resulted in a missed diagnosis in a patient taking high levels of biotin and the patient died.
The agency has released new recommendations for doctors, lab personnel, and consumers. It urges consumers to talk to their doctor about supplements they may be taking, and be aware that some supplements may have high levels of biotin even if those levels are not clearly labeled.
In the mean time, the best advice might be to just quit wasting your money on supplements.


A new report from the US Centers for Disease Control shows that, while detection rates are improving, a surprising number of Americans live with HIV for a protracted period of time before it gets diagnosed—including patients who’ve visited their doctor.
In 2015, the average time it took a person in the US to get a diagnosis after contracting an HIV infection was about three years, according to a new Vital Signs report put out yesterday by the CDC. Back in 2011, that statistic was three years and seven months, so detection rates are improving.
Advertisement

“These findings are more encouraging signs that the tide continues to turn on our nation’s HIV epidemic,” said CDC director Brenda Fitzgerald  in a statement. “HIV is being diagnosed more quickly, the number of people who have the virus under control is up, and annual infections are down.”
But while things are steadily improving in this area, there’s still plenty of room for improvement. In 2015, nearly 40,000 people in the United States received an HIV diagnosis. Of them, half had lived with the disease for three years or more before they knew it, and a quarter lived with the disease for seven years before they finally got a diagnosis. One in five saw their HIV advance to the most advanced stage—AIDS—before a diagnosis. In 2014, around 1.1 million people in the US had HIV.
When it comes to HIV, early detection is critical—both in terms of prevention and treatment. Medicines allow people who have the virus to live a long and healthy life. And by taking the appropriate precautions, infected individuals can actively protect their partners from contracting HIV. As the CDC points out, two out of every five new HIV infections are caused by a person who didn’t even realize they had the disease.
In terms of recommendations, the CDC says doctors should test all patients between the ages of 13 to 64 for HIV at least once in their lifetime. Patients at higher risk should be tested at least once a year (people at high risk include sexually active gay and bisexual men, people who inject drugs, and heterosexuals who have sex with someone who’s at risk for or has HIV), and it’s not unreasonable for doctors to test some high risk patients every three to six months.
“Ideally, HIV is diagnosed within months of infection, rather than years later,” said Eugene McCray, director of CDC’s Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, in a statement. “Further increasing regular HIV testing and closing testing, diagnoses and treatment gaps is essential to stopping HIV in our communities.”
Encouragingly, the new report shows that the percentage of people at increased risk for HIV who reported getting an HIV test during the previous year has gone up—but the CDC says too few are being tested. Patients who said they didn’t get an HIV test during the past year included nearly 30 percent of gay and bisexual men, 42 percent of people who injected drugs, and nearly 60 percent of at-risk heterosexuals. Discouragingly, seven in 10 people at high risk visited their healthcare provider during the past year but weren’t administered an HIV test. The CDC is trying to reduce these “missed opportunities.”
Advertisement

The CDC also discovered that the time it takes to get diagnosed varies by risk group and by race/ethnicity. Amongst those who inject drugs, it takes about five years for heterosexual males, and about 2.5 years for heterosexual females, to get diagnosed. It takes, on average, about three years for gay and bisexual men to get an HIV diagnosis. White Americans get diagnosed after about two years, African Americans and Latinos around three years, and Asian Americans around four years.
As the CDC points out, it’s important for at-risk individuals to get tested often, but healthcare providers need to do their part as well. “Talk to all your patients about HIV. Tell them HIV testing is a routine part of a patient’s healthcare,” writes the CDC. “Have the conversation about HIV risk. Don’t assume you know a patient’s risk.”
[CDC Vital Signs]


There’s a nebulous concept that’s floating around the public conscious, called quantum advantage or quantum supremacy. One of these days, someone is going to boldly declare that they’ve created a quantum computer that can solve some complex problem that a regular computer can’t.
That said, quantum supremacy probably won’t be a single event. More likely it will be a slow process, beginning with a specialized quantum computer solving an incredibly esoteric problem, then progressing to increasingly important problems. While they’re not touting “quantum supremacy” officially, two teams of scientists are announcing that their quantum simulators—advanced quantum computers with very specialized scientific purposes—have made some real scientific discoveries.
Advertisement

“In a way, we already have entered the regime of quantum supremacy,” Mikhail Lukin, physics professor from Harvard told Gizmodo. “What we report in our work is really one of the first discoveries made with a quantum machine.”
Brief quantum computing explanation: A computer is a machine that solves problems by manipulating a huge number of bits, physical systems with two possible options like an on-off switch. A qubit is as if that switch was on or off with some probability while it’s performing a calculation—it’s both on and off at the same time. That switch (or qubit) then takes on a fixed value once the user looks at it. The quantum computer imparts the switch with the probabilities, then solves problems by making the switches talk to one another, kind of like tying them together.
They will never sit on your desk, and they will most certainly never fit in your pocket. Today,…
There are several ways to represent these switches—all you need is a tiny system that obeys the rules of quantum mechanics with two possible states. Companies like IBM and Google are pursuing specially-fabricated, ultra-cold superconducting electronic systems. These two new teams instead trap atoms with a system of lasers. They can use the lasers to assign the specific properties to the atoms, then allow the system to change over time to simulate some problem. Each trapped atom is a qubit, and in this case, one team at Maryland created a different system with 53 qubits, and the other at Harvard, MIT and CalTech created one based on a different physical principle with 51 qubits, according to a pair of papers published today in Nature.
Both systems use trapped atoms, but the way each represents the two potential qubit states are different. In the Harvard/MIT/CalTech machine, the first state is an atom with an electron close to the center, the nucleus, while the second is an atom with a very far away electron. The Maryland one relies on ions (an atom missing electrons), their spins (an innate property whose equations look a lot like those of real world spinning), and an added force supplied by the lasers.
These aren’t the general quantum computers that some think may one day crack the mechanism used to encrypt your passwords. They’re very specific quantum simulators with very specific functions. “These are esoteric problems that we have solved,” said Christopher Monroe, physics professor at the University of Maryland. “In our case we mapped out a phase diagram [how the properties of the system change based on the inputs] of a toy model of magnetism.” Lukin’s team modeled how heat spreads through a specific kind of atomic system. “At the time, what we observed was completely unexpected,” he said.
51 and 53 qubits is definitely the lead for these types of systems. These trapped atom systems stay coherent for longer than the kind of quantum computers that IBM and Google are working on, meaning they take longer for their qubits to collapse into regular bits. But there are other factors when it comes to discussing how good a quantum computer is, including how easy they are to scale up and how much control there is over the qubits and which other qubits they talk to. Researchers everywhere are looking to improve all of these aspects.
Advertisement

This announcement is still a big deal on several of those fronts. “They’re an important step in the development of quantum technologies, in particular for quantum simulation,” Christine Muschik from the Institute for Quantum Computing at the University of Waterloo in Canada told Gizmodo. “These two experiments really mark an achievement where one has a fairly large number of qubits and at the same time, able to control them pretty well.”
It will take a long time before more general quantum computers turn up. Because of the short coherence times, it can take something like a thousand physical qubits to represent a single qubit resistant to errors, the kind that would be used to make calculations. For now, these computers are best suited for physical simulations and optimization problems, explained Lukin.
Ultimately Monroe (who co-founded a startup called IonQ) thinks companies like Google and IBM are overlooking these trapped atom systems. But he thinks that there will be room for several different kinds of physical quantum computers. “There’s room for CDs, magnetic hard drives and tapes,” he said. “I think the same will happen in quantum computing.
[Nature, Nature]


The oceans’s deepest point is Challenger Deep, a chasm almost 11000 meters (36,200 feet) below the surface. Few fish species can stand this dark, hostile environment—but scientists have identified one that flourishes.
Meet the Mariana snailfish or Pseudoliparis swirei, the deepest fish species collected from the ocean floor. Scientists netted samples from 7,966 meters (26,135 feet) at the deepest, but their video spotted some as deep as 8,098 meters (26,569 feet)—and recently, a Japanese team spotted one at 8,178 meters (26,830 feet). That’s real deep.
Advertisement

There’s been talk about a new species living this deep since a 2014 visit to the trench. But now, this slimy boogerboy has an official name.
Scientists exploring the deepest place on Earth — the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean — have…
The fish has a fleshy colored body with transparent skin through which its organs and muscles are visible. Some bigger ones have dark spots on their heads. Scientists at the University of Hawaii, Newcastle University and the University of Washington spotted it on several research trips from 2014 to 2017, pulling up 37 specimens on a mission using the R/V Falkor research vessel. The fish is named for Herbert Swire, HMS Challenger officer credited with discovering the Mariana Trench.

The fish may look fairly fetal, but they’re the top predator down in the trench where there’s little competition to feed on the invertebrates, according to a University of Washington statement. They team published the paper announcing the discovery yesterday in the journal Zootaxa.
It’s not a surprise that this slippery snailfish lives so deep—snailfish do occasionally get caught on film down there including similar species like Pseudoliparis amblystomopsis. DNA analysis determined that P. swirei was a different species all along.
Nice to meet you, Mariana snailfish. Have fun down there.
[Zootaxa via the University of Washington]
Correction: This story previously used an outdated depth of the Challenger Deep. The number has been updated with the corrected value.


You can try as hard as you want, but you’ll never be as cool an uncle as ex-NASA JPL engineer Mark Rober. Using elaborate experiments, he makes learning about science even more entertaining than Bill Nye did, and his latest invention is a sand-filled hot tub that somehow still behaves like water you can swim in.
The hot tub uses the same science as this story from a few months ago, where the fluidization effect occurs when sand is pumped full of air.
The playground you frequented as a kid was probably blanketed in sand to help soften the impact…
As the air works its way up from pipes at the bottom of the hot tub, it makes its way in-between all the granules of sand, reducing the friction and causing the mixture to behave like water. Lighter objects will float atop the sand, while heavier and denser ones will sink right to the bottom. At least until the air supply is stopped, at which point the sand locks into place, trapping everything in it.
[YouTube]



A host of DNA samples “strongly suggest” that yetis are, in fact, local Himalayan bears. Watch out, bigfoot.
An international team of researchers took a look at bear and supposed yeti DNA samples to better pinpoint the origin of the mythological creature. The researcher’s results imply that yetis were hardly paranormal or even strange, but the results also helped paint a better picture of the bears living in the Himalayas.
Advertisement

“Even if we didn’t discover a strange new hybrid species of bear or some ape-like creature, it was exciting to me that it gave us the opportunity to learn more about bears in this region as they are rare and little genetic data had been published previously,” study author Charlotte Lindqvist, biology professor from the University of Buffalo in New York, told Gizmodo.
The yeti, or abominable snowman, is a sort of wild, ape-like hominid that’s the subject of long-standing Himalayan mythology. Scientists have questioned prior research suggesting that purported yeti hair samples came from a strange polar bear hybrid or a new species, though. The analysis “did not rule out the possibility that the samples belonged to brown bear,” according to the paper published today in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B.
Lindqvist and her team analyzed DNA from 24 different bear or purported yeti samples from the wild and museums, including feces, hair, skin, and bone. They were definitely all bears—and the yeti samples seemed to match up well with exiting Himalayan brown bears. “This study represents the most rigorous analysis to date of samples suspected to derive from anomalous or mythical ‘hominid’-like creatures,” the paper concludes, “strongly suggesting the biological basis of the yeti legend as local brown and black bears.”
Researcher Ross Barnett from Durham University in the United Kingdom who investigates ancient DNA in felids, told Gizmodo that he found the study convincing and would not have done much differently. He pointed out that the study could have benefitted from more data on other brown bear populations, or species that recently went extinct like the Atlas bear. But still, “I hope other groups take advantage of the great dataset these authors have created” to help understand how brown bears ended up distributed around the world in the way that they did, he told Gizmodo in an email.
When asked about what a reader’s takeaway should be—and whether this diluted the local folklore—the study author Lindqvist said she didn’t think so. “Science can help explore such myths—and their biological roots—but I am sure they will still live on and continue to be important in any culture,” she said.
And it’s not like the study rules out the existence of some paranormal yeti creature completely. “Even if there are no proof for the existence of cryptids, it is impossible to completely rule out that they live or have ever lived where such myths exist—and people love mysteries!”
[Proceedings of the Royal Society B]


It can be easy to take hyped-up science papers as fact, especially when they involve the most esoteric imaginable ideas. But scientists are taking issue with a hyped-up new paper that claims it can eliminate the need for dark matter or dark energy in our Universe.
Observations of our Universe imply that something like 95 percent of it is comprised of mysterious stuff. The math says it could be explained by an invisible mass called dark matter, and energy causing the Universe’s expansion to speed up called dark energy. Here on Earth, no one has directly detected what dark matter and dark energy are made of, which is causing some worry. That includes a new, widely-shared paper proposing an alternative idea. The paper says that one of the problems that is solved by the presence of dark matter and dark energy—the difference between how a galaxy should rotate according to the laws of physics and how galaxies rotate according to our observations—could instead be solved by tweaking the mathematics scientists have developed to explain the behavior of space and time. Lots of scientists think that this flawed idea didn’t deserve the hype.
Advertisement

The paper’s hype probably stems from how the internet disseminates science news. The hubbub began with an uncritical press release from the University of Geneva about research from their scientist André Maeder. Perhaps, Maeder proposes, one of the core tenets of Albert Einstein’s theory of general relativity are wrong under certain conditions—in large voids where there isn’t any mass. Maybe, he proposes, reconsidering the mathematics governing the very fabric of the shape of space will eliminate the need for dark matter and dark energy.
Eliminating the most important topics in physics with some math sounds incredible, so a few news outlets, most notably Newsweek as well as the usual suspects like the Daily Mail and IFLScience, ran with the story without calling outside sources.
If they had, they’d probably have found out that many physicists don’t think Maeder’s idea holds water. Several, including Stanford dark energy physicist Andrei Linde and Yale dark matter physicist Priyamvada Natarajan, told Gizmodo that it wasn’t worth writing about (despite the fact that it ended up in the fairly prestigious Astrophysical Journal). 
Most notably, science blogger and theoretical physicist Sabine Hossenfelder picked apart the paper on her blog, Backreactions. “For those of you who merely want to know whether you should pay attention to this new variant of modified gravity, the answer is no,” she wrote. “The author does not have a consistent theory. The math is wrong.”
Anže Slosar at Brookhaven National Lab confirmed Hossenfelder’s report. In its simplest form, he told Gizmodo, “The main thing that gives it away is that the paper doesn’t contain a ‘Lagrangian.’ A Lagrangian is like a basic mathematical object that defines a theory. We simply don’t know how to do theoretical physics without having a Lagrangian.” He also said that the idea doesn’t make testable predictions, something that many physicists treat as a requirement. More about that here.
Cosmologists are in the business of figuring out how and why we got here. But if you call their…
Natarajan and physicist Jonathan McDowell from the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics both point out that Maeder doesn’t fully explain away some of the other astronomical observations bolstering dark matter, like dark matter in galaxy clusters bending the path of light rays:

For what it’s worth, Maeder agreed that his “equations are underdetermined,” in an email to Gizmodo responding to Hossenfelder’s post. He pointed out that he felt his interpretation of some cosmology’s core tenets revealed interesting new results.
Advertisement

Re-formulating the mathematics Einstein’s theory of general relativity isn’t such a new thing—lots of scientists have considered that maybe we observe dark matter and/or dark energy because something is missing, somewhere. Except no matter what happens, experimental evidence continues to confirm that Einstein’s theory of general relativity is consistent, regardless of what scientists throw at it.

Why did the under-developed theory get so much press? The paper, alongside its flashy headline, was promoted to a large audience via the Phys.org press release aggregator (which does sometimes write original stories). Content mills picked it up without checking whether or not it was worth writing about—or wrote it regardless.

It’s important to challenge the scientific status quo, of course. However, scientific advancement requires evidence, robust mathematical theories, and a cohesiveness that scientists do not think Maeder’s theory offers.
Advertisement

So, for now, dark matter and dark energy are both alive and well. Which is to say, we don’t know what they are—but they’re still mysteries physicists are working to solve.


These days, it’s no surprise to hear about primates controlling a robotic arm with their brains—even paralyzed humans have done it. But how would a brain need to adapt if one of the limbs was missing?
New research from scientists at several US universities hooked some rhesus monkeys up to a robot arm-controlling brain-machine interface. All of the simian subjects had lost one of their arms for therapeutic reasons years prior to the research—two of them as infants, before their arm fully developed. The scientists could see the brains changing in response to learning to use the limbs.
Advertisement

“We have successfully demonstrated that learning to use a cortically-controlled brain-machine interface to perform a complex, sequential task is possible in chronically amputated animals,” the authors write in the study published yesterday in Nature Communications.

The researchers implanted a series of electrodes into the part of the brain that controls the monkeys’ upper limb, the motor cortex, on either the same or opposite side of the amputated limb. (It’s the opposite side that would have controlled the missing arm.)
The team randomly assigned a set of brain cells to control reaching and grasping in the arm, then trained the monkeys to use the arms in ten to twenty sessions. While the monkey with the implant on the opposite side of the brain from the amputated limb figured out the arm faster, both monkeys eventually got the hang of it. But more importantly, the physical makeup of the brain changed as the amputee monkeys learned to control the limb.
“The amputee animal had very few connections [between neurons],” study author Karthikeyan Balasubramanian, University of Chicago researcher, told Gizmodo. “As it was learning, the network became denser and denser.” The non-amputee had to shut down some of its neurons’ connections before controlling the limb, he said. The data also implied that both monkeys would have done better with further training.
One researcher, Miguel Nicolelis from Duke University, was not wowed by the study—he felt it “did not make any substantial new contribution to the field of brain-machine interfaces,” according to an email—he pointed out that prior research has demonstrated that such a task was possible with less-invasive methods. But University of Chicago professor and study author Nicholas Hatsopoulos explained that the study used invasive methods that could potentially provide better control of the prosthetic arm. Further, the researchers watched as the same neurons changed over a period of forty days as the monkeys learned to use the device.
Advertisement

Regardless, the study adds credence to the fact that the brain reorganizes its neurons as it appears to do in this study. And maybe this knowledge could help amputees control robotic arms with a brain device such as this.
[Nature Communications]


Indonesia’s Mount Agung has played a game of will it/won’t it erupt for months with swarms of earthquakes and occasional ash plumes. That game ratcheted up a notch this weekend when much larger ash cloud shot into the atmosphere and lava made its way to the surface.
The dual-colored plume of ash rose up to 30,000 feet into the sky, making for spectacular images, but scientists are still gathering data to see if it will lead to something bigger. If the volcano does become more active, it could do more than cancel flights and incinerate rainforests. It could give the world a brief reprieve from the planetary heat wave of global warming.
Advertisement

The big question is if this weekend’s eruption is a precursor to something on the level of the 1963 eruption that killed 1,000 or if the volcano will lapse back into brooding over the idyllic Balinese landscape. At the moment, Indonesia’s Center for Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation has raised its warning level to red, its highest alert, and evacuated more than 75,000 people living in the volcano’s shadow.
“[It’s] wait and see if it leads to more intense explosive eruptions,” Erik Klemetti, a volcanologist at Denison University, told Earther.
Later on Twitter, he noted that “the eruption at Agung in Indonesia has been relatively small so far, but with lava at the summit crater, it is anyone’s guess how it proceeds from here.”
If it proceeds to a major eruption (and please remember that’s a big if), the effects on the climate could be fairly substantial.
Explosive volcanic eruptions can send ash plumes high into the stratosphere. In the immediate vicinity, the ash can fall back from the sky and cause breathing problems or dangerous mud flows if it mixes with rain. But tiny particles of sulfur dioxide in the plume can also linger in the stratosphere. There, they reflect sunlight back into space and cool the climate for a few years before falling back to Earth.
Large eruptions can also slow other aspects of climate change. Research published last year shows that the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines cooled the oceans enough to momentarily depress sea level rise rates.
Advertisement

But all of these impacts depend on sulphur dioxide reaching the stratosphere. While satellites have shown sulphur dioxide in Agung’s ash cloud, the cloud is only about halfway to the stratosphere at this point. That means its climate impact is negligible so far. But if the ash cloud rises higher and becomes more potent, its climate impacts would be felt fairly quickly.
“Global surface temperature reacts pretty fast to a big volcanic eruption,” Zeke Hausfather, a climate scientist at the University of California, Berkeley and analyst for Carbon Brief, told Earther. “While it would take a few months for the aerosol cloud to spread around the Earth, we’d see maximum cooling set in over a few months after the eruption and slowly fade away over the next five or so years.”

Hausfather conducted an analysis of what a 1963-level eruption would mean for the global average temperature. It shows that the planet would likely cool 0.1-0.2 degrees Celsius with the peak cool period coming around 2019. A weak La Niña that’s expected to last into the spring of next year could have also have a limited chilling effect on the planet.
Advertisement

Of course, “cool” is used relatively. In Hausfather’s analysis, 2019 would be the coolest of the post-Agung eruption years, but it would still rank as one of the five warmest years on record. That’s because Agung’s sulphur dioxide is far outweighed by  the warming influence of all the carbon dioxide humans have added to the atmosphere. It’s like dropping an ice cube into a pot of water boiling on the stove.
Now if the volcano under Yellowstone decides to erupt, that’s another story. But don’t get your hopes up.


The science of how our genes affect our health, our looks and our personality is still pretty mysterious. Even more mysterious: What happens to your DNA after you spit in a test tube and send it to 23andMe or Ancestry to decode your DNA for a not-insignificant fee.
On Sunday, New York Democrat Sen. Chuck Schumer called for more federal scrutiny of the privacy practices of consumer DNA testing companies.
Advertisement

“Here’s what many consumers don’t realize, that their sensitive information can end up in the hands of unknown third-party companies,” Schumer said during a press conference. “There are no prohibitions, and many companies say that they can still sell your information to other companies.”
“Now, this is sensitive information, and what those companies can do with all that data, our sensitive and deepest information, your genetics, is not clear and in some cases not fair and not right,” he added.
Schumer is right. Your genetic code contains extremely sensitive information. Embedded in your genetic data is personal information about your health, personality, and family history. When you spit in a test tube in hopes of finding out whether you’ve got any Viking ancestry, you’re giving up unfettered access to information about what makes you, you.
And, as Gizmodo has previously reported, the breadth of rights you are giving away to your DNA when you spit in that vial is kind of crazy. It’s all there in the fine print: Testing companies can claim ownership of your DNA, allow third parties to access it, and make your DNA vulnerable to hackers.
There’s no evidence to suggest that DNA testing companies have done anything nefarious with anyone’s DNA. But a company wouldn’t even have to for your information to get exposed. 23andMe, for example, sell anonymized data from your genetic code to its research partners, to help put all that genetic data to use looking for cures to diseases. That’s a use most people probably wouldn’t mind. But that research partner could in turn share your anonymized data in a research journal, and it’s possible someone might identify it. Most DNA companies also share genetic data with other third parties for business purposes. The more your information gets shared, the more vulnerable it is to accidental leaks or hacking.
The Food and Drug Administration does regulate consumer DNA tests when the tests are related to health, like the 23andMe tests for disease markers. But that’s as far as any regulation of the consumer testing market goes. Consumer genetic testing firms are not typically bound by HIPAA, which means the flow of your data is basically unregulated.
Advertisement

Schumer said he’s calling on the Federal Trade Commission to “take a serious look at this relatively new kind of service and ensure that these companies can have clear, fair privacy policies.” The companies, he said, are not necessarily “nefarious” but “they are brand new, and they need safeguards.”
Schumer doesn’t call for anything specific, other than that the FTC ensures that DNA testing companies are communicating clearly what might happen to your DNA after you hand it over. But his statement is significant because so far the FTC has largely shied away from stepping in when it comes to consumer DNA tests. It’s the first time the privacy practices of DNA testing companies has gotten attention from Congress.
Schumer’s remarks appear to have been prompted by the massive marketing push by many consumer DNA companies for Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Ancestry, 23andMe, Helix and others were all offering tests at steeply discounted prices. (You might have even noticed advertisements for some of these services on Gizmodo Dot Com.)
Advertisement

“The last gift any of us want to give away this holiday season is our most personal and sensitive information,” he said.
His primary concern, he said, was that the companies can sell and share data without informed consent.
To be fair, 23andMe, Ancestry and others all do disclose most of the things that might happen if you take their test—but only if you actually read all the fine print.
[NBC News]
Update: This story has been updated to clarify what information 23andMe sells to research partners.


Every day it seems another natural disaster could bring about the apocalypse. Volcanoes. Earthquakes. Hurricanes. Sometimes that list includes asteroids. But despite exaggerated headlines from the usual suspects, there’s no need to worry about the latest nearby asteroid approach.
(3200) Phaethon is a rock five kilometers in diameter with an oblong orbit that intersects Earth. It’s scheduled to make a nearby approach on December 16th. You’ll probably hear more fear-mongering shouting about it until then, but it’s not a rock you should worry about during your lifetime.
Advertisement

Scientists first discovered (3200) Phaethon in 1983, according to a NASA-Jet Propulsion Laboratory data sheet. Its eccentric crosses our own planet’s orbit, putting humanity in a pretty precarious place. It’s been classified as a “Potentially Hazardous Asteroid” for that reason. But the name is a tad misleading.
“[Potentially Hazardous Asteroid] is not a very good term because it implies that things are going to come crashing into us right away,” Matthew Holman, interim director of the International Astronomical Union’s Minor Planet Center told Gizmodo. “It’s over long periods of time—basically, this is more of a plausibility thing.”
Holman went on to explain that “Orbits of asteroids are changing on the timescale of hundreds or thousands of years, perhaps longer. It’s really not a statement about urgency. It’s a statement of plausibility—it’s something that could ever have a collision trajectory towards Earth.”
Holman didn’t speak directly to (3200) Phaethon, but discussed that scientists study these things closely. The community tracks and models the orbits of any potentially dangerous rocks, like they did for 99942 Apophis which briefly caused a scare about a decade ago. Scientists at agencies designed to worry about these things such as NASA would tell you if (3200) Phaethon was truly a threat.
The rock will pass a little less than 6,500,000 miles from the Earth on December 16th, around a fifth of the distance from Earth to Mars at its closest. Mars is very far away—but you still might be able to observe the asteroid with a telescope. The next time it will come any closer is 2093 when it will pass around 1.85 million miles away—still seven times further than the moon. You will most likely be dead by then.
(3200) Phaethon is still neat and strange. It produces a meteor shower here on Earth called the Geminids, but normally it’s comets, not asteroids, that cause these events. There are a few theories as to why that might be, but it’s still a mystery.
Advertisement

Anyway, take a breather and enjoy the holiday season. There is no need to worry about an asteroid.
Update 12:15pm: We spoke to Gareth Williams, astrophysicist from the Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, for a little more detail. Determining whether a large meteor will strike is never an easy yes-or-no answer, he said. As soon as an asteroid is discovered, there’s a large, uncertain region where scientists think it will travel, a region that may or may not include Earth. After subsequent observations, that region will become smaller, and an impact is ruled out once Earth is outside of that region.
But scientists have already modeled this new meteor pretty well. “(3200) Phaethon is not an object we need to worry about at this time,” said Williams. “Over tens of thousands of years the orbits will be perturbed by giant planets and the Earth, so the orbit could come closer.”
Advertisement

So we might not know a lot, but in this case, we know this meteor is not a big deal.


Authorities evacuated tens of thousands of people from 224 points on the Indonesian island of Bali this weekend after the eruption of Mount Agung, which spewed gigantic clouds of potentially life-threatening ash into the atmosphere, CNN reported.
Up to 7,000 air passengers are stranded on the island at the main Bali airport of Ngurah Rai, while Indonesia’s Center for Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation raised its aviation alert status from orange to its highest possible red status, signifying extreme hazards to aircraft. According to CNN, the Indonesian National Disaster Management Agency estimates the cloud was at least 4,000 meters (13,120 feet) tall, though the Australian Bureau of Meteorology later estimated a height of 7,600 meters (24,930 feet).
According to the BBC, increased volcanic activity this year sparked fears of an imminent full-scale eruption involving magma flows, costing “at least $110m in tourism and productivity during the major evacuation.” Per NPR, volcanologist Gede Suantika told Reuters “The activity of Mount Agung has entered the magmatic eruption phase, it is still spewing ash at the moment, but we need to monitor and be cautious over the possibility of a strong, explosive eruption.”
Advertisement

The New York Times estimated about 75,000 people have been evacuated so far in total, while residents and visitors have been instructed to stay at least four miles away from the volcano. Government officials are insistent that the island remains safe for now outside of the area immediately surrounding Mount Agung.
The last recorded eruption of Mount Agung in 1963 happened to coincide with a Balinese Hindu ritual performed once every hundred years, according to Oregon State University. When the volcano began to erupt just days after the ritual, an estimated 50 million cubic meters of magma flowed from the peak. Pressure continued build until weeks later, when a massive explosion occurred:
The sub-plinian eruption was so strong, it was estimated that the top 100 m had been blown off, creating an eruption column almost 10 km high, which collapsed to form devastating pyroclastic flows. These pyroclastic flows travelled east and south at over 60 km/hr, wiping out several villages and causing the death of over 1000 people.
Many Balinese believed the eruption, and particularly the survival of the temple where the ritual was performed, was a bad omen.
However, according to Phys.org, while scientists believe Mount Agung will continue to smoke for up to a month or more, a similar eruption is not considered particularly likely now.
[CNN]


61-year-old stuntman and amateur Flat Earth theory researcher “Mad” Mike Hughes, who planned to launch himself some 1,800 feet up at 500 miles per hour in an untested homemade steam-powered rocket over the Mojave Desert ghost town of Amboy, California on Saturday in some sort of gambit to prove the Earth is flat (spoilers: it’s not), will not be doing any of that that this weekend.
Instead, Hughes told the Washington Post, Big Daddy Government has thrown a few obstacles in his way. Per the Post, the Bureau of Land Management has confirmed it had no record of giving Hughes “verbal permission” to hold the rocket launch on public lands as he had previously claimed, meaning that the rocketeer has decided to delay the launch date and move the location “three miles down the road.”

“I don’t see [the launch] happening until about Tuesday, honestly,” Hughes told the Post. “It takes three days to set up... You know, it’s not easy because it’s not supposed to be easy.”
Advertisement

“Someone from our local office reached out to him after seeing some of these news articles [about the launch], because that was news to them,” BLM spokesperson Samantha Storms told the paper.
It’s not the first time Hughes has planned to launch himself into the sky in a homemade rocket—a prior attempt in 2014 earned himself injuries from intense G-forces and a rough landing—but as the Post noted, he’s only recently become a Flat Earth convert  “after struggling for months to raise funds.” Hence the “RESEARCH FLAT EARTH” slogan on the side of his rocket, and Hughes’ plans to launch himself progressively higher into the sky if Saturday’s planned event was a non-lethal success.
In a Kickstarter post from 2016, Hughes wrote “Mad Mike Hughes always wanted to be famous. So much that he decided ‘What can I do to become and instant super star dare devil?’ So he decided to break the world record for the longest ramp jump in the world ... He is the current world record holder for a ramp rocket jump, but he wants to shatter that record on February 12th 2016 (Just 1 day before his 60th birthday).”
While crowdfunding only raised him $310 of his $150,000 goal then, the Flat Earth connection later helped him raise $8,000 of the eventual $20,000 it cost to build the rocket.

However, the BLM decision seems to have bought Hughes some time before the potentially deadly manned test of his DIY scalding steam missile—time which he apparently does not intend to use to reconsider whether this is a good idea.
Advertisement

“I don’t believe in science,” Hughes previously told the Associated Press. “I know about aerodynamics and fluid dynamics and how things move through the air, about the certain size of rocket nozzles, and thrust. But that’s not science, that’s just a formula. There’s no difference between science and science fiction.”
[Washington Post]


A new simulation produced by NASA’s Data Visualization Studio packs four months of swirling atmospheric activity into a two minute clip that reminds us how unrelenting this past hurricane season really was.
This looks like a timelapse pieced together from images taken by satellites, but it’s not. Rather, it’s a computer simulation based on real data. Specifically, the model is showing the progression of  aerosols—wafts of sea salt, dust, and smoke—blowing through the atmosphere from July 31 to November 1, 2017. This visualization was churned out by the Goddard Earth Observing System (GEOS), a system of math models developed by the Global Modeling and Assimilation Office (GMAO) at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center.

What’s particularly neat about this video is that the hurricanes kind of appear by accident. Hurricanes aren’t aerosols, but because the NASA scientists were tracking the stuff carried by wind around the atmosphere, they were able to visualize the various storm systems as they moved across the Atlantic. NASA explains:
During the 2017 hurricane season, the storms are visible because of the sea salt that is captured by the storms. Strong winds at the surface lift the sea salt into the atmosphere and the particles are incorporated into the storm. Hurricane Irma is the first big storm that spawns off the coast of Africa. As the storm spins up, the Saharan dust is absorbed in cloud droplets and washed out of the storm as rain. This process happens with most of the storms, except for Hurricane Ophelia. Forming more northward than most storms, Ophelia traveled to the east picking up dust from the Sahara and smoke from large fires in Portugal. Retaining its tropical storm state farther northward than any system in the Atlantic, Ophelia carried the smoke and dust into Ireland and the UK.
It’s a gorgeous simulation for sure, but scientists can use models like these to understand all the different things that go on in our atmosphere and how they all fit together to produce weather.
[NASA Data Visualization Studio]


It’s never a nice feeling to watch a fly land on your next bite of food, but as new research shows, you may be justified in wanting to toss that delicious morsel in the garbage.
New research published in Scientific Reports shows that two common flies—houseflies and blowflies—are capable of carrying hundreds of different bacteria—a good portion of which are harmful to humans. Flies are born from fecal matter and rot, so this isn’t a complete surprise, but it’s the first study to analyze the gut contents of these insects in detail, and evaluate the ability of flies to carry and deliver germs. Flies like to hang around humans, as we’re all painfully aware, so these findings are a bit troublesome.
Advertisement

“We believe that this may show a mechanism for pathogen transmission that has been overlooked by public health officials, and flies may contribute to the rapid transmission of pathogens in outbreak situations,” Donald Bryant, co-author of the new study and a professor at Penn State, said in a press release.
For the study, the researchers analyzed the microbiome of 116 houseflies and blowflies from three different continents. In addition to detecting and characterizing the host of germs found within the flies’ stomachs, the researchers also looked at the microbial content of individual body parts, finding that the legs were responsible for transferring most of the microbial organisms from one surface to another.
“The legs and wings show the highest microbial diversity in the fly body, suggesting that bacteria use the flies as airborne shuttles,” said study co-author Stephan Schuster. “It may be that bacteria survive their journey, growing and spreading on a new surface. In fact, the study shows that each step of hundreds that a fly has taken leaves behind a microbial colony track, if the new surface supports bacterial growth.”
Which, yuck. In 15 cases, traces of the human pathogen Helicobacter pylori—the blight that causes ulcers in the human gut—were found on blowflies taken from Brazil. Prior to this study, scientists had never even considered flies as a possible vector for this disease.
Advertisement

The researchers also learned that blowflies and houseflies are very similar in terms of their stomach contents, sharing over 50 percent of their microbiome—an unholy mixture of microorganisms that the flies pick up from their surroundings. Interestingly, flies collected from farm stables had fewer germs than those collected from urban environments.
“It will really make you think twice about eating that potato salad that’s been sitting out at your next picnic,” said Bryant. “It might be better to have that picnic in the woods, far away from urban environments, not a central park.”
[Scientific Reports]


There’s a good reason it’s so difficult for photographers and film crews to capture the elusive snow leopard  in the wild. The animal’s not only a master of stealth, it also sports a patterned fur coat that turns it nearly invisible in its natural habitat. Can you find the big cat sneaking up on its prey in this amazing photo by wildlife photographer Inger Vandyke?
If it makes it easier, here’s a higher resolution version of the same photo, which was snapped by Vandyke during a 17-day mountain expedition in Ladakh, India, a few years ago, where she was fortunate enough to spot the snow leopard stalking and attacking an unsuspecting group of bharal, also known as blue sheep.
Still can’t spot the predator? It’s a good thing you’re not one of these sheep. They’ve got the requisite speed and agility to escape a snow leopard once it reveals itself. You, on the other hand, would be a slow and satisfying meal. Here’s where the snow leopard is hiding:
[Inger Vandyke via The Telegraph]


In 1991, scientists lowered 10 speakers into the water off of a remote Australian island in order to blast a monotonous 57 hertz tone from them for 10 days. Other researchers listened for the distant sound at 15  monitoring stations in ocean basins around the world. This was all being done in the name of science—specifically, to better understand the processes driving climate change.
Scientists have been taking the planet’s temperature for decades using thermometers, satellites, and other methods to track just how much carbon emissions have heated it up. But there’s a problem with those measurements: They only gather information about the surface. It’s like feeling your forehead when you’re sick rather than putting a thermometer under your tongue.
Advertisement

Understanding just how much the whole planetary system is heating up is a crucial piece of the scientific big picture, particularly if we want to know if climate change has any nasty surprises in store.
The 1991 sound experiment was cut off by a powerful storm that destroyed most of the speakers, but still proved wildly successful. “It was a seminal experiment,” Bruce Howe, an acoustic oceanographer at the University of Hawaii, told Earther. “It absolutely showed what it set out to do.”
Despite its success, the researchers’ dream of using acoustics to routinely measure global warming has yet to be realized.
The planet has been warming ever since humans started pouring carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Thanks to thermometers and ocean surface measurements around the world, we basically know how much: About one degree Celsius, as of earlier this week.
We also know this increase would be two or three times higher without the oceans. They take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere, which helps reduce its warming impact, though it does make seas more acidic. The oceans also absorb a lot of the excess heat that works down through the water column.
That’s the global warming we never really see. But it’s still having a profound effect on the world, either through altering marine ecosystems or ocean currents. These changes can have knock on effects on storm systems, sea levels, and fisheries, all things that matter to us here on land.
There’s a network of floats around the world that dive below the ocean surface and take ocean temperature measurements to go with the thermometer measurements we have on the surface of our planet. But there’s no one clear metric to measure all the planetary heat.
Advertisement

It’s with all that in mind that Walter Munk, a renowned oceanographer at the Scripps Institution for Oceanography who celebrated his 100th birthday this year, conceived of his plan to blast the ocean with a low frequency sound. The idea is grounded in a few simple concepts.
The first is that as water warms, sound travels through it faster. Munk estimated that the speed of sound increases by five meters per second for every one degree Celsius of warming. Salinity can also play a role, but temperature has by far the biggest impact. If you’re regularly monitoring sound in the ocean, you can in theory monitor how much the water is warming.
The second is that sound propagates a long ways underwater. In 1960, scientists detonated 200-lb. and 300-lb. charges off the shores of Perth. The sound waves were detected on the other side of the world in Bermuda. That’s a wild story for another time but suffice to say, point proven. For Munk, that meant if you set up listening stations around the world, you could effectively measure ocean warming in different areas as well as the ocean as a whole.
Boom, planetary temperature taken.
If this sounds complicated, well, it is. There were also issues with “sound shadows” created by continents, and underwater topography that could make calculations more difficult, though they could be overcome if the speakers were put in the right place.
Advertisement

But considering that scientists currently use an array of thermometers around the world and satellites coupled with equations to help cover any gaps in coverage to come up with the global average temperature, it doesn’t seem too crazy.
In some ways, what Munk imagined was a much more elegant solution. The system would be self-contained and it would take the whole planetary temperature in one fell swoop.
There was just one problem: Nobody have ever tried to do it.
To start using acoustics to take the ocean’s temperature, Munk needed to prove you could measure the time it took to travel across the ocean to the hundredths of a second. And he needed to find a location to broadcast from that could be heard at multiple other locations.
Advertisement

He chose Heard Island, a remote volcano in the southern Indian Ocean about 2,500 miles southwest of Perth.
“We have chosen Heard Island as an ideal site for an unimpeded transmission to Bermuda,” Munk said in a 1990 lecture organized by the National Academy of Sciences and the Office of Naval Research. “As a bonus there is also an eastward path to San Francisco, and possibly a path through the Tasman Sea to Coos Bay, Ore.”
As the 1991 experiment grew closer, Munk and his colleagues identified 16 listening sites in total. There, researchers would use hydrophones—underwater listening devices—deployed from ships and moored to the bottom of the ocean to hear the 57-hertz sound Munk was planning to play from Heard Island.
In early January 1991, Munk pushed off from Perth with a team of scientists aboard the M/V Cory Chouest, a Navy research ship. In addition to the crew, it carried 10 hydro-acoustic low frequency transmitters for the experiment. They looked like oversized stopwatches, and would be responsible for making the sound heard around the world.
Advertisement

There was just one thing missing: permits. Late in the planning stages, the U.S. and Australian governments decided the researchers would need them to blast a 57-hertz sound at their planned 200 decibels due to the impact it could have on marine mammals.
“The Heard Island Feasibility Test raised the marine mammal question ina big way, and we still must deal with it,” Brian Dushaw, an acoustics expert at the Nansen Environmental Research Center in Norway, told Earther.
To appease the marine wildlife community, Munk and his team scrambled to get a a second ship with observers to join them at Heard Island. They ended up commissioning the R/V Amy Chouest to push off with them and ferry nine marine mammal experts from the U.S. and Australia. They still didn’t have permits in hand when the left shore. If they didn’t come through, it would have made the experiment a no-go, but they were issued a week and a day before the test began from the U.S. and Australia respectively.
The researchers dropped their array of acoustic transmitters into the sea on January 21, and the countdown began to when the tests would commence.
The plan was to begin the experiment on January 26, Australia Day, but the engineers on board wanted to test the transmitters ahead of time to make sure they were in working order. Munk gave them the go ahead. He recounts what happened next in the 1994 documentary One Man’s Noise about his work:
“I had lived that day for two years before it started, what would it be like, would we be heard at all? We really didn’t know if manmade acoustic instruments of this kind would be loud enough to received at such distances. Just before the zero hour, the people in the shop asked if they could test equipment...
I had gone to sleep when we received a very puzzled fax from Bermuda saying ‘we picked you up and what in the hell are you doing? You’re not supposed to start until tomorrow morning.’
And I thought, ‘Oh, that is just wonderful that that question has been answered.’”
The M.V Cory Chouest was able to broadcast 35 times over the next five days before rough seas put an abrupt halt to the experiment. The transmitters were all damaged or destroyed during a storm that churned up 30-foot waves and gale-force winds.
But the 35 transmissions (out of a planned 48) were enough to prove beyond a doubt that sounds could be detected accurately across vast tracts of the ocean. Researchers from India to Bermuda to British Columbia were able to record the sound.
Advertisement

The results were so accurate, Munk was even able to track the path the sound took from Heard Island to distant points. Using data from a hydrograph on Whidbey Island in Puget Sound, he was able to chart a line from Heard Island through what he dubbed the “Polynesian window” south and east of New Zealand. In contrast, researchers in Japan heard nothing, suggesting that oceanic ridges near Tonga and Fiji may have blocked it. The results didn’t give researchers a whole Earth temperature, but they proved the proof of concept and spurred further research into the topic. A similar experiment took place in the Arctic Ocean in 1994, and the results were later confirmed by submarine measurements.
The Acoustic Thermometry of Ocean Climate (ATOC) experiment began broadcasting signals from Pioneer Seamount off central California in 1995 and Kauai in 1997, but both sites were shut down by 1999.
Noise from ships and oil exploration have been shown to have negative impacts on species from whales to shrimp. The observers at Heard Island saw no ill impacts of the experiment, though they were limited solely to ship observations.
Advertisement

Similarly, the ATOC findings show the experiment had “no significant biological impact,” but there’s still room for more research on what putting a permanent sound system in the ocean would mean. There’s also the matter of getting the public on board, which could be the biggest challenge.
“There are three sides to the marine mammal issue: the scientific or what is actually happening side, the regulatory side, and the public relations side,” Dushaw said. “Scientifically, we are in good shape as was demonstrated [by ATOC]. The public relations side lingers, but has died down quite a lot...even though the science and regulatory situation are mostly resolved.”
Scientists have continued to use passive listening to monitor ocean health, including monitoring the impacts of climate change on reefs.
Advertisement

Howe, the oceanographer at the University of Hawaii, thinks that the advances in passive observing since the Heard Island Feasibility Test could ultimately set up a resurgence in broadcasting again in a way that doesn’t impact marine life. And its value could extend well beyond climate change.
“Acoustic methods are one of the few ways to know and measure large scale temperatures. It’s very accurate,” he said. “I look at it as extending our terrestrial infrastructure into the ocean that is our last frontier in some sense.”


Two years ago, the controversial Italian neurosurgeon Sergio Canavero made a brazen announcement: In December 2017, for the first time in history, he would transplant a human head.
The prospect of a head transplant raises all kinds of questions, both technical and ethical. There may be no bigger question, though, than the one that also seems most obvious: From where, exactly, are they going to get this body and head?
Advertisement

At least that’s what Karen Rommelfanger, a neuroethicist at Emory University Center for Ethics, is wondering.
“Why have we yet to ask where the bodies are coming from, either the body with the head or the body with the body?” she told Gizmodo. “We’re missing very important basic details about this and we’re missing the larger picture.”
Canavero has long attracted hatred, skepticism and ire for his plans to proceed with a human head transplant. Initially his lab was based in Italy, but he was forced to abandon those plans to move ahead  with a surgery on Valery Spiridonov, a Russian man suffering from the muscle-wasting Werdnig-Hoffman’s disease. Instead his plans were transplanted to China, where along with a Chinese scientist named Xiaoping Ren from Harbin Medical University he plans to proceed with the surgery on an unnamed Chinese national next month.
In 2016, Canavero claimed to have performed the surgery on a monkey but without reattaching the spinal cord and without publishing a paper on the procedure. This month, he claimed to have successfully performed the procedure on a human corpse, including connecting the spine, nerves and blood vessels. The next obvious step, he says, is a transplant on a living person. Needless to say, scientists are skeptical that he can pull it off.
But whether he can, said Rommelfanger, is a little besides the point. Asking where the bodies will come from is important because it raises questions about both consent and death and the way those things play out differently in different cultural standards. (The American Journal of Bioethics Neuroscience, by the way, has an entire issue devoted to the ethics of head transplants this month.)
In America, the Uniform Determination of Death Act holds that someone is dead when their brain irreversibly ceases to function. China has no such brain death standard.
Advertisement

In research, it’s generally recognized that ethical research on living people requires acquiring “informed consent.”
But, said Rommelfanger, it’s unclear both whether the Chinese research will rely on heads and bodies that have consented and whether those heads and bodies would by Western standards be considered legally dead. If they were both not legally dead and did not consent, that could amount to an experiment that crosses many Western ethical boundaries.
“This is going to be done to someone,” she said. “But the question is whether people will even be given the opportunity to consent or will they just sort of be volun-told,” she said, referencing the problems with unethical organ harvesting in China.
Advertisement

Even more complicated: How do you address consent if someone is dead, but a procedure will make them essentially un-dead?
Rommelfanger expressed concern that this will only be the first of many risky, ethically fraught experiments it opens its door to, in a quest for international acclaim. Already, China has pushed the ethical boundaries in the realm of human embryo editing.
She is also concerned that the technology isn’t being developed for the Chinese people—or really for any therapeutic use at all.
Advertisement

“Why is this technology even being developed?” she said. “We live in a culture that thinks of the human body as something like a car that just needs a tune-up or fix. This is a technology being developed for the ultra-rich, Silicon Valley types that want to download their brains and live forever.”


Dolly the Sheep made biotech history in 1996 when she became the first animal cloned from adult somatic cells. She lived to the age of seven, which is young for sheep, leading scientists to speculate that her premature death had something to do with her being a clone. New research now shows this wasn’t the case.
This whole story can be traced back to a single conference abstract that made brief mention of osteoarthritis in Dolly’s left knee which appeared when she was just five-and-a-half years old. Sheep typically live to be about 10 or 12, so when Dolly died before the age of seven, scientists figured her premature death—and the early onset arthritis—were somehow related to animal cloning. And in fact, it was soon taken for granted that a consequence of cloning was an early grave.
Advertisement

New research published in Scientific Reports now debunks these early suspicions, showing that Dolly’s health complications were not the result of cloning, and that Dolly’s worn out joints weren’t anything out of the ordinary.
Biologists started to suspect this was the case last year following a study of four eight-year old ewes produced from the same clonal line as Dolly. The researchers uncovered evidence of mild osteoarthritis in three of the sheep, and moderate osteoarthritis in one. Examination of these animals, known as the “Nottingham Dollies,” suggested these particular clones aged normally, and that Dolly must’ve been some kind of anomaly.
But the scientists weren’t content to stop there.
“Our findings of last year appeared to be at odds with original concerns surrounding the nature and extent of osteoarthritis in Dolly—who was perceived to have aged prematurely,” Kevin Sinclair, lead author of the new paper and professor of developmental biology at the University of Nottingham, said in a statement. “Yet no formal, comprehensive assessment of osteoarthritis in Dolly was ever undertaken. We therefore felt it necessary to set the record straight.”
Because no original clinical or radiographic records were kept of Dolly, the researchers had to perform a radiographic exam (a kind of X-ray) on Dolly’s skeleton, which is kept in the collections of National Museums Scotland in Edinburgh. Sinclair’s team also examined the bones belonging to Bonnie (Dolly’s naturally conceived daughter), and Megan and Morag (the first two animals to be clones from differentiated cells, or pluripotent stem cells).
Results showed that osteoarthritis was more severe in these older sheep compared to Dolly. What’s more, Dolly exhibited no obvious signs of osteoarthritis in her shoulder, carpal, or hock joints when she was six years old. The overall distribution of osteoarthritis in Dolly was similar to what’s seen in cloned sheep aged seven to nine.
“We found that the prevalence and distribution of [osteoarthritis as detected via radiographic scans] was similar to that observed in naturally conceived sheep, and our healthy aged cloned sheep,” said University of Glasgow professor Sandra Corr, a co-author of the study. “As a result, we conclude that the original concerns that cloning had caused early-onset [osteoarthritis] in Dolly were unfounded.”
Advertisement

Dolly was euthanized in 2003 because she had a form of lung cancer, which is fairly common among sheep.
[Scientific Reports]


For some, sneaking a mouthful of raw cookie dough while baking is an indelible—and certainly delicious—part of the process. But while we’ve been told to avoid dough containing raw eggs, a new investigation confirms that tainted raw flour was responsible for an E. coli outbreak in 2016—a finding that will surely test our temptation to lick the bottom of the bowl.
As you may remember from last year, General Mills had to recall three of its flour products—Gold Medal Flour, Gold Medal Wondra Flour, and Signature Kitchens Flour—following an outbreak of Escherichia coli. That amounted to over 10 million pounds of flour. At the time, E. coli was fingered as a likely suspect, triggering an investigation. That investigation is now officially over, and the resulting study published in The New England Journal of Medicine confirms it. The dry, powdery substance that is flour can host foodborne pathogens, as unlikely as that sounds.
Advertisement

From December 2015 to September 2016, there were 56 cases of E. coli-related illnesses reported across 24 US states. No one died, but one patient came down with a severe form of kidney failure (hemolytic uremic syndrome) brought on by an E. coli infection. Earlier in the year, experts with the US Centers for Disease Control identified the mysterious strain as belonging to serogroup O121, sparking an investigation that eventually linked the illness to the consumption of raw flour.
During the investigation, scientists interviewed the people who got sick, making sure they weren’t using ingredients that were past the “sell by” or “use by” dates. The patients  said they remembered eating raw batter or dough while baking a few days before they came down with symptoms such as diarrhea, vomiting, and fever. Importantly, 85 percent of the patients baked with the same brand of flour, allowing the researchers to trace the outbreak to a single flour processing facility.
The authors of the new report warn that dangerous microorganisms on wheat or other ingredients in flour “can survive the drying process and remain viable in flour for months” in a dehydrated state. This is worrisome news because raw flour is traditionally not thought of as a vector for foodborne diseases.
It’s unlikely that your favorite brand of flour has E. coli lingering within, but as this new study shows, you may not want to take any chances. Last year, the US Food and Drug Administration put out an advisory warning people to avoid eating raw dough, while offering these tips:
Each year in the United States, around 265,000 cases of E. coli-related illnesses are reported, and as this new study shows, some of these could be avoided by not eating raw dough.
Mmmmm, delicious, tainted raw dough....
[New England Journal of Medicine]


Science would probably progress a whole lot slower without the infinite human imagination. We talk frequently about times that science fiction has predicted coming science advances. But this time, the National Science Foundation has let its scientists do the imagining.
This week, the NSF presented its Future of Scientific Imagination, that is, futures extrapolated from present-day NSF-funded research that may one day become a reality. First on their list was a reimagining of the traditional Thanksgiving Dinner.
Advertisement

These days, many of us must travel home from faraway cities to share a meal with our parents. Sure, you can Skype a sibling and your nephew, and then place the laptop at the kitchen table, but they can’t taste mom’s lasagna. And given that its the future, what if they were in space? Plus, these days, everyone is worried about the security of those video calls. So a team of NSF chemists, physicists, engineers, and social scientists considered what a meal might look like in the future.
Perhaps your parents could project you into your family living room via a three-dimensional hologram. Such a video link could be secured through a quantum communications system, like the video call recently shared between the Chinese Academy of Sciences President, Chunli Bai, and President Anton Zeilinger of the Austria Academy of Sciences in Vienna.
As for the meal itself, one day some sort of quantum photocopier might be able to construct the lasagna atom-by-atom. This is a future extrapolation of work done by researchers Markus Greiner at Harvard and Eric Hudson at UCLA whose precision methods use lasers to create new types of molecules. Maybe your pantry would store individual elements instead of cans.
All of this sounds wild, but the quirks of quantum mechanics introduced now-ubiquitous things like lasers and transistors via a quantum revolution that happened decades ago. “There’s huge commercial interest in quantum computing,” Alex Cronin, NSF physics program director explained to Gizmodo. “The dust hasn’t settled yet on what will be the benefits of the second quantum revolution.” Obviously, programming a quantum dinner assembler is many decades away.
The series invited scientists to envision other, less Thanksgiving-related and more Black Mirr0r-esque futures as well, like sensors integrated into clothing, microscopic “robo-ants” that can investigate forest fires, specialy engineered cells that perform specific functions, and living buildings with synthetic leaves.
I hate the future, and even some positive dreams about it can sound incredibly dystopian and surveillance state-y. However, not having to fly on a plane to visit relatives over the holidays sounds nice, and I like the idea of my mom’s stuffed cabbage materializing in front of me.
[NSF]


When an outbreak occurs, in order to effectively figure out how to stop it, researchers typically try to figure out how it started. The answer to that question, though, can be elusive. And as so-called superbug infections have spread across the country’s hospitals, scientists and public health officials have subsequently struggled to understand how these pathogens spread.
Genetics, though, may provide a pretty good clue. A paper published Wednesday in Science Translational Medicine details how the antibiotic-resistant Klebsiella bacteria spread through 26 healthcare facilities and sickened 40 people in 2008. To track the spread, they relied on a combination of genomic sequencing and information about patient movement.
Advertisement

“My research group and many others in recent years have been using these technologies to study how bacteria moves through one institution,” Evan Snitkin, a University of Michigan microbiologist and lead study author, told Gizmodo. “But these organisms permeate healthcare institutions across regions. We wanted to see if you could also track them as they spread across facilities.”
Typically, outbreak investigations rely on information about patient movement, but that data simply isn’t detailed enough to provide solid evidence of how an outbreak starts and spreads. By sequencing the genome of the bacteria in question as it mutated between hospitals, they were able to trace the origins of the 2008 outbreak to a single strain introduced into the Chicago area in late 2007. From there, they were able to paint a picture of how events at one particular hospital contributed to the spread of the infection. Their analysis found that one nursing home was an important transmission hub, with patients from that facility spreading the infection far and wide.
“This was a proof of principle,” said Snitkin. “It could really transform how we do infection control across regions. We could use it to really get a better handle on outbreaks.”
Snitkin said that real-time tracking in a future outbreak could help determine, say, if a hospital needs to crack down on things like hand washing to stop the spread of an outbreak from within or whether the problem is that it needs to better monitor incoming patients.
“You can start to connect the dots,” he said. “In this case, the center of transmission was a single facility and we expect that won’t be uncommon.”
Superbugs that have evolved resistance to multiple antibiotics have become a major problem in the US, with some bacteria evolving resistance to so many drugs there is no longer a readily available way to kill them. According to the CDC, each year  at least two million people become infected with bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics in the US and at least 23,000 people die  as a direct result of these infections. Klebsiella is a member of a class of superbugs known as carbapenem-resistant bacteria. The CDC first detected this type of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in 2000 and since then it has spread across the country to most states.
Advertisement

Snitkin said that the next question is whether the same technique can also be used once a superbug has become endemic to an area, as Klebsiella now is in the Chicago area.
“The big question,” he said, “is what will be the lessons we can use to get a hold on antibiotic-resistance which has become a major public threat?”


To reduce energy consumption, many jurisdictions around the world are transitioning to outdoor LED lighting. But as new research shows, this solid-state solution hasn’t yielded the expected energy savings, and potentially worse, it’s resulted in more light pollution than ever before.
Using satellite-based sensors, an international team of scientists sought to understand if our planet’s surface is getting brighter or darker at night, and to determine if LEDs are saving energy at the global scale. With the introduction of solid-state lighting—such as LEDs, OLEDs, and PLEDs—it was thought (and hoped) that the transition to it from conventional lighting—like electrical filaments, gas, and plasma—would result in big energy savings. According to the latest research, however, the use of LEDs has resulted in a “rebound” effect whereby many jurisdictions have opted to use even more light owing to the associated energy savings.
Advertisement

Indeed, as the new results show, the amount of outdoor lighting around the world has increased during the past several years. “As a result, the world has experienced widespread ‘loss of the night,’ with half of Europe and a quarter of North America experiencing substantially modified light-dark cycles,” write the researchers in the new study, which was published today in Scientific Advances.
This conclusion was reached after analyzing high-resolution images collected by the Day-Night-Band (DNB) instrument that’s onboard the Suomi NPP weather satellite. This sensor features a spatial resolution of 2,460 feet (750 meters), and can “see” light in the range of 500-900 nm (humans see in the range 400-700 nm). Traditional lamps emit some infrared that the DNB can detect, and LEDs produce a lot of blue light that the sensor cannot see. So as cities transition their outdoor lights to LED, scientists often see decreases in the light observed by satellite (which, to the human eye, would seem to have the same brightness).
“For that reason I expected that wealthy countries would appear to be getting darker (even if that wasn’t truly the case). Instead, we observed wealthy countries staying constant, or in many cases increasing,” said Christopher Kyba, lead author of the study and a researcher at the GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences, in an interview with Gizmodo. “That means that even though some cities are saving energy by switching to LEDs, other places are getting brighter by installing new or brighter lamps (that need new energy). So the data aren’t consistent with the hypothesis that on the global scale, LEDs are saving energy for outdoor lighting applications.”
Researchers have been documenting the steady growth of artificial lighting ever since it was invented, and they’ve been wondering when the trend might stop. During the second half of the 20th century, electric light grew at an estimated rate of 3 to 6 percent per year. According to the new study, Earth’s artificially lit outdoor areas grew by 2.2 percent each year from 2012 to 2015, with a total radiance growth of 1.8 percent each year. During this span, nearly 60 countries experienced rapid increases in nighttime illumination between 110 to 150 percent, while another 20 countries experienced growth rates as high as 150 percent or more. Nearly 40 remained stable, with only 16 countries experiencing decreasing rates of nighttime illumination.
The ongoing civil war in Syria is literally sending the country back to the dark ages. New…
Needless to say, and as Kyba pointed out, these rates weren’t consistent around the globe. In developed nations like the United States and Spain, illumination rates remained stable, but most nations in South America, Africa, and Asia experienced growth. In war-torn countries, such as Syria and Yemen, the rates of outdoor lighting decreased. The new study shows that, when it comes to nighttime illumination, most of the world is still playing catch up to First World outdoor lighting standards.
Disturbingly, the results presented in the new study may actually be worse than the data suggests. As previously mentioned, DRB is not able to detect low-wavelength blue light, which humans can see. Our planet, therefore, is even brighter at nighttime than the data suggests.
“This study is important because it validates with data two things we have suspected: that the rate of growth of light pollution continues upward on a worldwide scale, and that the migration of outdoor lighting from older technologies to LED isn’t having the anticipated benefit in terms of global reductions in energy usage,” John Barentine, the resident physical scientist for the International Dark-Sky Association, told Gizmodo. “The latter point is especially important because a number of governments have been convinced to convert their outdoor lighting to LED on the basis of promised reductions in energy usage.”
Barentine, who wasn’t involved in the new study, says the cost savings from the improved energy efficiency of LED lighting has been directed towards the deployment of more lighting, and with important environmental consequences both in terms of light pollution and carbon emissions.
“It’s not hyperbole to describe the global problem of light pollution as both unprecedented and astounding,” he said. “Beyond the energy issue, the main environmental impact of artificial light at night is on the health and wellbeing of practically every organism on Earth, including humans.”
Advertisement

Nighttime illumination is considered a serious environmental pollutant, one that’s disruptive to nocturnal animals, plants, and microorganisms. But it’s also bad for human health as it disrupts the biological circadian rhythm, leading to metabolic disorders.
University of Exeter community ecologist Thomas Davies, who’s not affiliated with the new study, says it’s no secret that artificial light at night is a globally widespread pollutant, but estimating the rate at which it is expanding has been technically challenging.
“This research overcomes many of these technical issues, providing reliable estimates of the global rate of expansion in artificial light pollution,” Davies told Gizmodo. “The numbers are truly shocking, given that we know illuminating the nocturnal environment can have widespread ramifications for the environment and human health.”
Advertisement

Barentine says the solution to this problem is actually quite simple, but it’ll require us to gradually change our relationship with light at night.
“We could instantly reduce the problem by about half if we assured that all outdoor lighting fixtures were fully shielded, meaning that they emitted no light directly above the horizon,” he told Gizmodo. “We could then further reduce the amount of light pollution in the world if fixtures were properly designed and installed such that the light they emit was confined to the task area, and provided in no greater intensity than needed to safely illuminate the task. Lastly, we could reduce the biological harm of our lights by ensuring that they emit as little short-wavelength (blue) light as possible, by choosing ‘warmer’ lamps.”
The most effective way to bring about these changes is through public policy, says Barentine, so we should encourage the encoding of these principles into local, regional, and national laws throughout the world.
Advertisement

These solutions sound simple, and they’re certainly sensible, but it’s rather convenient for those of us in the developed world to impose such lofty standards onto places where nighttime light is being used for the very first time. Sure, we need to change the culture around the use of outdoor light, but let’s start this conversation in places where we already take nighttime illumination for granted.
[Scientific Advances]


Lightning is nuts. It’s a supercharged bolt of electricity extending from the sky to the ground that can kill people. But it can also produce nuclear reactions, according to new research.
Scientists have long known that thunderstorms can produce high-energy radiation, like this one from December, 2015 that blasted a Japanese beach town with some gamma radiation. But now, another team of researchers in Japan are reporting conclusive evidence of these gamma rays setting off atom-altering reactions like those in a nuclear reactor.
Advertisement

Basically, we previously wrote that scientists “think that high-energy gamma rays interacted with nitrogen in the atmosphere, leading to the production of neutrons,” emphasis added. With this new paper, published today in Nature, a team says that they now know this is happening.
Thunderclouds rolled into the Japanese beach town of Uchinada early one December morning in 2015.…
Winter thunderstorms are common on the coast of the Sea of Japan, making it a ripe place to study them. These measurements come from a pair of lightning strikes on February 6, 2017, according to the new paper published in Nature, which left a whole lot of radiation in four detectors between 0.5 and 1.7 kilometers away, around a third of a mile to a mile. Following the flash came an afterglow of radiation for up to a minute. After analyzing the data and the energies of the particles that came out, the researchers felt they’d conclusively observed the results of those gamma rays kicking neutrons off of nitrogen atoms.
This is cool for a lot of reasons. Most notably, you may remember that atoms like carbon and nitrogen get their identity from their number of protons, but they can have varying flavors based on their number of neutrons. This result could “provide a previously unknown channel for generating” rarer “isotopes of carbon, nitrogen and oxygen naturally on Earth,” according to the paper.
At least one other researchers found the results convincing. The observations are a “conclusive indication of electron–positron annihilation,” an expected byproduct of some of these radioactive decays, “and represents unequivocal evidence that photonuclear reactions can be triggered by thunderstorms, wrote Leonid Babich, a researcher at the Russian Federal Nuclear Center-All Russian Research Institute of Experimental Research, in a Nature commentary.
As you’d expect, there’s more work to be done determining just how many of these isotopes lightning creates and what else lightning might create.
Advertisement

But it’s pretty nuts that when a thunderstorm rolls by, it’s as if the earth is operating as a temporary nuclear reactor.
[Nature]


If we’re ever going to truly understand how our Universe works, we’ll need to take lots of different measurements, but measuring can be one of science’s most difficult tasks. How, for example, do scientists measure an invisible thing that passes directly through solid matter without stopping? The inventions scientists come up with to make this possible are often truly incredible—even if the measurements made are totally expected.
Today, scientists at the IceCube collaboration are announcing a relatively esoteric but fundamental particle physics measurement: the rate at which the elusive neutrino particles interact with other particles at their highest energies. The result was consistent with physics theory. But it required a telescope buried in a cubic kilometer of South Pole ice pointing down through planet Earth to measure the properties of particles produced on the other side.
Did I mention the telescope is at the South Pole?
“You’re at the middle of nowhere, the temperature is 20-40 below zero and the altitude is around 10,000 feet,” Spencer Klein, one of the study’s many authors from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California told Gizmodo. “In addition to being really cold, it’s hard to breathe . . . You stay in a station, modern and comfortable, that’s as much like a spaceship as I’ll ever get to see.”
Advertisement

You might remember that atoms are broken into subatomic particles, protons, neutrons, and electrons. But there’s another kind of particle, the neutrino, that barely interacts with regular matter at all; unlike a baseball that gets stopped by a wall, a neutrino can pass through the whole Earth without stopping. But they can slow down a tiny bit. The physicists looked to measure the neutrino cross-section—essentially, how likely these particles are to exchange information with the Earth’s more common particles. It’s like sending a ghost through a crowd and observing the rate at which people were spooked, then measuring whether the spooking tired out the ghost. In this case, scientists only wanted to measure the highest energy neutrinos, those with far more energy than anything created in particle physics experiments like the Large Hadron Collider.
The neutrinos originate from the shower of leftovers created when the Earth’s atmosphere stops high energy particles coming in from space. The neutrinos travel through Earth to IceCube—a detector with 5,160 optical sensors embedded in the South Pole’s ice. They might interact with the atoms in the ice and release a far less spooky particle called the muon, like the screams of the few spooked people. These muons, in turn, emit a flash of blue light, detected by the sensors. The scientists calculated the cross section by comparing the tracks of the neutrinos coming up through the Earth (the ones that had to interact a lot) to those coming from horizontally (the ones that barely had to interact at all).
Nothing unusual showed up in the measurement—it was in line with what the main particle physics theory, the Standard Model, would have predicted. But that alone is important since it can rule out some wackier theoretical ideas. It also demonstrates that the Standard Model is a pretty good theory.
“It’s still pretty amazing,” Deborah Harris, co-spokesperson of the MINERvA experiment told Gizmodo. Essentially, the theory still works for particles a thousand times more energetic than the particles used to establish it. She also liked how the experiment built on other neutrino experiments to do its one-of-a-kind measurement. She said: “these guys are the only ones who can measure these high energy neutrinos.”
Other crazy experiments will soon join IceCube in the hunt for high-energy neutrinos and neutrinos from space like the Cubic Kilometer Neutrino Telescope (KM3NeT), which will work on a similar concept in the Mediterranean ocean. But folks at the KM3NeT were as equally impressed, and one was glad to see the paper land in the prestigious journal, Nature. “This is one of the beautiful examples of what you can do if you have such a machine,” Aart Heijboer, KM3NeT’s deputy spokesperson told Gizmodo. “Although the detectors are motivated by observing astronomical objects using neutrinos, you can do particle physics as well.”
And while the analysis is done mostly at universities, it takes a special kind of scientist to work on a telescope at the South Pole, “These people, even if they make mistakes, they’re motive is to find the truth,” said author Mark Bowen who recently published a book on IceCube titled The Telescope in the Ice. “They have to look reality in the eye and not be fooled . . . It’s amazing what you can find out when you try to find the truth.”
Advertisement

The researchers will continue to refine their measurements—this new paper only accounted for around 10,000 of these super-high-energy neutrinos. They’d like to see what actually happens when the neutrino interacts, while others at the experiment try to understand where neutrinos bombarding Earth from space come from.
But what excited folks at IceCube most was the cool science that could be done with such a neutrino telescope. “This shows that IceCube and experiments with naturally produced neutrinos can be used to do a lot of interesting physics,” said Klein. “In some ways, they have capabilities beyond what you can get at accelerators because of the energies.”
[Nature]


The Food and Drug Agency has issued a stern warning to anyone who might be crazy enough to undertake gene therapy in the do-it-yourself fashion. Definitely don’t do this at home, a statement released on Tuesday implies. And if you do, we’ll throw every law we can at you.
The FDA’s deterrent comes on the heels of a brazen DIY gene therapy experiment, in which a 27-year-old software engineer injected himself with an unproven gene therapy for HIV designed by three biohacker friends. The first injection was streamed live on Facebook in October, and went viral after it was covered by Gizmodo. 
Tristan Roberts sits sandwiched between two men on a couch in a bland DC apartment, with leafy,…
“You can’t stop it, you can’t regulate these things,” patient zero, Tristan Roberts, told Gizmodo at the time.
Apparently the FDA begs to differ.
“FDA is aware that gene therapy products intended for self-administration and ‘do it yourself’ kits to produce gene therapies for self-administration are being made available to the public. The sale of these products is against the law. FDA is concerned about the safety risks involved,” the agency said in its brief statement.
Advertisement

“Consumers are cautioned to make sure that any gene therapy they are considering has either been approved by FDA or is being studied under appropriate regulatory oversight,” it concluded.
It was not the first time a hacker type has injected themselves with something designed to alter their body genetically. Over the past few years, the advent of simpler genetic engineer technologies and services that allow you to design and order DNA on the internet has spurred a burgeoning movement of biohackers that aim to edit the genes of bacteria, plants, animals and even people outside of fancy labs and without the prerequisite degrees.
On a few occasions, the FDA has intervened, such as when the agency questioned whether a green fluorescent jellyfish protein being sold to make glowing beer might be classified as a color additive for food that hasn’t yet been FDA approved. Typically, though, the Food and Drug Administration does not choose to intervene when individuals carry out experiments on themselves, though it does typically strongly discourage such self-experimentation.
The October experiment, though, may have moved the agency to make a statement for a few reasons. While Roberts actually injected the vaccine himself, its development was paid for by a company, Ascendence Biomedical, a mysterious biotech firm with transhumanist leanings. The company plans to sell the “research compounds” used to make the vaccine online and to fund “transparent” clinical trials, beginning next year in places like South Africa, that would skirt typical regulatory oversight by having people like Roberts deliver their own treatment. Self-experimentation is not against the law. So the FDA is instead cracking down on the selling of the supplies that could enable it.
The experiment also raised concerns because, while it involved a gene that research has suggested may one day lead to a highly effective HIV vaccine, there has been no human clinical trials of such a vaccine to date.
It’s unclear from the FDA’s statement exactly which laws the selling of DIY gene therapy supplies may be violating, or how the agency will enforce those laws. Gizmodo reached out to the FDA for comment, but did not receive a response before publication.
Advertisement

The agency singles out CRISPR in particular as a subject of concern, noting that it “considers any use of CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing in humans to be gene therapy.” It does not, however, mention other gene editing systems, though the October experiment relied on a different method. Clinical trials or sale of any gene therapy product already requires approval by the FDA. The clarification here seems to be that the FDA considers any human CRISPR application to be gene therapy.
It’s also uncertain how this could impact businesses like the aforementioned glowing-beer-kit company, The Odin, which sells biohacking supplies including those to modify genes. What does seem certain is that the FDA is drawing a battle line—and signaling to biohackers, beware.
Update 5:40pm ET:  The headline of this article has been updated.


Planets and robots lack hearts and minds, but they’re especially good at impacting ours. In its last days before ending itself, human-built Cassini turned around and snapped this farewell mosaic image of Saturn. Its title: “Farewell to Saturn.”
I don’t have the words to accurately describe the photo’s sublimity. I suggest you take a minute to view it full screen—and you might be left speechless, too. Here’s a high-resolution shot.
Advertisement

Cassini met its end dropping into the ringed planet’s atmosphere on September 15, 2017, after 13 years of Saturn science. Its numerous accomplishments included dropping a probe and discovering liquid methane oceans on Titan and finding plumes on the moon Enceladus. When it finally met its end, it left us emotional.
As its swan song, the “Farewell to Saturn” mosaic shows a dramatic image of the planet in shadows like a crescent moon. But zoom in and you can discern the individual rings, strata of hydrogen, helium, and ammonia in its atmosphere, and even six of its moons, including Enceladus. The image consists of 42 images selected from 80 total taken in two hours. It was taken from a distance of 698,000 miles.
Use this moment to take in an incredible piece of human accomplishment requiring 260 scientists and countless hours to give us a glimpse at (arguably) the most beautiful of the Solar System’s planets.
And finally, with mysteries left unsolved and even the prospects of life, let’s get another spacecraft back to Saturn soon.
[JPL/NASA]


The researcher behind an offshore herpes vaccine trial widely viewed as unethical first secretly experimented on patients in US hotel rooms, according to an investigation by Kaiser Health News.
The experimental herpes vaccine first drew criticism for flouting US protections for patients in human clinical trials by conducting it on the British West Indies island of St. Kitts. In a twist, it turned out that a group of US businessmen, including Silicon Valley billionaire Peter Thiel, had reportedly invested $7 million in the company behind the research in April 2017. (Thiel had secretly funded a lawsuit that lead to the bankruptcy of Gizmodo’s former owner Gawker Media.)
Advertisement

Now, Kaiser Health News reports that the research wasn’t just shady, some of William Halford’s research appears to have been conducted illegally, specifically trials in 2013:
Southern Illinois University associate professor William Halford administered the shots himself at a Holiday Inn Express and a Crowne Plaza Hotel that were a 15-minute drive from the researcher’s SIU lab. Halford injected at least eight herpes patients on four separate occasions in the summer and fall of 2013 with a virus that he created, according to emails from seven participants and interviews with one participant.
Yep. You read that right. He was injecting live virus vaccines into people at a Holiday Inn. Kaiser Health News:
According to the emails between Halford and the patients and extensive interviews with the participant, Halford did not procure written informed consent as required by federal law when testing a live virus on humans. Medical researchers, such as Halford, may not inject patients without oversight by a physician or a nurse practitioner, [Jonathan Zenilman, chief of Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center’s Infectious Diseases Division] said.
Kaiser Health News reported that Southern Illinois University claims it was initially unaware of the concerning research practices, but upon investigation found “serious noncompliance with regulatory requirements and institutional policies and procedures.” Halford died this summer from cancer, but the company he founded in 2015, Rational Vaccines, plans to move ahead with the work.
SIU, by the way, shared a patent on the developing vaccine with Rational Vaccines and tweeted about the work, even though it claimed it was not hip to the questionable research ethos.

The vaccine in question is designed to treat HSV-2, a more aggressive but less common strain of the usually sexually transmitted virus that typically causes genital herpes. While there is no cure, there are drugs to help keep it in check. In addition to outbreaks of painful genital sores, it can put people at increased risk for contracting other illnesses, such as HIV.
Advertisement

In a press release issued when the initial story broke in August, Halford said that he had chosen to conduct the trial in the Caribbean because of cumbersome American regulations.
In the US, Trump and FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb have pledged to speed up the drug approval process. But Halford’s unorthodox practices make a good case for why those regulations are in place to begin with: One trial participant who said he received the injections in Illinois told Kaiser Health News that  he was afraid the vaccine may have given him a new  type of herpes that he didn’t previously have.
We reached out to Peter Thiel for comment and will update the post should we hear back.
[Kaiser Health News]


Imagine if someone came to your house to fix your pipes, then stumbled around your yard blindly with a pair of sticks. Now imagine if you called the company they worked for whose rep said “yep, sometimes that’s how we look for pipes.”
The Guardian reports that ten of twelve United Kingdom water companies admit to using water dowsing rods to find leaks and pipes. Some angered folks are calling for regulatory oversight and penalties for practicing companies. I am calling for a giant meteor, since that might be a more cost effective way to locate underground pipes.
Advertisement

If you don’t know what dowsing is, you’re in for a real treat: It’s the act of using witchcraft to locate something with sticks. When you’re in the right spot, magic makes the sticks cross or wobble. It is a game of pretend.
I have tried to use dowsing rods. They crossed. Because I moved them. With my hands.
The discovery was the twitter work of science blogger and University of Oxford Ph.D student Sally Le Page, whose parents observed a Severn Trent employee using a pair of “tent pegs” as if they were divining rods, reports The Guardian. I wouldn’t call Severn Trent’s response to her tweet an admission—“admitting” implies that you know you’ve done something wrong.

Other companies excitedly owned up to it, too.

Only one company, Wessex Water, said they didn’t, while a Northern Irish company didn’t respond to Le Page’s questioning.
This has to be a joke. It can’t not be a joke.
The UK Water Services Regulation Authority told The Guardian that it’s the job of these companies to work cost effectively, and doing otherwise could earn them a financial penalty. They did not call for a ban of using pairs of sticks to locate pipes.
How would you feel if your electrician tried to fix your wires with a crystal ball? How would you feel if a valet parker used a pendulum to find your car? How would you feel if your doctor tried to locate a tumor in your body with a ouija board? How would you feel if they handed you a bill for these services?
I am not calling an expert to explain how holding a pair of sticks, then crossing them when you feel like it, is an ineffective way to find water.
It’s not like the United States is any better—here, people try to heal their energy with stickers, put butter in their coffee to lose weight, and act like assholes because, uh, stars and planets.
But wow. Just, ugh. Wow. Mnfgh.
[via The Guardian]


If a police officer pulls you over for driving while intoxicated, you could be brought in for a breath alcohol test. If that happens, you’d better hope the test operator doesn’t slather their hands in an alcohol-based hand sanitizer, first.
Alcohol-based hand sanitizers make frequent appearances in law enforcement offices—they’re often found next to the fingerprinting machines, for example. But they emit vapors just like regular alcohol that could disperse through the air and even enter the mouth. A new study confirms that these vapors can cause the breathalyzer to error out—or even report a positive reading.
Advertisement

“In virtually every jurisdiction in the US, there are restrictions about allowing subjects going to be tested to come into contact with alcohol in any form or fashion during the fifteen or twenty minutes, depending on the jurisdiction, immediately preceding the test,” study author Brian Lutmer from the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services Breath Alcohol Program told Gizmodo. “We want to make it clear to the operator, don’t subject yourself to being around alcohol, or allow alcohol fumes to be in the air—because that can also affect the test.”
Prior studies have found evidence of hand sanitizers distorting readings on handheld devices. This time around, the study authors focused on evidential breath alcohol instruments in police stations, the kind that can be used as evidence of intoxication in court.
The researchers tested 65 subjects in a controlled, ventilated room, first administering a handheld breath test like an officer might. Then, one of two operators sanitized with a golf ball-sized dollop of foam or two pumps of Purel and rubbed their hands together until dry. The operators finally gave a series of breath tests to each subject on one of three machines, holding the tube while the subject blew.
Of the 130 tests, 13 resulted in positive breath alcohol concentrations, even though the subject hadn’t drunk anything. Another 41 tests caused the machine to error out, according to the study published last week in the Journal of Forensic Sciences.
There are limitations to a study like this, said Lutmer. Perhaps with more testing or other devices a different set of results might be produced. And when the machine did record a reading, it was lower than those recorded in past studies, including one performed in a hospital setting.
While jurisdictions generally restrict the subject’s access to alcohol prior to a test, they might not mention the operator—the New York Police Department doesn’t mention whether the operator can come into contact with alcohol, for example (see Patrol Guide procedure 208-40). “No alcohol should be used in the immediate vicinity during that deprivation period just to ensure that nothing else can interact with the test,” said Lutmer—by the test subject or the operator.
Advertisement

As far as takeaways go, your first should obviously be don’t drink and drive. But if you’re already sitting in the testing facility next to a breath alcohol testing machine, cross your fingers and hope the operator is taking the same 20-minute no-alcohol-access time as you.
[Journal of Forensic Sciences]


The promise of personalized medicine is a pretty big one: Tailoring treatments to a patient’s genes, their environment or their lifestyle, the thinking goes, will result in treatments that are much more likely to work. The same disease can manifest differently in different people, so why treat patients with a one-size-fits-all-approach?
But a new paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research suggests that, if personalized medicine really takes off, it could actually wind up hurting the pace of biomedical innovation.
Advertisement

Here’s why: Say there’s a personalized lung cancer drug targeted at the specific genetic mutation involved in causing the cancer. Not every lung cancer patient will have that same mutation. Instead, there are likely to be many different biomarkers associated with the same cancer. That means that if a drug works, instead of having a blockbuster drug for a common disease on its hand, the company that developed the drug will have a drug tailored to a much smaller market of patients. And that, the paper suggests, could “reduce some of the incentives for innovation.”
That’s not the only market impact the NBER expects tailored therapies will have. The more effective the therapy, the paper suggests, the bigger the price tag might be. At the same time, it could also reduce the cost of drugs by “allowing more sophisticated pricing systems and potentially decreasing the costs of drug development through shorter and more focused trials.” It could drastically alter what kinds of drugs are actually profitable to bring to market. It might mean that drugs targeting the same disease but different biomarkers could vary significantly in cost. The narrow scope of personalize drugs could also raise the problem of monopolies.
In assessing the future impact of personalized medicine (also called precision medicine) on healthcare spending, the NBER combed through a database of more than 130,000 global clinical trials over the past two decades and looked at trials targeting specific biomarkers.
The US is betting big on personalized medicine with the Obama-era Precision Medicine Initiative, a long-term research endeavor to understand how a person’s genetics, environment, and lifestyle can influence the expression and treatment of disease. Last year’s 21st Century Cures Act furthers the goals of the initiative by encouraging the FDA to develop new regulatory approaches for the oversight of the genomic technologies that will play a major role in developing personalized therapies. The NBER paper is a good reminder, though, that when big change is on the horizon, it’s important to consider all of the possible consequences.


Marine biologists working off the northwest coast of Australia have observed a rare mating display in which male dolphins were seen gathering and offering large marine sponges to females. Scientists have never seen this behavior in dolphins before, highlighting a previously unknown level of social complexity.
Sexual displays are common throughout the animal kingdom, but displays accompanied by objects, or gifts, are actually quite rare. It’s a behavior often seen in some birds, but in mammals it’s practically nonexistent outside of humans. New research published in Scientific Reports shows that another mammal, the Australian humpback dolphin (Sousa sahulensis), also participates in these ornamental mating rituals. But as to whether the female dolphins are actually impressed or persuaded by these behaviors, that remains unanswered.
Advertisement

A team from the University of Western Australia is the first to document this display in dolphins. The new study is based on ten years of observations, which the researchers did by watching multiple groups of dolphins that were geographically dispersed along coastal northwestern Australia.
Male dolphins (and birds, and humans for that matter) offer gifts as a form of peacocking. It’s a superfluous activity that’s completely outside the needs of day-to-day survival, so it serves as a conspicuous display of a male’s abundant physical and cognitive resources. And indeed, the collecting of large marine sponges from the seafloor is not as easy as it sounds.
These sponges are firmly attached to hard surfaces, requiring great strength and agility to remove (keep in mind that dolphins don’t have fingers). Complicating matters is the fact that these sponges are not helpless—they spew a chemical defense to prevent overgrowth and predation. The dolphins, therefore, are likely having to endure some toxic discomfort when extracting the sponges. This activity also requires some intelligence, which could be another sign of sexual fitness. Importantly, only males were observed to collect and present the sponges, and they only did so in the presence of sexually mature females.
“It could be gift-giving in the sense that humans do it—diamond rings [and] roses and the like—in order to impress a female or to suggest that he is somebody that would be a really wise idea to mate with,” Simon Allen, the study’s lead researcher, told ABC News in Australia. “It appears the females tend to be ignoring the male and then it kind of ramps up to the point where he’s a bit frustrated and he tosses the sponge in the direction of the female.”
Advertisement

During the displays, the males were also seen making a physical posture called a “banana pose” and producing a “trumpeting” sound from their blowholes. The whole thing is quite the production.
The first time this behavior was seen, the scientists watched as a male dolphin, in the presence of a female dolphin and her calf, dove down to the seafloor, removed a large marine sponge, balanced it on his beak, and pushed it towards the female.
“We were at first perplexed to witness these intriguing behavioural displays by male humpback dolphins, but as we undertook successive field trips over the years, the evidence mounted,” said Allen  in a statement. “Here we have some of the most socially complex animals on the planet using sponges, not as a foraging tool, but as a gift, a display of his quality, or perhaps even as a threat in the behavioural contexts of socializing and mating.”
Advertisement

Indeed, as Allen hints, these displays may not be as romantic as they sound. As the researchers write in their study:
Alternatively, and perhaps more likely, the presentation and, in particular, tossing of the large sponges in the direction of the female may serve to intimidate, analogous to branch dragging and shaking or the hurling of rocks by male chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) to enhance their charging displays during sexual coercion. Indeed, a threatening or dominance aspect to such displays might also explain the thrashing of plant material and other objects by Amazon river dolphins.
Dolphins are a tremendously hierarchical species, and the sponge gathering (as strange as it may sound) could be a way for males to reinforce their place within the social order, and thus, their suitability/desirability as potential mates. Surprisingly, some large adult male dolphins were seen working together in pairs. It may be a weird case of, in the words of the researchers, an example of “cooperating to compete.” Or in other words, the dolphin version of a “wing man.”
Advertisement

“The formation of alliances between adult males for the purposes of coercing females is uncommon, since mating success cannot be shared,” said study-co-author Stephanie King. “This is a new finding for this species, and presents an exciting avenue for future research.”
For sure—there’s still lots to learn about these dolphins and how these ornamental displays are tied to mating, attraction, and the maintenance of the social hierarchy. Importantly, the researchers aren’t even sure if these sexual displays are actually improving the male dolphins’ odds of mating. The scientists say that behavioral and genetics studies will be required to suss this all out. But there’s one thing we can be very certain about, and that’s the high degree of social complexity among these aquatic mammals.
[Scientific Reports]


Facts are built into the fabric of the Universe, but science can sometimes be a problematic tool for establishing them. On occasion, even the most exciting discoveries can be overturned with more evidence.
Take the flowing water on Mars. Two years ago, NASA made a baffling announcement based on the appearance of seasonal flows, called “recurrent slope lineae” (RSL). Obviously everyone’s first thought was life. But a new study seems to have cast doubt on whether water was truly the cause of these features. Maybe it was sand all along.
Advertisement

“Flowing liquid water in the current Martian climate has always been an extraordinary claim,” the authors write in the study, published in the journal Nature Geoscience yesterday. “The observations and interpretations presented here suggest that RSL are no longer extraordinary evidence.”
Scientists established the original evidence for water on Mars based on temperature-dependent darkening of the narrow, streaky RSL. Data from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter implied that the darkening was caused by water flowing and hydrating the salts, according to a paper also published in Nature Geoscience.
The new study from a team of researchers in the United States and the United Kingdom took a look at the Martian topology. It found that the specifics of these darkened RSL, especially their length based compared to the slope of the hill, would be better explained by flowing grains of sand. More water would flow further down a slope—something not observed.
The study doesn’t rule out water completely—there’s definitely evidence for some at the poles. But it casts doubt on just how much flowing water there is and on the potential presence of life. “Liquid water involved is likely to be low volume with low activity, inhospitable to known terrestrial life, alleviating planetary protection concerns,” the paper continues.
But there’s still work to do in order to understand the RSL. “Full understanding of RSL is likely to depend upon on-site investigation of these features,” said Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Project Scientist Rich Zurek, not involved in the study, in a NASA JPL statement. “In particular, a full explanation of how these enigmatic features darken and fade still eludes us. Remote sensing at different times of day could provide important clues.”
And if a humans do visit, planetary protection concerns will remain until the site is fully understood “to guard against introducing microbes from Earth,” said Zurek, “at least until they are definitively characterized.”
[Nature Geoscience]
Update, 11:30AM EST: Tanya Harrison, Director of Research for Arizona State University’s Space Technology and Science (“NewSpace”) Initiative, told Gizmodo she felt there were still some things a dry flow like this couldn’t explain—seasonality, for example. “As the paper states, these observations point toward volatiles (i.e., water) being involved in some fashion. Even if it’s a minuscule amount of liquid water, that’s still a big deal for Mars.”


61-year-old DIY enthusiast and stuntman “Mad” Mike Hughes is planning his first manned launch of a homemade, $20,000 steam-powered rocket with “RESEARCH FLAT EARTH” written on the side on Saturday, the Associated Press reported.
According to the AP, Hughes says he expects his new rocket to hurl him through the skies above the Mojave Desert ghost town of Amboy at up to 500 miles per hour for roughly one mile, attaining a peak altitude of 1,800 feet before it deploys two parachutes. Hughes is a proponent of the Flat Earth theory; the Research Flat Earth group is his main sponsor. Hughes does not “believe in science,” which he told the AP has “no difference” from science fiction.

“I know about aerodynamics and fluid dynamics and how things move through the air, about the certain size of rocket nozzles, and thrust,” he added. “But that’s not science, that’s just a formula. There’s no difference between science and science fiction.”
Advertisement

“If you’re not scared to death, you’re an idiot,” Hughes, who once reassured Ars Technica that he has a high I.Q., told the AP. “It’s scary as hell, but none of us are getting out of this world alive.”
Adding to the already somewhat troubling nature of the launch, the event will simultaneously serve as the launch of Hughes’ California gubernatorial campaign (because sure, whatever). Though the AP said the event would be live-streamed on Hughes’ YouTube channel, his website says it will be “Available on Internet PPV.”
As Ars Technica noted, Hughes has done a lot of this kind of thing, winning a Guinness World Record in 2002 for jumping “102 feet in a Lincoln Town Car stretch limo.” He also survived a manned steam rocket flight in 2014, traveling 1,374 feet and earning himself three days of recovery from extreme g-forces and a rough descent, the AP wrote.

Videos of his prior test flights showed that the rockets did not explode in a cloud of steam in mid-air, which is good, but also did not exactly appear to be equipped with the latest-generation parachute technology.

Hughes certainly seems to be aware that blasting yourself into the sky is not something that most people would consider a particularly good idea, given possible outcomes like being scalded by red-hot steam or smashing into the ground at lethal speeds. But he also seems pretty determined to do this, so I guess we all owe it to him to hope for the best possible outcome.
[AP]


Scientists know of 750,000 or so asteroids and comets—and all of them are part of this fine solar system. That is, all of them but one. And as new research shows, it’s weird as hell.
Today, scientists are reporting their analysis of ‘Oumuamua, an interstellar object spotted last month. The oddly-shaped, fast-moving rock immediately surprised astronomers with its chemical makeup and other properties, which implied there should be far more interstellar objects floating around than previously thought.
Advertisement

“The presence of ‘Oumuamua suggests that previous estimates of the density of interstellar objects were pessimistically low,” the authors write in the study published today in the journal Nature.
‘Oumuamua’s story begins on October 19, 2017 when the Hawaiian Pan-STARRS1 telescope system spotted it. Scientists named it A/2017 U1, but immediately realized that they were looking at something strange, since its orbit’s shape was extremely hyperbolic. That means rather than orbiting the Sun, this thing came and went with enough speed to “clearly” imply it was from outside the solar system.
The brief visit made the planet difficult to name—the minor planet designation scheme doesn’t allow for naming something only seen once. Researchers created a new classification for these interstellar objects, and gave it a Hawaiian name that “reflects the way this object is like a scout or messenger sent from the distant past to reach out to us,” according to a Minor Planet Center communication. Pronounced “Oh-moo-ah-moo-ah,” it means “a messenger from afar arriving first.”
Observations of the wildly-varying light from ‘Oumuamua showed scientists it wasn’t spherical, but probably had a cigar shape measuring  800 meters by 80 meters by 80 meters—that’s something almost as tall as the Statue of Liberty, but half a mile long. It’s red, and likely made from metal and carbon-rich matter like some comets. Scientists also observed that it didn’t have a fuzzy, comet-like appearance, which is surprising given the fact that most observed rocks originating from the distant Oort cloud are comets.
This set up a conundrum: Scientists assumed interstellar objects would behave more like comets than asteroids until ‘Oumuamua came along. If they’re more like asteroids, that implied to the team that there are way more of these interstellar rocks in the Solar System than originally thought, according to the paper. It also adds another factor when considering Earth impacts. “Impact from an interstellar object would be far more energetic than from a solar system object with similar mass, due to the larger impact speed,” the authors write.
As far as where it came from—no one knows yet. The paper suggests a nearby debris disk, or that its trajectory was changed by some planet or other comet—maybe it was set off by the undiscovered Planet Nine. All that is informed speculation, of course.
Advertisement

Scientists will never get to see ‘Oumuamua again as it speeds off—but it brief visit suggests might not be the last time scientists spot something like this.
[Nature]


Canada is among the few countries in the world where genetically engineering human embryos isn’t just illegal, doing so could land you behind bars.
In the United States, using genetic engineering techniques such as CRISPR to make genetic alterations that can be passed on to future generations is illegal, but scientists are still allowed to conduct experiments that include genetically altering embryos, so long as those embryos never have the chance to become babies.
Advertisement

In Canada, though, even basic research that might be categorized as “germline editing” risks a hefty fine or up to 10 years in prison. Now Canadian scientists and ethicists have joined forces to speak out against the prohibition and its damaging impact on Canadian science.
“Scientists here feel left behind,” Vardit Ravitsky, a University of Montreal bioethicist, told Gizmodo. “They have the technical capacity to do this research and they have these good research questions. The only reason they’re not doing it is legal.”
Canadian scientists have found themselves left out of the conversation as even countries like the US, with its relatively strict prohibitions on human germline editing, are breaking new ground with CRISPR at a rapid clip. In China, over the past two years, scientists have already edited the DNA of embryos several times over. In the US, in August scientists genetically modified a human embryo for the first time, removing a disease-causing genetic mutation, prompting calls for the country to lift a ban on federal funding for research that involves germline editing. In the UK, scientists have been given the green-light to edit genes in embryos for research, too.
Standing in the way of Canadian scientists is a section of Canada’s Assisted Human Reproduction Act, a set of laws forged in the aftermath of advancements in stem cell research, the Human Genome Project and Dolly the Sheep, as the public worried about scenarios like human cloning. The law makes it a criminal act to alter the genome of a cell or embryo in such a way that the change might be transmitted to descendants.
“The main logic here is a slippery slope logic. If you allow us to genetically alter an embryo for research, what’s next?” said Ravitsky. “But embryos don’t fall by chance into a uterus. By banning research you are banning research that is not just about making babies. This research can promote our understanding of reproductive development, of the development of diseases. It makes no sense to say no to research.”
Ravitsky said that Canada would do better to have a law closer to the one in the US, which allows research but not the implantation of altered embryos in a uterus.
Advertisement

“In a few years, if we decide it’s safe and we want to move ahead with the first gene-edited pregnancy, we can decide then,” she said. “We don’t have to decide now.”
Earlier this month, Bartha Knoppers, a health-policy expert at McGill University, presented a consensus statement from Ravitsky and others at an annual meeting of stem cell and regenerative-medicine researchers arguing that “basic and pre-clinical research on human germ cells and embryos in the earliest stages of development should be allowed.” The group is also arguing for Canada to legalize so-called “three-parent babies,” a procedure legal in the UK in which the risk of mitochondrial disease is eliminated from an embryo by giving it a tiny bit of donor DNA. The group recently formed a formal group to advocate for the policy changes, the Coalition for Research on Informed Science Policy, or CRISP.
“Right now, we’re literally importing sperm from the US because it can’t be bought or sold here. Surrogacy is illegal,” Kerry Bowman, a bioethicist at the University of Toronto not involved with CRISP, told Gizmodo. “There is reason to be cautious, but hanging on to an outdated law like this and letting our scientists fall further behind is good for no one.”
Advertisement

Allowing germline editing even just for research though, would likely require an act of Parliament to change Canadian federal law. A statement from Canada’s health ministry, though, might allow a reinterpretation of the existing law that could pave the way for Canadian scientists to do some CRISPR research in embryos.
“People think we want the wild west, but if you look at the UK they actually have more robust oversight even though they are allowing this research to happen. Safety concerns don’t justify a criminal ban, they justify appropriate oversight,” said Timothy Caufield, a health policy expert at the University of Alberta. “This research is in early days, we should be careful not to hype the potential benefits. But we also need to be careful not to hype the harm. Designer babies are not just around the corner.”


A new analysis of ancient rock art demonstrates that humans hunted with dogs on the Arabian Peninsula over 8,000 years ago—and it looks like those dogs wore leashes.
There are lots of questions around the origin of dog domestication, such as when, where, and how it happened. But a newly analyzed set of panels depicts scenes of leashed dogs hunting alongside humans. Not only would this be the “earliest evidence of dogs on the Arabian Peninsula,” according to the study published recently in the Journal of Anthropological Archaeology, but it’s also the “earliest evidence of leashes.”
Advertisement

“The panels . . . indicate that dogs were a critical part of Pre-Neolithic hunting strategies in Arabia,” according to the paper.
Archaeologists found the panels in two sites in northwestern Saudi Arabia, one called Jubbah near an oasis and another called Shuwaymis near a wadi, a dry valley that floods and becomes more lush during wetter periods. These sites depict thousands of animals carved into rock, including 193 dogs at Jubbah and 156 dogs at Shuwaymis. Some, but not all of the dogs have lines carved into the stone from their neck to their presumed owners. The scientists also note that they have features similar to the modern-day Canaan dog.
Dating rock art requires inferences based on the location of the rocks and the placement of the carvings on the rock which makes accuracy difficult, according to the study. One archaeologist, Paul Tacon from Griffith University in Australia, told Science that the time estimate for this study, between 7,000 and 10,000 years ago, is sound. However, he cautioned that the lines might be symbols rather than physical representations of leashes.
The study’s importance lies in how it might shed light on human behavior in the  Arabian Peninsula in the pre-Neolithic era, in which dogs would have played an important role. It additionally “highlights the potential of rock art in providing evidence for the control and use of early domestic dogs.”
The scientists now need to do further digging and see if they can actually find dog remains dating back to the era.
[Journal of Anthropological Archaeology]


Martha Lillard spends half of every day with her body encapsulated in a half-century old machine that forces her to breathe. Only her head sticks out of the end of the  antique iron lung. On the other side, a motorized lever pulls the leather bellows, creating negative pressure that induces her lungs to suck in air.
In 2013, the Post-Polio Health International (PHI) organizations estimated that there were six to eight iron lung users in the United States. Now,  PHI executive director Brian Tiburzi says he doesn’t know anyone alive still using the negative-pressure ventilators. This fall, I met three polio survivors who depend on iron lungs. They are among the last few, possibly the last three in the US.
Their locations form a line that cuts directly through the heart of the country—one in Dallas, one outside  Oklahoma City, and one in Kansas City, Missouri—what some call tornado alley.

Storms have always been especially difficult for Lillard because if the iron lung loses power, she could die in her sleep. She lives alone, aside from three dogs and 20 geckos that she keeps in plastic terrariums filled with foliage and wool. “They like to sleep in the fleece, wrapped up like a burrito,” she said as she introduced me to a few of her favorites.
Advertisement
Advertisement

Lillard sleeps in the iron lung, so it is in her bedroom. Even though the tank is a dull canary yellow it pops in the room, which is painted chartreuse—like the rest of the house, inside and out—and filled with toys and dolls that she has collected throughout her lifetime. On the walls hang a crucifix, a plush Pink Panther, and mirrors strategically placed so she can see around the room and into the hallway.
Her iron lung has portholes and windows on the side; a pressure gauge at the top. The machine is actually cobbled together from two iron lungs. One, the March of Dimes gave her when she was a child. The other, she bought from someone in Utah, after she haggled him down from $25,000 to $8,000. The body has also been modified over the years. Her grandfather invented a motorized pulley system that closes the bed tray into the tank after she climbs in. He also replaced the brushed aluminum mirror above the neck slot with a real mirror so that she could have a clear view to the rest of the room when she’s locked in the canister. A local engineer used a motor from an old voter registration device to build a mechanism that tightens the collar around her neck after she slips her head through the portal. The fan belts and half-horsepower motor have been replaced about ten times.
When Lillard is outside of the tank, she can breathe using a positive-pressure ventilator, a smaller device that pushes air into her lungs. But that instrument doesn’t provide the same relief as when she puts her entire body into the 640-pound, 7-and-a-half-foot-long apparatus. Plus forcing air into the lungs can cause inflammation or damage the air sacs. When she’s sick, she can only heal if she spends full days in the iron lung. She calls herself “a human battery” because she has to recharge every day.
Lillard is 69, 4-foot-9 and weighs 98 pounds. Her back is arched from scoliosis. She didn’t get surgery when she was a child because doctors didn’t expect her to make it to her teenage years and she never had an operation as an adult because polio survivors can stop breathing when they’re on anesthesia.
She was infected with polio at her 5th birthday party at the Joyland Amusement Park on June 8th, 1953. Nine days later, her neck ached so bad she couldn’t raise her head off the pillow. Her parents said it was probably just a summer cold, but Lillard could tell they were afraid. They took her in for a spinal tap, which confirmed it was polio.
Lillard asked me to take out a photo album so she could show me snapshots of her youth as she sat on a blanket on the floor of her living room, where it’s more comfortable for her to sit when she’s out of the machine. “I wanted to be a ballerina. That was my big wish. I started walking on my toes when I was one, and I just constantly was after ballerina dolls. We didn’t have a dance school in town until I was five and my mom was going to enroll me that year, but I got sick,” she told me. “I think now of my life as a ballet. I have to balance so many things. It’s a phenomenal amount of energy I have to use to coordinate everything in my life.”
“All the mothers were just terrified because people were just getting it right and left,” Lillard said. “They didn’t know if it was a virus or bacteria or how you caught it.”
Advertisement
Advertisement

Poliomyelitis is a highly contagious disease that can cause paralysis of legs, arms, and respiratory muscles. “The polio virus is a silver bullet designed to kill specific parts of the brain,” Richard Bruno, a clinical psychophysiologist, and director of the International Centre for Polio Education said. “But parents today have no idea what polio was like, so it’s hard to convince somebody that lives are at risk if they don’t vaccinate.”
When Lillard was a child, polio was every parent’s worst nightmare. The worst polio outbreak year in US history took place in 1952, a year before Lillard was infected. There were about 58,000 reported cases. Out of all the  cases, 21,269 were paralyzed and  3,145 died. “They closed theaters, swimming pools, families would keep their kids away from other kids because of the fear of transmission,” Bruno said.
Children under the age of five are especially susceptible. In the 1940s and 1950s, hospitals across the country were filled with rows of iron lungs that kept victims alive. Lillard recalls being in rooms packed with metal tubes—especially when there were storms and all the men, women, adults, and children would be moved to the same room so nurses could manually operate the iron lungs if the power went out. “The period of time that it took the nurse to get out of the chair, it seemed like forever because you weren’t breathing,” Lillard said. “You just laid there and you could feel your heart beating and it was just terrifying. The only noise that you can make when you can’t breathe is clicking your tongue. And that whole dark room just sounded like a big room full of chickens just cluck-cluck-clucking. All the nurses were saying, ‘Just a second, you’ll be breathing in just a second.’”
Advertisement

In 1955, Americans finally had access to the polio vaccine developed by Jonas Salk. “It was hailed as a medical miracle and the excitement about it was really unparalleled as far as health history in the United States,” Jay Wenger, director of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’s polio-eradication effort told me. “No one who remembers the 1950s, in terms of polio, wants to go back there and be in that situation again.”
Advertisement
By 1961, there were only 161 reported cases in the US. But in 1988, there were still an estimated 350,000 cases worldwide. That year, the World Health Organization, UNICEF, and Rotary International began an aggressive campaign to end polio everywhere. Last year there were 37 cases reported in Afghanistan, Nigeria, and Pakistan.
According to Bruno, if an infected person in either of those countries visited family in an area like Orange County, California, where many parents are opting out of vaccinating their children, “then we could be talking about the definition of a polio epidemic.”
Advertisement

Wenger said that’s why the Gates Foundation recently joined the other organizations in the global effort to eradicate polio. “If there’s a virus anywhere in the world, it could just come back in,” Wenger said. “Some little kid could get on a plane and fly in and reinfect an area. And if the kids in that area are not vaccinated, you could start the virus circulating again.”
But even though the last wild case of polio in the US was in 1979, it still haunts this country. “A lot of people think of polio as a disease of the past and don’t realize there are people here today that are still suffering the effects of polio.” said Brian Tiburzi, executive director of Post-Polio Health International (PHI), an advocacy group for the estimated 350,000 to 500,000 polio survivors living in the US.
Some polio survivors were only partially impaired or got better. For instance, Mia Farrow only had to spend eight months in an iron lung when she was nine, before going on to become a famous actress and polio advocate. And golfer Jack Nicklaus had symptoms for two weeks as a child, but as an adult only had sore joints.
Advertisement
Advertisement

But many polio victims have breathing difficulties for the rest of their lives, or have issues later in life when overworked neurons burn out, a condition called post-polio syndrome. “I breathe 20 percent of what you breathe with every breath,” Lillard explained to me. “You still have the neurons that work the muscles that you breathe with.”
Lillard offered to let me try out her iron lung about an hour after I met her. She showed me how to operate the ad hoc mechanisms that would lock me into the tank and tighten the collar around my neck like a camera shutter—tight enough that no air can escape, but loose enough that I don’t choke myself.

I climbed into the bed tray, slipped my head through the hole, tightened the collar, then flipped the switch that controls the pulley that closes the tray into the main canister. As the system locked me in, I had a quick wave of claustrophobic panic and my instinct was to take deep breaths, but a motor was controlling that. I tried to describe the feeling to Lillard, but the machine was inhaling for me, so no sound came out. I had to wait a moment for the release.
Advertisement
Advertisement

“Let the air out of your lungs and let it breathe for you,” Lillard said. “Imagine if you were real tired of breathing, how good that would feel—if you were struggling to take a breath.”
Being in an iron lung was the most relief and discomfort I have ever felt at the same time. I slowly got used to the mechanical rhythm and began feeling a little relaxed. I tried closing my mouth, and air still rushed in through my lips. I felt like a vacuum cleaner.
As I climbed out, Lillard warned me to be careful and not break any of the switches or pulleys. If I  damaged anything, and she wasn’t able to get someone to repair it within a few hours, she might not have made it through the night. A few weeks earlier, the collar-opener broke and she was trapped inside. Fortunately, her housekeeper was there to help her force it open, and a friend who does custom metal fabrication for motorcycles, planes, and other machines, Tony Baustert, came a few hours later to repair it.
Advertisement

Recently, an ice storm knocked her power out for three days and the generator malfunctioned. The fire department came over but they wouldn’t run a power line from down the street or provide a temporary generator, Lillard said. Fortunately, one of the firefighters came by when he was off-duty and fixed the generator. During the panic, Lillard thought about Dianne Odell, a polio survivor who died in her iron lung in Memphis in 2008, after she lost power during a storm. Her father and brother-in-law took turns pumping the bellows by hand but couldn’t sustain the rhythm long enough to keep her alive.
Understandably, Lillard lives in a constant state of anxiety over the functionality of her iron lung. But she said the company responsible for servicing the device, Philips Respironics, hasn’t been much help. She recalls one time when a repair person disassembled the machine to make a repair, then tried to leave before putting it back together. Another technician took it apart and couldn’t figure out how to fix it, so Lillard had to call another mechanically skilled friend, Jerry House, to help.
These days her biggest concern is the canvas spiral collar that creates the seal around her neck. She used to have to replace them every few months after they wore out and stopped keeping a seal. Back then she could get them for a few dollars each, but she recently bought two from Respironics for a little more than $200 each. She said the company wouldn’t sell her any more because they only have ten left. For years she’s been trying to find someone to make a new collar. She uses Scotch guard on her current supply and tries not to move her neck around, hoping to make them last as long as possible.
Advertisement
Advertisement

I asked her what happens if she runs out. “Well, I die,” she said, in a matter-of-fact tone.
Iron lungs became the responsibility of Philips  through mergers and acquisitions. The March of Dimes supplied and serviced iron lungs until the end of the ‘60s, around the same time the J.H. Emerson company stopped manufacturing the product. Once Salk’s vaccine diminished the need for polio support and advocacy, March of Dimes handed off iron lung responsibilities to Lifecare Services. Medical supply company Respironics acquired Lifecare in 1996, then merged with Philips in 2007.
Over the years, Lifecare and Respironics have tried to get more polio survivors to use alternative breathing aids—devices that were newer, cheaper, easier to service, and didn’t require parts that were no longer manufactured. In 2004, Respironics gave iron lung users three options: transition to another ventilator device, keep using the iron lung but know that Respironics may not be able to repair the device, or accept full ownership and responsibility of the iron lung and find someone else to repair it. According to Post-Polio Health International, responses “ranged from ‘it is understandable that repairing a device made that long ago would be difficult’ to ‘a multi-million dollar company should be able to just make parts.’”
Advertisement

Philips Respironics denied multiple requests to comment for this story. But polio advocates believe the company can do more to help polio survivors who have struggled with the effects of polio their entire lives.
“It would be helpful if the people who are contractually responsible and morally and ethically responsible for polio survivors did something to help these people,” said International Centre for Polio Education director Richard Bruno. “It would be like if you bought a used car, you drove it a block and the car stopped working. Then you go back to the car dealer and you say, ‘Hey, the car stopped working.’ And they say, ‘Well too bad, you bought it and that’s the way life goes.’ Except instead of a car it’s a machine that you need to live.”
Like Lillard, Paul Alexander, 70, also relies on a mechanic to keep his iron lung running.
I met Alexander a few times in his small house in Dallas. He spends nearly every moment in his iron lung in the center of his living room, which is decorated with degrees, awards, pictures of family, and a drawing of the Scottish folk singer Donovan, who had polio. When people enter the front door a few feet away from him, he usually greets them with a warm upside-down smile, reflected in the mirror above his head.
Advertisement
Advertisement

One of the times I visited Alexander, I walked in on him editing a memoir that’s set to be published in a few months. He types and answers the phone with his mouth, using a capped pen attached to a plastic wand he clenches with his teeth. During another visit, his friend and mechanical savior Brady Richards stopped by to check in on Alexander.
Alexander, who got polio in 1952 when he was 6, is almost entirely paralyzed below the neck but that hasn’t stopped him from going to law school and becoming a trial lawyer. “When I transferred to University of Texas, they were horrified to think that I was going to bring my iron lung down, but I did, and I put it in the dorm, and I lived in the dorm with my iron lung,” he told me. “I had a thousand friends before it was over with, who all wanted to find out what’s that guy downstairs with a head sticking out of a machine doing here?”
Advertisement

Alexander hasn’t been to a trial in a few years now as it has become nearly impossible for him to get out of the iron lung for a few hours like he used to do when he went to court and represented clients in a wheel chair.
In 2015, a friend of Alexander uploaded a YouTube video of Alexander explaining the issues he was having with his iron lung, hoping it would be seen by a machinist who knew how to repair the respirator. Finally someone connected Alexander with someone kind and skilled enough to help. “I looked for years to find someone who knew how to work on iron lungs,” Alexander said. “Brady Richards, it’s a miracle that I found him.”
Advertisement
Richards runs the Environmental Testing Laboratory, which does rigorous testing to make sure equipment and products meet environmental standards (everything from checking if a TV mount is earthquake proof to checking how an ambulance will handle a T-bone collision). In one of Richard’s garages, he keeps his side projects—hot rods, desert race cars, and a small collection of iron lungs and parts. This is where Richards refurbished the current machine that Alexander uses and where he is fixing up another replacement. “When we first brought the tube into the shop, one of my younger employees asked me what I was doing with these smoker grills,” Richards said. “And I was like these are not smokers, these are iron lungs. And all my younger guys had no idea what that meant.”
Advertisement

Alexander had been in the refurbished model for about a couple months when I first met with him in September. To him, it was like a new skin. “Once you live in an iron lung forever, it seems like, it becomes such a part of your mentality. Like if somebody touches the iron lung—touches it—I can feel that. I can feel the vibration go through the iron lung,” he said. “If there’s a slight bit of a vibration that occurs as the result of the mechanics—worn out the fan belt or it needs grease or anything like that—it tends to change the breath slightly. Yep, the iron lung’s a part of me, I’m afraid.”
My final visit was Mona Randolph, 81, who lives with her husband Mark, 63, in Kansas City, Missouri. When I first arrived, a helper was tucking Mona into the machine for the night. They lift Mona into the iron lung using a mechanical arm attached to their ceiling since Mark’s back problems prevent him from lifting her into the iron lung, like he used to do when they first met in the ‘80s.
Advertisement

Mona got polio at the age of 20 in 1956. At the time, she was a skilled pianist planning her wedding. She needed an iron lung for the first year, until she went to rehab in Warm Spring, Georgia, where she was able to wean herself off. But 20 years later, in 1977, she had a series of bronchial infections—possibly due to post-polio syndrome—and her doctors told her she needed to start using an iron lung again. “The ‘yellow submarine’ is my necessary, trusted, mechanical friend,” she told me. “I approach it with relief in store at night and thankfully leave it with relief in the morning.”
Advertisement
Mona is covered under Mark’s insurance and Medicare, but neither of those help with the iron lung or the caretakers that Mona needs. The Randolphs opted to take full ownership of the iron lung when Respironics was making its big push to offload them. Since then, Mark, a software engineer who has many other engineer skills, and Mona’s cousin, a former aircraft mechanic, have maintained and repaired Mona’s “yellow submarine.” Mark said the medical costs are about the same as a new car every year, “But what would I spend it on if not for Mona.”
When I met with the Randolphs, Mark gave me photocopies of old service manuals and operating instructions. He filled me in on little-known history about the Emerson iron lung and its inventor, whom they met at a Post-Polio convention. I realized what each of these iron lung users have in common are the aid of generous, mechanically skilled friends and family. And that’s probably the main reason they’ve been able to live long and full lives, despite the hardships and anxieties of depending on aging machinery to survive.
Advertisement

But another thing they all had in common is a desire for the next generations to know about them so we’ll realize how fortunate we are to have vaccines. “When children inquire what happened to me, I tell them the nerve wires that tell my muscles what to do were damaged by a virus,” Mona said. “And ask them if they have had their vaccine to prevent this. No one has ever argued with me.”
Alexander told me that if he had kids he would have made sure they were vaccinated. “Now, my worst thought is that polio’s come back,” he said. “If there’s so many people who’ve not been—children, especially—have not been vaccinated... I don’t even want to think about it.”
Advertisement
Lillard is heartbroken when she meets anti-vaccine activists. “Of course, I’m concerned about any place where there’s no vaccine,” she said. “I would just do anything to prevent somebody from having to go through what I have. I mean, my mother, if she had the vaccine available, I would have had it in a heartbeat.”



When you hear something is chock-full of antioxidants, the mental conclusion is often: That’s it—that’s the elixir of life, I have to eat a lot of that. But why do we all assume that loading up on anti-oxidants will somehow be the key to infinite youth?
This week, news outlets reported on a new study claiming that mushrooms can help fight aging. As you may be aware, the only true way to stop aging is death. But no one ate any mushrooms for this study—instead, the researchers were talking about the much-hyped antioxidant molecule.
Advertisement

But first let’s discuss the study. The researchers merely measured the levels of two molecules, like glutathione and ergothioneine, and found that certain mushrooms had more of those molecules than others. There wasn’t a clinical trial, a survey of people’s longevity after consuming said mushrooms—it was solely a chemical analysis.
Glutathione and ergothioneine happen to fall into the class of antioxidant molecules, however—which meant that news outlets were eager to call mushrooms anti-aging elixirs. But antioxidants aren’t something that really need to be shouted about.
First, what are they? Your body produces certain electron-stealing molecules called free radicals that can potentially damage DNA and cells. It uses antioxidants to protect against the effects of these free radicals—“antioxidant” literally means “doesn’t oxidize,” where oxidizing is the chemistry word for losing electrons. There are hundreds of different kinds of antioxidants, according to a Harvard tip sheet.
Clinical trials testing the benefits of single antioxidant molecules like Vitamin E and others have produced mixed results. They seem to help against macular degeneration but there’s not conclusive evidence demonstrating their benefits for warding off heart disease, strokes, or cancer.
That’s not to say antioxidants are bad—it just doesn’t really matter if mushrooms have more of two specific antioxidants. Instead, it’s better to focus on the molecules in their natural habitat as part of a balanced diet with lots of fruits, vegetables, and even mushrooms. Because eating more mushrooms to ward off aging is shit advice.
[Food Chemistry]


To be a giraffe among giraffes, or a pigeon among pigeons, is to live at all times in that scene from Being John Malkovich—a world in which everyone you know looks pretty much exactly like you. However wondrously varied the animal kingdom might be, on a species-level its residents tend to look more similar than not—at least, from a human perspective. I’m not saying that all squirrels look identical—just that being a squirrel, and trying to distinguish your squirrel-spouse from your squirrel dad from your squirrel-mailman, seems like it would be pretty hard work.
And yet anyone who’s seen a nature documentary knows that despite their surface similarities, animals recognize their own all the time. Sight might play some role here, depending on the species, but it can only take a given animal so far. Presumably, other processes have to pick up the slack. This week on Giz Asks, to figure out what, exactly, those processes are, we reached out to a number of experts—among them biologists, psychologists, and environmental scientists—who detailed the wide range of behaviors which help animals of the same species recognize one another.
Associate Professor in the Department of Comparative Human Development and head of the Adaptive Research Lab at the University of Chicago
Most animals recognize their family and ‘friends’ by sight or by smell, although other cues could be used, such as sounds. Odors are used as cues to familiarity or genetic relatedness in mammals, birds, amphibians, fish and insects. These odors could come from general sweat glands or from specialized glands in the skin. In some cases, odors are influenced by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), a collection of genes involved in the immune system. Family members have similar MHCs, and therefore have similar odors.
Another question we could ponder is ‘why do animals recognize each other?’. Recognizing familiar individuals, such as neighbors, can help to avoid unnecessary fights or to promote alliances. Recognizing relatives can be important to avoid inbreeding, or to recognize previously unfamiliar kin, such as paternal half-siblings in species which have multiple paternity. Furthermore, animals which engage in nepotistic behaviors—risky behaviors that benefit kin —certainly need to be able to recognize how closely related they are to the individuals who might benefit.
The ‘how’ and ‘why’ of animal recognition are well understood for Belding’s ground squirrels, a small, group-living mammal found in high elevation meadows of the western United States that I have studied for 25 years. Adult females are highly nepotistic, but risk their lives only to benefit mothers, sisters and daughters. Their litters are comprised of full- and half-siblings, creating a need for squirrels to recognize kin they did not encounter growing up, such as their father, a paternal half-sibling, or a cousin. Belding’s ground squirrels have a variety of glands that produce odors useful for recognition. Oral, dorsal, pedal, anal and supra-orbital glands produce individually distinct odors, and oral- and dorsal-gland odors are kin distinct. That is, these odors co-vary with kinship and allow squirrels to quickly assess their relatedness to others. Indeed, when two squirrels first encounter each other, they smell each other’s oral glands, and look as if they are kissing as they do so. After their seven-month hibernation, squirrels still recognize their kin, but no longer recognize their previously familiar neighbors, telling us that each spring squirrels use their own odor as a referent or a template of what their family smells like.

Associate Professor in the Department of Psychology at Eckerd College
Being able to tell a family member from a non-family member is very important and seems to happen in many species. Nepotism, or favoring kin, as well as the avoidance of close inbreeding is seen throughout the animal kingdom, which suggests the importance of being able to distinguish family from others.  There are a variety of mechanisms used, and sometimes multiple mechanisms within a single species.  For example, bank swallows first use their nest site to recognize where their chicks are (and they will feed non-kin chicks placed in their nests). However, once their own young fledge (around 2-3 weeks), the parents shift their discrimination strategy to recognizing the individual call of their chicks (and will no longer feed a non-related chick).
Bottlenose dolphins produce “signature whistles” which are characteristic of a particular individual.  When a dolphin is separated from its group it is more likely to produce its signature whistle than when it is not separated.  Dolphins also seem to remember the signature whistles of their “friends” after years of separation.
Other strategies include visual cues (e.g. behavior and morphology) and chemical cues (e.g. odors).  Research also suggests that pandas may use their distinctive facial fur pattern for individual recognition.
Assistant Professor of Psychology, Hunter College, CUNY and Founder, Think Elephants International
Humans are members of the primate order, and like our ape cousins—chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans, bonobos—we primarily absorb our physical world through our visual experiences. Our ability to recognize people that we know is based largely on the integration of our visual system with our memories. This doesn’t mean we don’t also use our sense of smell and hearing in our interactions with others (humans have language and primates certainly communicate with each other using sound and smell), but vision is our primary sense.
But how do other animals, non-primates in particular, experience their physical and social worlds? For more than a decade, I have studied the behavior of Asian elephants in Thailand. My research focuses largely on how elephants think and make decisions in both their physical and their social worlds. How do elephants make decisions about where to go to find food, or which elephant to cooperate with? Although elephants can see (my colleagues and I did a study that showed they can recognize themselves in mirrors, for instance), research on elephant behavior indicates that elephants’ interactions with others—specifically, within their social groups—may rely more heavily on their use of sound, smell and touch.
In one study, scientists Lucy Bates, Richard Byrne and their colleagues were interested in looking at African elephants’ memory for family members and the elephants’ understanding of where the family members were located in relation to themselves. The interesting part of this study is that they tested this using urine, and found that the elephants may have been able to identify a large number of individuals simply by “smelling” what they left behind.
I think it’s pretty clear from research like this, and decades of research from other elephant behavior scientists in Africa and Asia, that elephants are multimodal communicators; they can use the complement of visual, acoustic, olfactory and tactile information in their social interactions with other elephants. In addition to detecting, identifying and communicating with individuals through sound calls, elephants often use their trunk, which is an extremely sensitive olfactory organ, to both touch and smell other elephants. Although we’re still studying this, I’m convinced that the elephant’s sense of smell plays a huge role in their ability to make all sorts of decisions in their daily lives. The non-human animal world can tell us so much about how sociality and communication evolve, and we still have so much more to learn!
On a more somber note, species such as chimpanzees, gorillas, bonobos, orangutans and Asian and African elephants are endangered; we are running out of time to learn more about these remarkable animals. New knowledge about their behavior and cognition not only informs our understanding of our own evolution but also may play an important role in helping scientists and conservationists develop better protocols for protecting them and their habitats.

Associate Professor, Department of Environmental Studies at the University of New England
There are many different methods of communication and individual recognition among animals. There are scent-markings: for instance, a deer might urinate down its leg, which catches the smell, and gives off an individual identification A  grey fox will very intentionally poop right in the middle of a trail or on top of a rock in a place that’s really obvious, as a way of saying ‘I was here, this is who I am.’ A bird [communicates through] song or calls or other types of vocalizations, as well as through actual displays—the way that they fly up in the air and make a particular pattern, usually linked with a sound while in the air, or a call. These are ways that they all can distinguish individuals, and then they can make choices about what sort of relationship they have with those individuals, whether it’s to ignore them, whether it’s aggressive, whether it’s a friendly relationship—or if it’s courtship. Courtship is really key here.
There are a number of mammals that can also communicate by sight as well: the way a squirrel moves its tail can give signals to other squirrels about who they are, as well as their relative health and their body condition, and things like: are they stressed, are they prepared to mate, etc. Things like that provide very complex signals.
It’s really complex signals that are provided in things like that.
Professor Emeritus of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Colorado and the author of the forthcoming Canine Confidential: Why Dogs Do What They Do
A number of nonhuman animals—i.e., animals—have the ability to recognize themselves. Of course, what they actually know about themselves and whether they actually say something like “Wow, that’s me” when they see, hear, or smell themselves, isn’t known. So, while we don’t know if other animals have a true sense of “I-ness,” as do humans, they do show the ability to know something about their own body: for example, this tail is mine. Thus, they have what I call a sense of “body-ness” and a sense of “mine-ness.” Different studies have been conducted on nonhuman primates, dolphins, elephants, and magpies using what is called the “red dot” test. During these experiments, called the “mirror test,” a red dot is placed on the forehead of an individual when they are anesthetized or otherwise unaware that someone has marked them. Then, after they previously have been trained to interact with a mirror, a limited number of members of these species make self-directed movements toward the red spot. These movements are taken to mean they have some sense of self-awareness or self-recognition.
But we really don’t know how dogs recognize other dogs as the individuals who they are, and likely there’s more than one way they do so. I’m sure that dogs have individual and unique scents—so one way in which my dog Jethro, for example, might recognize his good friend Zeke and other dogs would be by what they smell like. For me the interesting questions are how dogs recognize other dogs as individuals with whom they don’t have all that much contact, or how they recognize them from a distance. Dogs might also use sight — visual clues such as size, shape, coat color, the type of ears and tail an individual has, and gait, for example, and perhaps what another dog sounds like when they vocalize. It’s also easy to imagine that dogs use what are called “composite signals” in which they use cues coming in simultaneously from the different senses to identify individuals. Numerous people with whom I spoke when I was researching my book told me that they simply knew their dog recognized other dogs—but hard data on this question are really lacking. This would be a wonderful topic for future systematic research.
Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience at the University of Cambridge, her recent research on Huntington’s disease led her to her discovery that sheep can recognize human faces
Sheep tell each other apart from face recognition, sound and smell. So, pretty much as a dog does. Which sense prevails depends upon how far away one animal is from another and how dark it is. Smell is more important for lamb recognition, and less important for adults.
Professor of Sensory and Behavioural Ecology, Berlin Institute for Advanced Study
[Bees] don’t—to our knowledge, there is no individual recognition in bees (but there is recognition of colony membership by scent). But some wasps recognize each other individually through distinct facial features. And bees can be trained to recognize images of individual human faces.
Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Michigan
Social bees and wasps have a colony-specific scent that they use to figure out which individuals are nestmates vs non-nestmates. Workers also identify the queen using her scent. The fertile queen smells different than infertile workers. Some bees and wasps use other mechanisms for recognition. For example, Polistes fuscatus paper wasps have unique facial features. These wasps use each other’s unique faces for individual recognition. It’s similar to the way that you identify people using variation in human facial features.
Biologist and research fellow, Department of Ethology, Eötvös Lorand University, Budapest, studies bioacoustics
The short answer is we don’t really know much about this. [Dogs] certainly use smell, visual and acoustic features. There is one study showing that they look longer at pictures showing the face of dogs they have already seen compared to novel ones suggesting that they are able to discriminate other dogs’ faces (Racca et al 2010). Another study showed that they react differently to familiar and unfamiliar territorial barks: when the researchers played back a bark from an unknown individual outside the fence of the garden, the subjects approached it, and reacted with barks, while when they heard the bark of a familiar individual they oriented to the house where it was actually located during the playback (Pongrácz et al 2014). Finally, they also seem to react differently to a familiar and unfamiliar dog’s separation whines. The subjects showed more affiliative behaviors to the familiar dog when they heard its whines before compared to hearing an unfamiliar individual’s whine (Quervel-Chaumette et al 2016). However we don’t really know what features they actually use to differentiate other dogs.
Additional reporting by Ryan Mandelbaum.
Do you have a question for Giz Asks? Email us at tipbox@gizmodo.com.


A few months ago, physicists observed a new subatomic particle—essentially an awkwardly-named, crazy cousin of the proton. Its mere existence has energized teams of particle physicists to dream up new ways about how matter forms, arranges itself, and exists.
Now, a pair of new research papers using different theoretical methods have independently unearthed another, crazier particle predicted by the laws of physics. If discovered in an experiment, it would provide conclusive evidence of a whole new class of exotic particles called tetraquarks, which exist outside the established expectations of the behavior of the proton sub-parts called quarks. And this result is more than just mathematics.
Advertisement

“We think this is not totally academic,” Chris Quigg, theoretical physicist from the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory told Gizmodo. “Its discovery may well happen.”
Bust first, some physics. Zoom all the way in and you’ll find that matter is made of atoms. Atoms, in turn, are made of protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons and neutrons can further be divided into three quarks.
Physicists have discovered six types of quarks, which also have names, masses, and electrical charges. Protons and neutrons are made from “up” and “down” quarks, the lightest two. But there are four rarer, heavier ones. From least to most massive, they are: “strange,” “charm,” “bottom,” and “top.” Each one has an antimatter partner—the same particle, but with the opposite electrical sign. As far as physicists have confirmed, these quarks and antiquarks can only arrange themselves in pairs or threes. They cannot exist on their own in nature.
Scientists in the Large Hadron Collider’s LHCb collaboration recently announced spotting a new arrangement of three quarks, called the Ξcc++ or the “doubly charged, doubly charmed xi particle.” It had an up quark and two heavy charm quarks. But “most of these particles” with three quarks “containing two heavy quarks, charm or beauty, have not yet been found,” physicist Patrick Koppenburg from Nikhef, the Dutch National Institute for Subatomic Physics, told Gizmodo back then. “This is the first in a sense.”
With the knowledge such a particle could exist (and with the knowledge of its properties like its mass), two teams of physicists crunched the numbers in two separate ways. One team used extrapolations of the experimental data and methods they’d previously used to predict this past summer’s particle. The other used a mathematical abstraction of the real world, using approximations that take into account just how much heavier the charm, bottom, and top are than the rest to simplify the calculations.
In both new papers published in Physical Review Letters, a stable four-quark particle with two bottom quarks, an anti-up quark, and an anti-down quark fell out of the math. Furthermore, the predicted particles’ masses were not quite the same, but similar enough to raise eyebrows.
Advertisement

“As you notice, the conclusions are basically identical on a qualitative level,” Marek Karliner, author of the first study from Tel Aviv University in Israel, told Gizmodo. And while lots of tetraquark candidates have been spotted, this particle’s strange identity—including the added properties and stabilization from its two heavy bottom quarks—would offer unambiguous evidence of the particle’s existence.
“The things we’re talking about are so weird that they couldn’t be something else,” said Quigg.
But now it’s just a manner of finding the dang things. Quigg thought a new collider such as one proposed for China might be required. But physicists are in agreement that the sometimes-overlooked LHCb experiment has been doing some of the year’s most exciting work—Karliner thought the experiment could soon spot the particle. “My experimental colleagues are quite firm in this statement. They say that if it’s there, they will see it.” He thought the observation could come in perhaps two to three years time, though Quigg was less optimistic.
Advertisement

Such unambiguous detection of the tetraquark would confirm guesses from as far back as 1964 as to how quarks arrange themselves. And the independent confirmation from different methods have made both teams confident.
“I think we have pretty great confidence that he doubly-b tetraquark could exist,” said Quigg. “It’s just a matter of looking hard for it.”
[PRL, PRL]


For the better part of the last three years, the introduction of the most powerful gene editing technology ever invented has been marred by a nasty patent battle. The two groups of scientists involved, each contributing significantly to the future of genetic engineering, are pitted against each other in a bitter contest for glory and fortune.
In one corner: UC Berkeley, which argued that seminal 2012 work revealing that a bacterial immune system called CRISPR could be repurposed to edit genes ultimately paved the way for CRISPR to be used to genetically alter animal DNA. In the other corner: The Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, which six months later actually adapted CRISPR to engineer plant, animal and human cells. At issue: Who deserves credit for the original recipe that led to using CRISPR-Cas9 to edit mammalian DNA.
Advertisement

In February, a US Patent Office appeal board raised the Broad Institute’s arm in victory. Since then, this US case has been stuck in appeals within the Federal Circuit (in Europe, the question of who will ultimately win this patent battle is also up for debate). But if both sides had adhered to a controversial 1997 US patent rule known as the written description doctrine, the whole mess probably could have been avoided, argue two researchers in a new Science opinion.
“A patent is an economic instrument, not an instrument for glory,” Arti Rai, co-director of the Duke Law Center for Innovation Policy and an author on the paper, told Gizmodo.
The issue, she said, is that Berkeley (and perhaps also Broad) made claims in their patents that were simply too broad. As written, the patent code already requires that if you patent something, you have to include “full, clear, concise, and exact terms” that would allow anyone with the prerequisite skills to replicate whatever it is that you did. Twenty years ago, the Federal Circuit court made it clear that original patent claims can be invalidated if the patent application does not disclose how the operation of complex new technologies would actually work. In theory, this means you can’t patent the genetic engineering of mammalian cells with CRISPR if you haven’t actually tried to edit mammalian cells with CRISPR yourself.
“You’re supposed to describe in your patent what you have already done,” said Robert Cook-Deegan, Rai’s co-author and a researcher at Arizona State University’s School for the Future of Innovation in Society. “That means that Berkeley would have had to file patent applications specifically describing editing eukaryotes.”
Part of the problem is that the written description doctrine is controversial and inconsistently enforced.
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s 2010 patent infringement suit against Eli Lilly, which is a crucial affirmation of the written description doctrine, is a good example. Harvard and MIT scientists had identified a cell-signaling pathway related to the body’s immune responses to an infection known as NF-kB. The patent the scientists licensed to Ariad, though, claimed a method for modulating that pathway, though they had yet to identify the molecules that modulated it. A jury sided with Ariad, claiming that Eli Lilly had manufactured two drugs that infringed upon it, but a Federal Circuit court overturned the finding, invoking the written description doctrine.
In a dissenting opinion, though, a judge articulated a criticism held by many—that a written description doctrine separate from what’s already included in the patent code is just unnecessary. The sentiment was that in expanding the requirements of a written description, the court had overshot its goal and created something that created too many hoops for innovators to jump through that could be used to invalidate almost any patent claim. The crux of the criticism was that all this might hamper innovation and prevent innovators from reaping the benefits they ultimately deserved. (The original written description portion of the patent code was used only to police claims added after an original filing date, not to test whether an inventor actually possessed the ability to do everything described in their original filing.)
Advertisement

Those arguments, though, persist today and the inconsistent application of the doctrine has made it such that institutions like Berkeley have a decent shot at making a successful claim to broad discoveries.
“The courts should uphold the written doctrine consistently so people stop trying to get around it,” said Cook-Deegan. “Then we can quit paying all these lawyers to dispute patents.”
Even the Broad patents, the paper points out, may cover too much inventive territory because it covers all Cas9 proteins, even though there are many such proteins and the work did not cover them all.
Advertisement

It makes sense. After all, broad patents mean more opportunities to reap financial reward.
But overly broad patents, the paper argues, are inefficient and wasteful in that they inevitably lead to long, drawn out patent battles like the one over CRISPR.
“The bigger the prize at the end of the race, the more likely we will see inefficiency,” they write.
Advertisement

If awarded, broad patents also concentrate economic wealth and power over essential scientific knowledge.
“The weight of evidence suggests that broad knowledge monopolies even in the hands of universities can hinder scientific progress,” the paper argues.
The problem of broad licenses is exacerbated by the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, which was intended to turn patents into a way of commercializing federally funded research and allow research institutions to profit big off their inventions. This has led to complicated licensing agreements that assign ownership and access of broad technological inventions to a few. Both Berkeley and Broad, for example, have doled out exclusive licenses to companies affiliated with the scientists behind the work and anyone who hopes to commercialize those inventions must pay to sublicense the technology from them.
The bigger issue, though, may be the cultural significance associated with patents. Patents are a trophy, an invisible symbol that convey credit for an innovation. Legal rights get confused with scientific credit. But conflating credit and economic ownership, said Rai, is a bad idea.
Advertisement

“For Berkley to make the claims that it did was a great conceptual leap,” said Rai. “We would not begrudge them scientific glory. But that’s different from claiming a patent.”
If it upholds the patent board decision, the Federal Circuit court may wind up invoking the written description doctrine. In the case, a key legal question is whether at the time Berkeley filed its patent, eukaryotic applications were not just “obvious to try” but also had a “reasonable expectation of success.” The patent board held that Berkeley’s breakthrough had not made it scientifically “obvious” that Broad’s work would succeed. That meant there was no overlap in what Berkeley and Broad each claimed in their patents.
Of course, some have argued that a technology as powerful as CRISPR should be owned by no one at all.


In the year 2030, a powerful radio transmission originating from Earth will arrive at a potentially habitable exoplanet located approximately 12.4 light years away. Should any alien intelligence be there to receive it, they’re in for quite a treat: This binary stream of data contains short musical clips from some of the world’s best electronic musicians. It’s part art, part science—but considering we know virtually nothing about extraterrestrials, should we really be calling attention to ourselves?
For three days in October, organizers of the Spanish Sónar electronic music festival pointed the 105-foot-wide European Incoherent Scatter Scientific Association (EISCAT) radio antenna towards the sky and sent bursts of radio signals  towards GJ 273—a red dwarf star (sometimes called Luyten’s Star) that hosts two known planets, one of which, GJ 273b, may be capable of supporting life. With the help of astronomers from METI (Messages to Extraterrestrial Intelligence) and the Institute of Space Studies of Cataloniar (IEEC), the Sónar team beamed digitally encoded clips of music from such artists as Autechre, Holly Herndon, Jean-Michel Jarre, Modeselektor, Matmos, Kode9, and Laurel Halo.
Advertisement

In April 2018, they’ll do it again, sending 15 more tracks from some of the 33 artists who are taking part in the festival. You can listen to the 10-second-long tracks beamed during the first transmission here (Niva Kraviz’s is my favorite, and shame on Jarre for rehashing an old clip from Oxygène).
Called Sónar Calling, the project is a “celebration, an artistic-scientific experiment and a collective reflection open to humans and extraterrestrials,” according to the festival website. The point of the exercise, aside from attracting the obvious publicity and selling more concert tickets, is to promote “the first contact of humanity with an extraterrestrial intelligence.” Sounds flowery, but there’s some actual science going on: Unlike the traditional, passive SETI approach of listening for alien radio signals, METI is trying to make actual contact with ET.

Which leads me to the obvious question: Is all this such a good idea? Sure, this exercise sounds harmless and fun, but it’s not a zero-risk endeavor. Aliens may very well be listening, and we have no idea how they might respond. The whole thing seems a bit premature, possibly even reckless.
But Douglas Vakoch, president of the not-for-profit METI, doesn’t see it that way. To him, Sónar Calling is a good way to test and refine some basic interstellar communication principles, and educate the public about the METI concept. It’s also a way to see if aliens are actually out there.
“We’re testing one solution to the Fermi Paradox called the Zoo Hypothesis,” Vakoch told Gizmodo. “According to the Zoo Hypothesis, perhaps extraterrestrial intelligence is much more widespread than we usually think, and even nearby stars are populated with advanced civilizations. In short, they already know we are here, but they are simply watching us, like we watch animals in the zoo.” Vakoch’s hope is that we send a message that’s interesting enough to warrant a response from an extraterrestrial civilization.
The other point of the exercise, says Vakoch, is to develop a process that can be replicated, over and over again, with multiple stars.
Advertisement

“This preparation includes developing the messages we send, encoding them in a format that can be transmitted with available facilities such as EISCAT, and archiving our messages so future generations will remember what we have sent, and so they will know when we can first expect a reply,” he said. “If METI succeeds in creating the organizational infrastructure that allows the sort of long term thinking that encourages astronomers to look for a reply from GJ 273b a quarter of a century from now, the project will be a remarkable success, even if we don’t receive a reply from ET.”
The Sónar Calling project is reminiscent of previous attempts at interstellar communication, including the Aricebo Message (1974), Russia’s Cosmic Call (1999), the Lone Signal Project (2013), and to a lesser extent the Golden Record on NASA’s two Voyager probes. But these efforts were one-off signals, and with no follow-up.
“We have transmitted to the same star on three successive days, giving scientists on GJ 273b time to ask their colleagues at other observatories to watch for repeated transmissions, letting them confirm that they’ve detected an artificial signal,” said Vakoch. “Moreover, we’ll send a second set of transmissions in April 2018, giving extraterrestrials orbiting Luyten’s Star an additional six months to prepare an extensive observing campaign of Earth, allowing further confirmation of our signal.”
Advertisement

In addition, the transmission designed by IEEC and METI scientists is “propaedeutic” in nature, meaning that each section of the message contains information about how to decode the next section. According to the Sónar Calling team, a sufficiently sophisticated alien intelligence should be able to detect this transmission and perceive it as coming from an unnatural source. Music from the first transmission is now hurtling towards GJ 273b at the speed of light, and it’ll arrive in late 2030. So the earliest we could ever hope to hear a response will be in 2043.
Each contributing artist had to compose and specially prepare their music for transmission. Given the very slow data transmission rate of 500 bits per second (that’s about 250,000 times slower than  MP3 playback), the musicians were required to compose brief 10-second-long pieces, and at a very low digital sound quality. For the audiophiles among you, it was a PCM encoding of only eight bits, in mono, and with a sampling frequency of just eight kilohertz. No data compression was used. Each piece was preceded with a digital “tutorial” that describes the digital coding of sound waves using different frequencies and harmonics. The clips were sent from the EISCAT observatory in Tromsø, Norway on October 16th, 17th, and 18th.
In terms of the risks, Vakoch believes that any civilization that has the capacity to travel to Earth to do us harm already knows we’re here, “so there is no increased risk of an alien invasion from our transmissions.” Vakoch says we have a natural tendency to think that it’s risker to do something than not to do something, so we think it’s riskier to transmit a message than not to transmit.
Advertisement

“But when we stop and think about it, sometime it is risker not to do something,” he says. “Some people choose not to get vaccinated to prevent a serious disease, but that decision actually increases their risk of getting sick. And if enough people make that same choice, this lack of action would be devastating for public health.” Vakoch is working under the rather big assumption that contact would be ultimately good for us, and that a benign ETI could pull us from the primitive mode we currently find ourselves in. Or at the very least, that proof of alien existence might steer our cultural, social, and political values (not to mention our technological development) in a more positive direction.
For nearly a hundred years, Earth has sent radio signals into space. If anyone nearby is listening, …
Of course, erring on the side of caution is not always a bad thing. As Vakoch himself admits, a central aim of this project is to test a potential solution to the Fermi Paradox. But if there’s one thing the Great Silence has taught us is, it’s that the Galaxy is completely empty of observable extraterrestrial intelligence. At about 13 billion years old, and measuring just 150 million light years across, a single ancient interstellar civilization could have populated every single star system in the Milky Way by now, and then some. The Fermi Paradox isn’t just an idle philosophical problem—it’s actually quite terrifying. There’s something going on out there that’s preventing ETIs from overtly colonizing the Galaxy. We don’t know what that “something” is, but it’s not irrational to be worried about it.
Advertisement

Vakoch, on the other hand, says we need to be alert of our biases that lead to fear.
“We have a lot of things to fear in our world today. Nation is pitted against nation. We are destroying our environment. It would be comforting to think that the biggest threat to our survival is from some malevolent alien out there that can be thwarted by simply staying quiet,” he told Gizmodo. “I wish I could say that somehow humanity would be safer if we simply avoided any intentional transmissions to GJ 273, but in good conscience, I can’t.”
[Sónar Calling]


Yesterday, the National Science Foundation announced that they’ll keep the storied Arecibo telescope running in the wake of the Hurricane Maria damage.
The NSF concluded that the best way forward was to collaborate with “new stakeholders” who will both use and maintain the facility, according to the Record of Decision. There could be some potential demolitions of buildings on the site, but funding will continue.
Advertisement

“This is great news,” said Abel Mendez, planetary astrobiologist at the University of Puerto Rico, Arecibo. “We hope to continue our science at the observatory.”
The iconic Arecibo telescope has been struggling financially for many years now. September’s devastating strike from Hurricane Maria could have been the last straw, but the telescope received its repairs and began limited observations once again only a week later. The facility is still running on diesel generators and there’s millions more dollars of fixes required, according to a Nature report.
Under this decision, the NSF will decrease funding from $8.2 to $2 million annually over the next five years as it looks for new partners, writes Nature.
Arecibo is now the second largest single-dish filled telescope behind the FAST telescope in China, but it can still make observations of rotating neutron stars (a.k.a. pulsars), exoplanets, and even assist with gravitational wave astronomy. And having a second dish is important—scientists feel much more confident about discoveries when two different experiments independently spot the same thing.
Mendez was just excited to continue doing science. He said: “I feel that this is a new life.”
[via Nature]


One nice thing about teddy bears is that if your dog tears the head off of your child’s favorite one, you can just sew it back on. But you don’t proclaim your achievement a “wild success”—rather, you say, “here, I have fixed your lifeless play-thing.”
Yet here comes Sergio Canavero, the controversial Italian doctor who just announced that he had performed a head transplant operation on a teddy bear made of bone-stuffed human meat. The announcement has come with an avalanche of news coverage claiming that the move was the first successful head transplant.
Advertisement

Scientists have been toying with the idea for about as long as organ transplantation has been around. Canavero himself announced human transplants would be possible in 2015. He says that research centers in the United States are unsupportive, reports USA Today. He claimed he performed the surgery on a monkey in 2016 but without reattaching the spinal cord and without a published paper. He went on to publish several papers claiming to sever and reattach animal spinal cords, but the papers don’t make clear whether he completely detaches or only mostly cuts through the cord before the procedure. These papers also didn’t have controls. His team published another paper this year, but once again didn’t report whether they completely severed the head.
Needless to say, scientists are skeptical.
This morning, Canavero claimed in a press conference that he’d “realized the first human head transplant,” reports The Telegraph, and that a “full head swap between brain dead organ donors is the next stage.” He followed by calling a full-on head transplant “imminent.”
If you cut a tumor out of a corpse, you did not cure the corpse of cancer—you carved a slice of meat off of a raw roast. If you swap cadaver heads, it’s no different from sewing a drumstick to the wrong rotisserie chicken.
USA Today reports that Canavero has a volunteer, a paralyzed Russian named Valery Spridonov, and that the procedure would go as follows:
Recipient and donor will placed [sic] in a sitting position to facilitate what’s expected to be more about 24 hours of gory, laborious work to separate and then reconnect vertebral bones, jugular veins, the trachea, esophagus and other neck structures. The recipient will be helped to breathe, and blood pumped around the body, with machines. The patient will be kept in drug-induced coma for an unspecified recovery time.
It’s totally possible that everything Canavero has done is honest, a head transplant is imminent, his procedure will work, and our skepticism is unwarranted. After all, he’s pretty much the only person who is doing this procedure, and ultimately crazy ideas are required to push boundaries.
Advertisement

But this is science. Very little study has been done on this procedure or its risks. And with something so radical, if it’s not studied in an open, honest, and realistic way, then it’s hard for others to take it seriously. So until we see some evidence of an actual head transplant where a spine is completely severed and reattached on something other than raw meat, we’re going to remain skeptical.
[via The Telegraph, USA Today]


Although mirrors have been around for thousands of years, a German chemist named Justus von Liebig made a breakthrough in 1835 that would make the modern manufacture of them possible. Add some sugar to ammoniated silver nitrate, pour it onto glass,  and blammo: you’ve got yourself a mirror.
It’s slightly more complicated than that, if only because silver nitrate is highly poisonous. But artist Dave Smith makes it look easy in this recent Instagram post:

Here’s a clearer view of the finished product:

The process looks even cooler when Smith pours the liquid metal substance onto glue-chipped glass, producing beautiful patterns:

Science is cool! So is art!


A planet whole solar system is going to destroy the Earth during September October, uh, any time now, if the usual doomsday conspiracy people are to be believed. And if you’re hoping to survive this calamity, you should probably know what’s going on.
A few months ago, I wrote that you should stop wasting my time with this Planet X/Nibiru doomsday conspiracy theory bullshit. But then I fell down the rabbit hole. I read dozens of Nibiru stories. I couldn’t get enough. I finally understood why I was angry in the first place—I was initially expecting more from National Enquirer-equivalents amplified as authorities in Google’s trending science news section.
Holy shit, stop, please stop. When a crazy person says something crazy in real life, we ignore…
Just a few real news sites peddle original Nibiru content, including The Sun, The Daily Express, The Daily Mail, The Daily Star, and The Daily Mirror. They’re some of the most-read papers in the United Kingdom, but they’re also red-top tabloids, newspapers “characterized by sensationalism.” While this statistic is now outdated, almost 70 percent of British people distrusted these newspapers in 2012, according to a survey published in The Guardian. They post flashy stories based on  YouTube comments, Quora posts, and in one instance, “Someonesbones.com.” The papers have lower editorial standards.
“I agree,” former Gizmodo writer Libby Watson, who is British, told me.
“I can’t stand them because they’re sensationalist claptrap,” James Whitbrook, io9 Staff Writer who is also British, told me. “I’d say it’s like The National Enquirer, yeah. People would be quick to judge it as bollocks.” I reached out to writers at all of the tabloids, none of whom have replied to requests for comments.
Advertisement

If you read Gizmodo, you know that Nibiru is fake. Mostly everyone (spare the usual crazy people) knows Nibiru is fake—literally look at the sky and tell me if you see an entire solar system. If you think Nibiru is real, you are far beyond my help. And sadly, doomsday conspiracy theories will probably never go away.
But you can’t tell me it’s not a gripping story. It’s Men in Black meets War of the Worlds. It’s got everything: The Sun is a NASA-created simulation, but it’s also dying. The sky is changing and governments are doing nothing about it. SpaceX knows the truth—of course they do. A mini solar system is coming. We know it’s true because people can hear trumpet-like noises. NASA has evacuated the ISS but won’t “tell the truth.” The Earth is starting to wobble. North Korea is going to nuke the Yellowstone Volcano because, well, Nibiru. Here’s a video of it, apparently. There is so much more and I can’t get enough.
A Google spokesperson told me that they do treat  The Daily Express, at least, as bona fide news. I asked her about Nibiru appearing in the trending news results, and she said it was up to these news organizations what to write about. She also pointed out in an email that “You will see from this link there are many debunking this at the top of the page.”
Anyway, Nibiru is fake news, and we’ve all got to be discerning about where we get our news and how much trust we put into sources. But at this point, I’m starting to enjoy the excitement of an impending armageddon to distract me from whatever else.


New observations of nearby pulsars—lighthouse-like neutron stars beaming energy—seem to have deepened a mystery that’s been bugging scientists for around a decade. The Earth is being hit with too much antimatter from outer space, and no one is sure why.
Super high-energy radiation from outer space bombards this planet daily. These “cosmic rays” can have energies as high as the particles made by the biggest physics experiment. But there’s a peculiarity to those rays, called the “positron excess.” These new results cast doubt on a previous hypothesis for the excess’ origin. This leaves room for even stranger ideas—maybe even the elusive dark matter.
Advertisement

“The most remarkable thing that we could highlight here is that for the first time we’ve performed a measurement and calculation of the positron flux,” Rubén López-Coto from the National Institute of Nuclear Physics in Italy told Gizmodo, “and got the opposite of what most people thought.”
You may be aware that there’s way more matter than antimatter, mirror-image particles of the same mass but the opposite charge as their partner. Yet scientists spotted a “positron excess,” too many antimatter electrons in the constant bombardment of cosmic rays, back in 2008. They built a new experiment, called the High-Altitude Water Cherenkov (HAWC) Observatory to understand these mysterious particles.
HAWC consists of a number of steel vats filled with water in Mexico. When a cosmic ray passes through, it creates a flash of blue light like the light equivalent of a sonic boom, since the speed of light is slower in water than in air.
Another team of scientists using previous HAWC measurements thought that two pulsars around a thousand light years away, called Geminga and PSR B0656+14, could explain the excess. But now, HAWC has released new measurements in the journal Science observing these pulsar’s high energy gamma ray light. The HAWC scientists used this data to make calculations implying that the positrons would have lost too much energy while traveling through the magnetic fields between the pulsars and Earth.
One scientist not involved in the study, Tim Linden from The Ohio State University, told Gizmodo that the paper was extremely exciting. The new result “has the potential to be transformative in our understanding of how high energy gamma rays are produced,” he said, “and moreover how high energy cosmic rays, in particular cosmic ray electrons [and positrons] propagate throughout the galaxy.”
However, Linden and his team thought HAWC results from earlier this year “strongly favor” the pulsar explanation. He points out that they performed the calculation of how these particles radiate through space differently, using different assumptions. Whether or not Geminga could have contributed to the excess depends on this assumption, he said.
When I mentioned the differing interpretations, López-Coto defended their assumption as making sense, and said that HAWC scientists won’t rule out pulsars completely. “It’s only that we are ruling out these two sources,” and cosmic rays taking different paths through the galaxy might give different results. Even still, there are other possibilities for the source—what if the positrons are coming from processes scientists don’t understand, like dark matter? This is one possibility, but López-Coto wouldn’t say it’s the favored one—all this paper seeks to do is rule out the two pulsars.
Advertisement

Regardless of their differing interpretations of the data, scientists think their mystery will find a solution soon. Linden said: “HAWC is going to be the telescope that tells us what produces the positron excess.”
[Science]


For the native species of New Zealand, European settlement was particularly cruel. The country has no endemic land predators, so many of its birds evolved without the typical avian aptitude for flight. Then came Western settlers, and along with them rats, mice, opossums, stoats, cats, and the occasional misbehaving dog. For these invaders, New Zealand’s flightless birds were a veritable feast. Numbers dwindled. Despite conservation efforts, the country still loses about 20 of its namesake kiwi birds every week.
Then, in 2014, a young Harvard scientist published a paper that caught the attention of conservationists around the world, New Zealand included. Using the genetic engineering technique CRISPR, he suggested that scientists could create something called a gene drive to override natural selection’s typical 50-50 mix. Among other things, this technique might be used to engineer invasive pests to breed themselves out of existence. No kiwi-killing stoats. Presto.
Advertisement

Earlier this year, typically GMO-wary New Zealand signaled it was interested in giving gene drives a whirl. Now, a pair of papers published Thursday suggest there’s just one potentially significant hitch: Gene drives do not appear to be safe to use for conservation—at least not yet.
The problem, it turns out, is that gene drives might actually work a little too well.
“Our models show that standard  drive systems are highly invasive,” Kevin Esvelt, the synthetic biologist who published the original CRISPR gene drive paper back in 2014, told Gizmodo.
Gene drives thwart natural selection by creating a “selfish gene” that gets passed down to offspring with more consistency than the rules of inheritance typically allow, eventually—in theory—spreading through an entire population. If New Zealand decided to use a gene drive to rid itself of rats, for example, it’s possible that those genetically altered rats would eventually make their way to other unintended locations, either by stowing away on ships like they did to get to New Zealand in the first place or by other humans not-so-keen on their own rat populations purposefully moving them.
“[Modified organisms] probably can’t be safely tested in the field because they’re likely to spread to most populations of the target species throughout the world,” Esvelt said.
As you might imagine, genetically altering the world’s entire rat population might wind up being a pretty big problem.
The notion of using genetic engineering to thwart natural selection was first proposed in 2003, but it was with the advent of CRISPR and Esvelt’s 2014 paper that the prospect of gene drives seemed within the realm of possibility.
Advertisement

The 2014 paper inspired a rush of enthusiasm and fear within the broader public, and spurred a heated debate within the scientific community about whether it would really work. Ever since first putting the idea out there, Esvelt has worked hard to warn the world just how dangerous it might be. He occupies a weird space: a scientist at the forefront of genetic engineering who is also probably the foremost critic of technology he creates.
Esvelt, who now has his own lab at MIT, said that the pair of papers published Thursday—one in PLoS, the other as a preprint on bioRxiv—amount to a “mea culpa” of sorts.
He said his original paper made a compelling case for all of the potential benefits of gene drives—conservation! eradicating disease!—without spelling out the risks and challenges clearly.
Advertisement

New Zealand is not the first place to get excited about gene drives for conservation. In Hawaii, for one, the idea has been floated as a solution to the disease-carrying mosquitoes that threaten native bird populations. Last year, the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity rejected calls for a global moratorium on gene drives, concluding that the potential benefits are too great to not proceed with “carefully controlled field trials.” A report from the National Academies of Sciences gave a cautious go-ahead to gene drives as well.
“I badly misled many conservationists who are desperately in need of hope,” Esvelt said. “My mistake was in miserably failing to communicate clearly.”
Some recent research has suggested that wild populations will naturally develop resistance to lab-engineered modifications before a gene drive really has a chance to work its magic. In one 2015 study, researchers reported  a CRISPR gene drive had allowed an infertility mutation in female mosquitoes to be passed on to all offspring, but as the mutation increased in frequency over several generations, resistance to the gene drive also emerged, making it unlikely for the mosquitoes to invade wild populations. But Esvelt has floated potential ways around this problem, such as inserting the gene drive gene at several important places in a species’ genome so that it’s unlikely to develop resistance. Even with an inefficient gene drive though, the bioRxiv paper suggests a model in which a small number of altered species could spread to unintended populations.
Advertisement

“This is part of an ongoing conversation about the balances of risk and benefits of gene drive technology,” said Jason Delborne, a scientist who works on gene drives at North Carolina State University who was not involved in the recent work. “These new papers signal that we should be even more cautious about gene drive technology.”
The PLoS paper, an opinion piece co-authored with New Zealand geneticist Neil Gemmell, warns that releasing a standard gene-drive is “likely equivalent to creating a new, highly invasive species.” In other words: It could be very, very bad.
“There are these natural mutations that will cause gene drive to stop working, that’s true. But the reason we’re concerned is people are already figuring out solutions to those natural mutations,” Gemmell said. “If you do that, then how do you stop it?”
Advertisement

Even experimenting in a contained lab could be dangerous. For example, if an engineered lab mouse escaped and that lab was in the vicinity of other mice it might breed with, the gene drive could spread accidentally. (An exception to all this, Esvelt said, might be engineering malaria-resistant mosquitoes, which most of the world might agree to even if there was a potential for the engineered mosquitoes to spread globally.)
“As it stands, there’s still a very large gap in understanding between gene drives in the lab and gene drives in the field, and of course field trials are complicated by substantial ethical and political issues,” Gabriel Zentner, a scientist at Indiana University, told Gizmodo. “The article states that ‘now is the time to be bold in our caution,’ and I tend to agree.”
None of this means anyone is giving up hope on using gene drives as a tool for conservation. It’s just that excitement over the technology got a little ahead of the technology itself.
Advertisement

Esvelt and other scientists are working on developing systems that could limit the spread of a gene drive. One potential solution, proposed by Esvelt, creates limits to the number of generations that inherit an engineered trait. Another being developed by a group called the Genetic Biocontrol of Invasive Rodent’s Partnership seeks to find and target genetic sequences unique to a desired population so that the gene could not spread beyond it.
The hope is that these new papers move more scientists to focus efforts on designing localized or self-limiting drives that might one day actually have real-world applications, rather than experiment with standard drives that might be too dangerous to ever deploy.
“I think some of my colleagues think we just shot them in the foot. We’re still excited about what gene drive has to offer,” Gemmell said. “But the tools we have right now are not optimal. We need something you can turn on and off or has a finite life.”
Advertisement

In New Zealand, the gene drive is being considered as part of a bold plan announced in 2015 by the New Zealand government to eradicate all wild predators by 2050. Gemmell is part of the team of scientists exploring the use of the technology in New Zealand, and he said the early research can still proceed as planned, alongside work to develop a safer gene drive. There is currently no concrete plan to deploy a drive. Early stage research alone is likely to take years.
But, the PLoS paper points out, if any gene drive is ever to be deployed at all, transparent conversations about gene drive technology and its potential consequences need to happen with the public now.
In New Zealand, at least, that work has already begun. Predator-Free 2050, a company funded by the New Zealand government, has begun to fund social research into gene drives. The first results were published this week, finding that 32 percent of the 8,000 New Zealanders surveyed were comfortable gene drives, while 18 percent felt they should never be used, and 50 percent were undecided.
Advertisement

“This is a technology that socially and ethically we’re unprepared for, but technologically, we can do,” Gemmell said. “That’s disturbing. These conversations are overdue.”
[PLoS, bioRxiv]


Astronomer Abel Méndez‏ from the Planetary Habitability Laboratory at the University of Puerto Rico has put together a Periodic Table of Exoplanets, where each of the 3,700 confirmed exoplanets is slotted into its own discrete category—including planets that could harbor life.
Since the discovery of the first exoplanet in 1992, astronomers have cataloged thousands of distant worlds. Like snowflakes, no two planets are the same, ranging in size, composition, and distance from their respective host stars. Some of these planets resemble the ones found in our own Solar System, while others are completely alien, exhibiting features typically found in tawdry, LSD-inspired science fiction novels.
Advertisement

To make sense of it all, Méndez‏ has created a chart that neatly pigeon-holes each known exoplanet into one of 18 categories. Which makes sense. We’re starting to see some patterns emerging in the data such that we can brand these exoplanets as belonging to certain types, such as “warm subterrans,” “cold Neptunes,” and “Hot Jovians.”
At the broadest scale, Méndez‏ distinguishes planets according to their temperature, or distance from the host star, placing worlds in one of three zones: the Hot Zone, Warm Zone, or the Cold Zone. For astrobiologists, the Warm Zone is the most significant, as it represents the swath of space in a stellar system where life is likely to emerge. That said, the concept of the “habitable zone” may be a bit of a misnomer, as life may be able to emerge outside of this area, such as on moons in orbit around gas giants.
The table also organizes the planets according to size, including various forms of terrestrial, rocky planets (which Méndez‏ refers to as “terrans”), and gassy exoplanets resembling Neptune and Jupiter. Each planet has a number assigned to it, representing the number of known worlds of that type known to astronomers. So for example, we know of 599 “Hot Terrans” and 285 “Cold Jovians.” A percentage value is placed in the bottom-left corner of each box to signify the proportion of each.
“We know of over 3,700 planets around other stars. They are very diverse,” Méndez‏ told Gizmodo. “We can roughly classify them by their size and temperature. Only warm planets with the right size, similar to Earth, might provide some of the conditions for extraterrestrial life.”
Looking at the chart, 53 planets (31 Warm Superterrans, 21 Warm Terrans, and one Warm Subterran) have the right size and temperature to potentially foster life, and exhibit features such as liquid surface on the water and a stable atmosphere. “Unfortunately, we don’t know yet if they also have the right amount of water (e.g. oceans) or the right atmosphere for life too,” said Méndez‏.
He explained that most are hot planets, but that’s not because they’re necessarily the most common, but because they’re easier to detect. Once we improve the size and sensitivity of telescopes, Méndez‏ expects astronomers to find more cold planets.
Advertisement

Small planets appear to be the most common, especially super-Earths and Mini-Neptunes, that is, exoplanets slightly larger than Earth, but smaller than Neptune or Uranus. Most known stellar systems have at least one planet, but Méndez‏ says this might be an observational bias as planets are hard to detect. We know of at least three systems with seven planets, for instance, and there are hints of many more.
To that point, and at the top right corner of the chart, Méndez‏ lists the number of known stellar systems according to the number of exoplanets they contain (e.g. we’ve discovered 46 star systems with four planets). Importantly, these systems could contain more planets still waiting to be discovered.
“I’m overwhelmed by the number and diversity of planets in the stars around us. So many places to explore in our own Solar System, but much more is waiting for us beyond,” Méndez‏ told Gizmodo. “I won’t be very surprised by another planet with life, Earth is the example that this is possible. I will be more surprised by something we haven’t seen before.”
[Planetary Habitability Laboratory]


With the advent of modern technologies, the field of regenerative medicine has truly begun to approach its full potential.
Case in point: In recent months, the Food and Drug Administration has approved cutting edge treatments that genetically modify cells in order to treat devastating diseases. On Thursday, the agency announced a plan intended to speed up the approval process for what the agency is calling “regenerative medicine,” at the same time that it also plans to crack down on bad actors.
Advertisement

“These concepts are no longer the stuff of science fiction, but rather real-life science where cells and tissues can be engineered to grow healthy, functional organs to replace diseased ones; where new genes can be introduced into the body to combat disease; and where adult stem cells can generate replacements for cells that are lost to injury or illness,” FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in a statement. “The promise of this technology is why the FDA is so committed to encouraging and supporting innovation in this field.”
The new policy framework, outlined in four guidance documents, aims to clarify how modern therapies or products are regulated under policies that were created before many of today’s biomedical technologies even existed, in order to hopefully make the regulatory process smoother. It additionally outlines how the FDA plans to evaluate safety and effectiveness, as well as how it plans to crack down on products that trigger significant safety concerns (ahem, stem cell clinics).
“The rapid growth and promise of this field has increasingly sowed the ground for the entry of some unscrupulous actors, who have opportunistically seized on the clinical potential of regenerative medicine to make deceptive claims to patients about unproven and, in some cases, dangerous products,” Gottlieb said. “By exploiting the lack of consumer understanding of this area, as well as the fear and uncertainties posed by the diseases these bad actors claim to treat, they’re jeopardizing the legitimacy and advancement of the entire field.”
Those guidelines are final.
The second part of the framework aims to speed development and approval of new therapies. Two of the documents, submitted as drafts that must go through a public comment period before final approval, outline a plan intended to deliver on promises of the 21st Century Cures Act that would “simplify and streamline” regulatory requirements for regenerative medicine therapies and allow some to receive an expedited review.
“We must advance a modern, efficient and least burdensome framework that recognizes the breakneck speed of advancement in the products we’re being asked to evaluate, while ensuring patient safety,” Gottlieb said. “That is the goal of the policy we’re announcing today.”
This announcement may be an example of what the FDA commissioner recently called “deregulating by regulating.” Earlier this month, he announced a similar approach to genetic health tests and in September unveiled the “FDA Pre-Cert” pilot program to regulate digital health products.


Well, this is it. We’ve finally gotten to the point where observing two black holes slamming together, possibly the most way-out physics-based idea one could wrap their head around, has become “routine.” How did we get here?
The LIGO Scientific Collaboration has announced the observation of another pair of colliding black holes from  June 8, 2017. But rather than secret results followed by a public announcement and press brouhaha, they dropped the unpublished results on the physics preprint server, the arXiv. Single gravitational wave events are probably no longer huge news stories—but that’s not a bad thing.
Advertisement

This detection consisted of two black holes—one seven and one 12 times the mass of the sun, merging into an 18 solar mass black hole that’s about 1.1 billion light years away. Two LIGO detectors, one in Washington State and the other in Louisiana, spotted these ripples in space time. You may remember that those detectors make detections by splitting beams of light, sending them down several-kilometer-long pipes, matching them back up, and watching in a detector how they wobble and interfere with one another.
You may notice that the last two LIGO announcements were based on events detected in August. The scientists delayed this announcement since the other two discoveries took more time. One required analysis from Virgo, the European gravitational wave detector that only began taking data on August 1, and the other was the “kilonova” where over 70 observatories around the world spotted the light waves that accompanied a different kind of event: colliding neutron stars.
At this point, these detections have become pretty routine. “I think we feel now that with the black hole binaries—unless we come across something that is qualitatively different then it really has started to become cataloguing if you like,” Ken Strain from Glasgow University told the BBC.
That’s not to say this detection is without value. These were the lightest black holes detected by gravitational waves and the first event to match up with black holes indirectly observed with light rays, according to a press release.
But more importantly, much of what scientists hope to learn about black holes will require statistics—many observations to compare data to theory. That includes how and where in their parent galaxy these pairs form, and even if certain kinds of dark matter exists that would change the way black holes spin.
Advertisement

So, this incredibly wild thing is now just a regular part of physics. We’ve truly entered a new age of astronomy.
[arXiv]


President Donald Trump’s administration is preparing to reverse a Barack Obama-era ban on the importation of elephant trophies from Zimbabwe and Zambia to the U.S., ABC News reported on Wednesday, in a remarkably petty attack on rules intended to protect species registered under the Endangered Species Act.
According to ABC News, a U.S. Fish and Wildlife official confirmed the proposed rule change, which is officially intended to reflect new information from in-country officials that “hunting actually benefits conservation for that species.” As Newsweek noted, initial announcements from the Department of Interior “does not include research that supports that view.” But the department did tout “economic benefits that result from U.S. citizens traveling to foreign nations to engage in hunting” as well as benefits to “human populations” from American visitation.
Advertisement

Fish and Wildlife originally implemented the trophy-importation ban in 2015, citing its “inability to determine that the killing of the animal whose trophy is intended for import into the United States would enhance the survival of the species in the wild.” As National Geographic noted at the time, African traffic hunting is ostensibly intended to prevent poaching by providing economic support to locals, though “the money from hunt fees that trickles down to needy villagers is minimal.” It added that Zimbabwe and Zambia, as well as six other countries, allow sport hunting regardless of the decline in elephant populations, and that research suggests encouraging conservation-friendly tourist activities would better promote the survival of the species.
As ABC News noted, savanna elephant populations dropped 30 percent from 2007 to 2014 in 18 African countries. Research from Democrats on the House Natural Resources Committee has suggested that rampant corruption and poorly managed wildlife programs mean the fees from big game hunting tend to dissipate without helping the species involved, and in fact hunting speeds up the extinction of endangered species.
As the Washington Examiner noted, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke recently formed a council which is exploring once again allowing the importation of trophies from other animals including lions.
Sport hunting is an activity primarily associated with the wealthy, with Scientific American noting that the intent of the activity seems to be for rich foreigners to signal their privilege and influence. That description would seem to apply to the president’s sons, who are really fond of showing off photos of themselves posing alongside dead exotic wildlife, but hey—surely that or Zinke’s attachment to a vision of conservation that puts its fetish for big guns first couldn’t have played a role in this decision, right?
Update 11/17/17: On Thursday, White House spokesperson Sarah Sanders emphasized that no “finalized” announcement had been on the trophy policy, seemingly walking back on the Fish and Wildlife spokesperson’s confirmation to ABC News.
“There hasn’t been an announcement that’s been finalized on this front,” said Sanders. “Until that’s done I wouldn’t consider anything final.”
[ABC News]


During sex, female praying mantises have a tendency to kill their partners with a decapitating cutting blow that would make a samurai proud. But as this shocking new video shows, just because a male doesn’t have a head doesn’t mean he still can’t get it on.
The entirety of this gorgeous new Deep Look video about praying mantises is worth watching, but the nasty business starts around the 3:00 mark. The female chops off the male’s head during the courting stage, but like the horny insectoid zombie that it is, the male—sans head—continues to mate with the female, mounting her and delivering the sperm that will fertilize her eggs.

As explained in the video, the male’s body is still being controlled by nerves in its abdomen, and “it can still get the job done.”
Advertisement

Biologists refer to this behavior as sexual cannibalism, and the mantis female doesn’t do this out of spite or as some kind of mindlessly random act. A State University of New York-Fredonia paper from last year showed that males who get consumed by their mates are actually at a reproductive advantage. From a “selfish gene” perspective, this is actually good news for the mantis dude. As the study showed, females who eat their partners are able to produce more than twice the number of eggs than those who don’t.
Of course, males who survive mating could produce multiple times with other partners, so clearly there’s some evolutionary tension here. As this video shows, biology is messy, and it’s never satisfied with a single approach to survival.
[Deep Look/PBS Digital Studios/KQED via Digg]


Did you actually read all the works you cited in your high school and college papers? If not, you’re probably not the only one. Because a non-existent paper seems to have been cited over four hundred times by supposedly reputable research.
Leiden University professor Pieter Kroonenberg found the “phantom reference” in a nonexistent journal while hunting for an article on writing scientific articles, according to a post on the blog Retraction Watch. Middlesex University professor Anne-Wil Harzing dug into the issue and found that the article was a made-up citation from the science publisher Elsevier to show authors how to cite works. It’s as if I pasted Lorem ipsum text into this article instead of a quote. Here’s the reference:
Van der Geer, J., Hanraads, J.A.J., Lupton, R.A., 2010. The art of writing a scientific article. J Sci. Commun. 163 (2) 51-59.
Most of the papers that cited the phantom reference were “fairly low-quality conference papers,” Harzing told Retraction Watch. But still, the four hundred all appeared on the reputable Web of Science that indexes scientific articles. The reference pops up over seven hundred times on a Google Scholar Search.
Advertisement

This probably isn’t a case of fraud. “We found it hilarious,” Retraction Watch’s cofounder, journalist, and past professor of mine Ivan Oransky told Gizmodo. The researchers told Retraction Watch that the reference was a mistake, “[but] it makes us sit up, take notice, and wonder how it happens. I would ascribe laziness and failure of quality control.”
Given the “publish-or-perish” attitude of science, there’s lots of places where lower quality work slips through, as well as journals preying on scientists who’ll pay to publish or don’t know any better. The presence of even more junk on the less-filtered Google Scholar results demonstrates that, well, there’s a lot of crap out there.
But in this case, since no one is outwardly committing fraud, Oransky hopes that this silly story will help continue the conversation about improving scientific publishing.
“If this is a story that makes it more comfortable for people to try and tackle [these issues] as opposed to out and out fraud, then I’m happy.”
[Retraction Watch]


For the first time, scientists have edited the DNA inside of a patient’s body, in an attempt to cure a genetic disorder by permanently changing the human genome. The news, reported Wednesday by the Associated Press, represents a major landmark in science.
Therapies that aim to treat disease by altering a patient’s genetics have made strides over the past year, but typically those therapies have relied on making any genetic changes outside of the human body, then transfusing the corrected cells into the patient. While allowing doctors to ensure the treatment causes no undesired effects before being put inside a patient’s body, the approach also limits treatment to conditions like blood cancers in which cells can easily be altered externally.
Advertisement

The AP reports that on Monday, 44-year-old  Brian Madeaux was hooked up to an IV that delivered billions of copies of a corrective gene into his body, along with a genetic tool called zinc finger proteins designed to cut his DNA in precisely the right spot to deliver the new genes. Madeux has a metabolic disease called Hunter syndrome and lacks an enzyme that breaks down certain carbohydrates. If all goes well, the corrective gene will make its way to his liver, where the zinc finger proteins will cut the gene responsible for the condition and insert the new copy. With the corrected gene, his body should be able to produce that crucial enzyme.
The first-of-its-kind therapy is made by Sangamo Therapeutics. Madeaux was treated at UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital in Oakland. He’s only the first patient in a clinical trial using the zinc finger nucleases technique (an older alternative to CRISPR) to treat Hunter syndrome. Two additional trials are underway that use the same liver-targeted genome editing strategy to treat hemophilia B and a condition called Hurler syndrome.
The AP reported that only 1 percent of Madeux’s liver cells would need to be corrected in order to effectively treat the disease. In three months, they’ll know for certain whether it’s working.
But, as will any new technology, there still could be unforseen consequences.
“How bulletproof is the technology?” Dr. Carl June, a University of Pennsylvania scientist not affiliated with the study, told the AP. “We’re just learning.”


In preparation for NASA’s next robotic mission to Mars, the space station has performed a successful test of a special parachute that’s designed to withstand the intense speeds involved during an atmospheric descent.
The test, called the Advanced Supersonic Parachute Inflation Research Experiment, or ASPIRE, is a prelude to the real thing where NASA will use the supersonic parachute to land its next rover on the Red Planet. The space agency conducted its first test of the system on October 4, with the parachute deploying successfully at a mind-numbing speed of mach 1.8. So yeah, this isn’t just any ordinary parachute, as NASA’s new video makes clear.

For the test, a 58-foot-tall Black Brant IX sounding rocket was launched into the upper atmosphere from the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center’s Wallops Flight Facility. It carried a weighted payload in a bullet-nosed cylindrical structure, along with the parachute,  the deployment system, and  instruments (including a high-def camera) to collect test data.
Advertisement

When the rocket ascended to an altitude of 32 miles (51 km), it began to fall back towards Earth. Some 40 seconds later, at a height of 26 miles (42 km) and at a falling speed of 1,370 miles per hour (2,200 km/h), the system’s onboard computers determined that the test conditions were met. A hundred pounds of nylon and Kevlar were shot from the rear of the vehicle at nearly a hundred miles an hour. The parachute deployed successfully, and without major rips or tangles. Some 35 minutes later, the capsule splashed down in the Atlantic ocean.
“It is quite a ride,” Ian Clark, the test’s technical lead from NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said in a statement. “The imagery of our first parachute inflation is almost as breathtaking to behold as it is scientifically significant. For the first time, we get to see what it would look like to be in a spacecraft hurtling towards the Red Planet, unfurling its parachute.”
When this system is used in three years, the module containing the Mars 2020 rover will enter the atmosphere at over 12,000 miles per hour (20,000 km/h). Mars has lower gravity than Earth, plus a thinner atmosphere, so the conditions used during ASPIRE were not terribly far off from the real thing.
For this test, NASA scientists used a parachute very similar to the one used back in 2012 to delivery the Curiosity rover to Mars. But early next year, the space agency will test a strengthened version of the parachute that could be used in future Mars missions.
[NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory]


The Earth, the Sun,  Andromeda galaxy, they’ve all been around for as long as you can remember and as long as humanity has been around. So when a new light suddenly shows up in the distance, it’s a weird occurrence. But a newly detected explosion could be one of the weirdest—and it’s not the only one.
An international team of scientists is reporting a new kind of explosion that they can’t quite explain, billions of light years away. Maybe it’s a supernova. Or maybe it’s a star being eaten by a black hole. Or maybe it’s something entirely different.
Advertisement

“I’m a supernova person to start with so I got really thrilled that this could be the most energetic supernova ever,” Peter Lundqvist from Stockholm University in Sweden told Gizmodo. “But I had second thoughts.”
The brightest of the new sources is called PS1-10adi, an outburst of energy a thousand times brighter than a normal supernova near the center of a distant galaxy. It was about as bright as its host galaxy.
This explosion appeared in telescopic surveys of the distance Universe, including Pan-STARRS1 in Hawaii. The researchers followed up with other telescopes and watched the source’s light flare, then fade regularly for a thousand days. Typical supernovae dim after around 200 days.
While completing their survey, the researchers found an entire population of explosions just like PS1-10adi. They say these explosions were incorrectly associated with black hole activity at the center of these galaxies, according to the paper published in Nature Astronomy on Monday.
Aside from incredibly bright supernovae, the scientists proposed it could be an entirely new kind of tidal disruption event—an event where a black hole eats a star. Perhaps the high-density environments surrounding supermassive black holes can create the ripe conditions for different kinds of explosions.
But no matter what PS1-10adi is, it’s definitely interesting.
[Nature Astronomy]


When scientists discovered an Earth-like planet orbiting our closest star, Proxima Centauri b, Gizmodo said it could have been the discovery of the century. But today, scientists are announcing a new exoplanet only 11 light years away that could be even more important.
A team of European scientists named their planet Ross 128 after the star it orbits, Ross 128. It has a projected mass 1.35 times Earth’s and might even have comfortable surface temperatures. Scientists won’t call it habitable just yet, but the observation is promising
Advertisement

“It’s more exciting than Proxima Centauri b,” Emily Rice, research associate in astrophysics at the American Museum of Natural History told Gizmodo. “The star is quieter and less active...it will be easier to characterize than Proxima b.
The researchers took 157 observations of Ross 128 with the HARPS spectrograph, or as the European Southern Observatory calls it, “the planet hunter of ground-based astronomy” in the Chilean desert. The planet doesn’t transit, or pass in front of its star from our point of view, so HARPS must instead measure velocities based on the spectrum of observed light. This time around, the instrument detected the planet with an orbit of 9.9 days, around 20 times closer to its star than the Earth is to the Sun.
There are lots of reasons to have hope about Ross 128 b. The less-active Ross 128 star could make Ross 128 b easier to study than Proxima Centauri b. The planet may be as cold as -76 degrees F, but it might be as nice as 69 degrees F depending on assumptions of how much light it reflects. The broad temperature spread means that scientists won’t call it a “habitable” planet just yet. “It is probably preferable to refer to Ross 128 b as a temperate planet,” the study’s authors write in the study published today in Astronomy & Astrophysics.
Other researchers found the observations convincing. “The results are credible and exciting,” Avi Loeb, chair of the Harvard Astronomy Department, told Gizmodo in an email. “I see no reason to doubt it,” Guillem Anglada-Escude, one of the Proxima Centauri b discoverers from Queen Mary University of London, told Gizmodo in an email. But everyone I spoke to pointed out that only one instrument, HARPS, has made the observation. “It would be good to have independent confirmation with something else,” said Anglada-Escude. “We are already working on this.” The new paper’s authors did not respond to a Gizmodo request for comment.
Perhaps most exciting is the reminder that these teeny M dwarf stars like Proxima Centauri, Ross 128 and TRAPPIST-1 could be ideal places to spot Earth-like planets, rather than stars like the Sun. Ross 128 is only 17 percent the Sun’s mass and 20 percent its radius. And there’s a whole lot of potential for observing these stars. “They’re literally all over the place,” said Rice. “It’s so much parameter space that we haven’t explored, like the size of these stars and the size of these planets. You don’t just want one. You want a bunch of them to figure out the general properties of these things.
Further observations will better characterize these planets’ potential atmospheres. Observations with the new James Webb Space Telescope will probably be “prohibitively expensive,” though other telescopes like the Very Large Telescopes may be able to take on the job.
Advertisement

You may have also heard of the Yuri Milner Breakthrough Initiative to develop a craft to visit Alpha Centauri. Rice wondered why we don’t just visit Ross 128 and its planet instead. “If we get the technology to send something at 10 (or 20) percent the speed of light, it’s not that much more of an investment to send something three times further away,” she said. “They’re already doing something wacky, why not try something three times wackier.”
[Astronomy & Astrophysics]


Yesterday, the Nonhuman Rights Project filed a petition on behalf of three elephants being kept at a Connecticut zoo. The suit demands that the court recognize these animals as “legal persons” and release them to sanctuary, but given that the same legal team failed to secure similar personhood rights for chimps in New York, it’s not immediately clear how successful the new effort will be.
The trio of elephants, Beulah, Karen, and Minnie, never asked for legal representation, but the lawyer in charge of the NhRP suit, Steven Wise, argues that they’re legal persons with the fundamental right to bodily liberty, or in the parlance of lawyers, habeas corpus. The three elephants, ranging in age from 45 to 50, were captured as wild animals when they were young and have been used for decades in traveling circuses, fairs, and even birthday parties. The elephants are currently held at Commerford Zoo in Goshen, CT, and should the NhRP win the suit, the animals would be allowed to retire at the Animal Welfare Society’s ARK 2000 natural habitat sanctuary.
Advertisement

According to a NhRP press release, it’s the first-ever nonhuman rights lawsuit filed on behalf of captive elephants. Unlike efforts elsewhere to recognize the “personhood” of corporations, rivers and natural parks, Wise’s team is claiming that the elephants are bona fide persons—that is, living creatures that are actually capable of self-awareness, empathy, and a sense of the passage of time. In the United States, animals are regarded as property, but should a species be granted personhood rights (which hasn’t happened), individual animals would no longer be subject to such things as confinement at zoos and aquatic theme parks, medical experimentation, trafficking, and other hardships. Importantly, it doesn’t mean they’d be allowed to vote or take out a mortgage. Legal persons are deserving of what ethicists and philosophers call “negative rights,” which means they have a right to not be subjected to an action of another person or group.
To make its case, the NhRP collected affidavits  from nearly a dozen prominent elephant experts, including Lucy Bates, an Honorary Research Fellow at the University of St Andrews, and Richard M. Byrne, a research professor from the University of St Andrews.
“Our understanding of elephants has only deepened over time: for example, we know they have a sense of self, remember the past and plan for the future, engage in complex communication, show empathy, and mourn their dead,” David Zabel, the NhRP’s local counsel in Connecticut and a partner at the law firm of Cohen & Wolf, said in a statement. “But their legal status as ‘things’ with no rights has remained exactly the same. What’s at stake here is the freedom of beings who are no less self-aware and autonomous than we humans are.”
Kerry Bowman, a bioethicist at the University of Toronto, says this latest case is a clear indication of the growing cultural shift in attitudes toward nonhuman life. “This is a truly valid question for the courts of Connecticut as elephants are both sentient and sapient,” he told Gizmodo.
“They used to bark at me when I walked into the courtroom,” lawyer Steven Wise said in the Sundance …
This case in Connecticut isn’t the NhRP’s first rodeo. It’s the same group that filed chimpanzee rights cases in New York starting in 2013, ultimately failing in its objective. Earlier this year, an appeals court put the final nail in the coffin on the NhRP’s chimp effort, stating:
The asserted cognitive and linguistic capabilities of chimpanzees do not translate to a chimpanzee’s capacity or ability, like humans, to bear legal duties, or to be held legally accountable for their actions. [...]
Petitioner argues that the ability to acknowledge a legal duty or legal responsibility should not be determinative of entitlement to habeas relief, since, for example, infants cannot comprehend that they owe duties or responsibilities and a comatose person lacks sentience, yet both have legal rights. This argument ignores the fact that these are still human beings, members of the human community.
The court basically concluded that humans are persons because they’re humans, and that chimps aren’t persons because they’re not humans. Wise has, quite justifiably, construed this as a mistake, and has decided to continue his team’s efforts in both New York and Connecticut, while also broadening the scope to include elephants.
Advertisement

“While each jurisdiction has different statutes and judicial decisions, the substantive law of Connecticut is not that different from that of New York,” Wise explained to Gizmodo. “Therefore we are making substantially similar arguments on behalf of the three elephants. As part of our memorandum to the court we carefully dissect any adverse court decisions in New York so as to demonstrate that they are not only plainly wrong under Connecticut law but plainly wrong under New York law.”
Wise believes that some of the New York courts got their own law wrong and issued decisions that were “remarkable for being unique in the English-speaking world.” For example, Wise says the definition of “personhood” used in the NY courts were pulled from Black’s Law Dictionary—a definition that the dictionary later disavowed. “[We] brought this disavowal to the attention of the court,” said Wise. “Still the court relied upon it.” Wise believes that the New York judges were hearing personhood arguments for the first time, and that it’ll take some time for the concept to become normalized in legal discourse.
As for the change in state, Wise says that “Connecticut was chosen for the specific reason that its law of liberty, equality, autonomy, and habeas corpus are likely more favorable to us than might be the law of many other states. If the Connecticut courts follow their own law, which some judges did not do for their own reasons in New York, we expect to do well. But again, this is a matter of first impression in Connecticut as it was in New York.”
Advertisement

Speaking to The Washington Post, Richard L. Cupp, a Pepperdine law school professor who’s critical of the NhRP’s approach, argued that the best way to protect animals is through animal welfare laws.
“It would not surprise me if these [elephants] could be put in a better situation,” Cupp told WaPo. “But we should focus on human responsibility, either by making sure that our laws are enforced, which sometimes they’re not, or expanding our laws. Our expansion of animal protection laws has been dramatic over the last 20 or 30 years. I’m arguing that should continue.”
Wise, on the other hand, says “this is not an animal welfare case,” and that the three elephants have been deprived of their freedom.
Advertisement

Clearly, this isn’t an issue that’s going away anytime soon. In addition to recognizing the personhood of qualifying nonhuman animals, our technologies may eventually get to the point when we’ll have to start recognizing the moral worth of artificial intelligence and robots. It would be incumbent upon us to get this figured out before we take the monumental step of imbuing sentience into a machine.
[Nonhuman Rights Project]


The data that fitness trackers collect about your body goes far beyond just how many steps you’ve taken, and researchers are just beginning to understand how to harness all that valuable data-collecting power.
A new study from the health startup Cardiogram and UCSF suggests that off-the-shelf wearables like the Apple Watch and Fitbit could be used to accurately detect common conditions like hypertension and sleep apnea. It’s only the latest example in a string of recent studies in which researchers have tapped into the biosensors of wearables to turn them into devices that can detect and monitor serious health conditions.
Advertisement

In the new study, presented on Monday at the American Heart Association’s annual Scientific Sessions, over 6,000 users of the Cardiogram app were recruited to participate in UCSF’s Health eHeart Study. Of them, 2,230 participants had been diagnosed with hypertension and 1,016 had sleep apnea. Researchers trained a machine learning algorithm called DeepHeart on data from 70 percent of participants, both those with sleep apnea and hypertension and those without. They then tested the algorithm on the remaining 30 percent of participants. About 90 percent of the time it was able to accurately detect those with sleep apnea; 82 percent of the time it accurately detected hypertension.
That level of accuracy, the researchers concluded, was high enough to serve as an initial screening, with a traditional doctor’s diagnosis getting the final say. The idea is that your Fitbit or AppleWatch’s heart rate sensor would automatically, constantly screen for those conditions, and flag you to visit the doctor if the algorithm detected anything abnormal.
This was the second collaboration between UCSF and Cardiogram. In their first effort, they similarly found that the Apple Watch could detect a serious but often symptomless type of heart arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation.
In another recent study, researchers at Stanford University designed an algorithm that can sift through hours of heart rhythm data gathered by wearable monitors to determine whether a patient has an irregular heartbeat.
Part of the goal of the work is to determine whether technology like the Apple Watch can even be useful for health at all.
“Simply marketing this as health tech is not sufficient. Companies should be working with clinical researchers to figure out unmet healthcare needs and what works for patients,” senior study author Gregory Marcus, the director of clinical research for UCSF’s cardiology department, told Gizmodo after the initial study.
Advertisement

So far, it seems like the answer may be that the Apple Watch really might be useful.
But in addition to more studies to confirm diagnostic accuracy, researchers will also have to study whether tracking health metrics like heart conditions will actually wind up leading to a positive change in consumer health. While doctors and some insurers have promoted the Apple Watch as a tool for encouraging healthy behavior, it’s not clear that it actually is.  One study last year found that people who wore trackers for 18 months while trying to lose weight actually lost less weight than people who didn’t were untracked.


Back in July, satellite images showed an iceberg bigger than the state of Delaware calving and drifting away from Antarctica’s Larsen C ice shelf. Well, it’s summertime now in Antarctica, which means scientists are finally able to view this behemoth from up close—and the pictures are just as spectacular as we imagined.
Known as iceberg A-68, the gigantic slab of ice weighs about a trillion tons and features a surface area of 2,240 square miles (5,800 square kilometers). The berg is slowly drifting away from the Larsen C ice shelf, possibly heading towards the South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands. As it floats away from the Antarctic Peninsula, A-68 is splintering and forming more icebergs in the process.
Advertisement

This past Sunday November 12th, members of Operation Icebridge—a NASA-led initiative to produce detailed 3D maps of Antarctic and Arctic polar ice—flew a P-3 aircraft armed with a sophisticated array of measuring instruments to take a closer look.
“Perhaps you know the feeling: that moment when you see with your eyes something you have previously only seen in pictures,” wrote science writer Kathryn Hansen, who participated in the trip, in an article penned for NASA’s Earth Observatory. “Before today, I knew the Larsen C ice shelf only from the satellite images we have published since August 2016.”
Hansen said she wasn’t prepared for the enormity of the iceberg, as most bergs she’s seen were relatively small and blocky.
“A-68 is so expansive it appears if it were still part of the ice shelf,” she said. “But if you look far into the distance you can see a thin line of water between the iceberg and where the new front of the shelf begins. A small part of the flight today took us down the front of iceberg A-68, its towering edge reflecting in the dark Weddell Sea.”
In addition to taking photos, the Operational Icebridge scientists sought to measure the depth of water below iceberg, which they did using radar and a gravimeter.
Scientists now have the clearest picture yet of A-68, which will help them track and study its progress moving forward.
[NASA Earth Observatory]


It can’t be stressed enough how crazy gravitational waves are. These supremely violent events take place many light years in the distance, and because they literally alter the shape of space and time, the ripples they produce can be detected on Earth. But gravitational wave astronomy is only in its infancy, and there’s even stranger things yet to be observed.
To date, researchers have only spotted gravitational waves from colliding black holes and colliding stars—that’s what their detectors are set up to do. But new research demonstrates that within the next decade scientists may be able to spot a whole new kind of gravitational wave with a different tool called a pulsar timing array, or PTA. These waves would stem from pairs of black holes millions, even billions times the mass of our Sun orbiting one another like giants dancing and stomping in the distance.
Advertisement

All of the headline-making gravitational wave events you’ve heard about were discovered by LIGO and Virgo, several-mile-long underground tunnels where laser light is split and then brought back together. A gravitational wave makes one of the split beams wobble and interfere with the other beam, making a wave shape visible in a detector. But these detectors can only spot wobbles occurring at least 10 times per second—they’re immune to less frequent ones that might be created by things such as merging galaxies with a pair of orbiting supermassive black holes at their center.
The key to discovering these particular black holes would be a different kind of experiment called pulsar timing arrays (PTAs). These experiments measure the timing of pulsars, light sources that send beams to earth at regular intervals like lighthouses, explains Chiara Mingarelli, astrophysicist from the Flatiron Institute, in a blog post for Scientific American:
PTAs take advantage of the regular arrival times of radio pulses from millisecond pulsars to search for gravitational waves.  When two supermassive black holes coalesce into one, the mergers bathe the universe in low-frequency waves, stretching and squashing the fabric of spacetime. The pulsars and the Earth behave like buoys on the surface of a choppy spacetime sea, bobbing up and down as the waves pass by. This causes changes in the timing of pulsar pulses that can be detected in carefully designed experiments here on Earth.
But Mingarelli’s model, published yesterday in Nature Astronomy, used real data to predict how many and even which galaxies would radiate these waves. “Before, everyone used simulations that couldn’t tell you which galaxies to look at specifically,” she told Gizmodo. “But using my techniques with theoretical galaxy merger rate, we can point to galaxies in the sky and say ‘that one.’” In this case, the most likely merger is M104, the Sombrero Galaxy. That’s because if it had these binaries, they’d orbit each other for a longer period of time and would therefore be more likely to spot.
Ultimately, the discovery of such a gravitational wave will depend on how well the researchers can isolate ambient noise; finding the signal in the noise is something the prediction is reliant upon. Mingarelli also wants to tweak the model to improve how the laws of the Universe affect these galaxy merger rates, since ultimately discovering these waves relies on finding the right galaxy.
With this ten year prediction, it’s now just a game of wait-and-see.
[Nature Astronomy]


Using iron powder to teach kids about the magic of magnets has been a staple of grade school science for decades. The tiny iron particles are seemingly brought to life in the presence of a powerful magnet; an effect that filmmaker Roman De Giuli manages to turn into a moving masterpiece with closeup photography and moody lighting.
Everything you see in De Giuli’s short film, Matereality, was shot using practical effects. In addition to iron powder and magnets, he also introduced reflective pigments and glitter to add another level of eye candy to the complex, ever-evolving patterns the iron powder creates.
[Terracollage]



If you were to ask all of your friends what an ideal society looks like, I’m sure you’d receive vastly different answers. Maybe someone will suggest a society without war where everyone works together to solve problems. Your friend who just finished an Ayn Rand book will say something stupid. And maybe your vegan friend will pipe up and suggest a society without animal agriculture.
I, for one, think such an idea is impossible, but I’m also a morose pessimist who moved to Wisconsin by choice and whose favorite event was an annual pig roast on a dairy farm. But a pair of scientists, one from Virginia Tech and another from the USDA, have made some new calculations based on the wonder: what if the United States really did ditch animals for good? What would a society without animal agriculture look like? Their answer is complicated.
Advertisement

“This assessment suggests that removing animals from US agriculture would reduce agricultural [greenhouse gas] emissions,” write the authors in the study published yesterday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. “but would also create a food supply incapable of supporting the US population’s nutritional requirements.”
Why write such a report? As of today, our society relies on both plants and animals. The Earth’s climate is changing, thanks in part to the gigatons of greenhouse gases we spew into the atmosphere annually. Around a quarter of the United States’ emissions come from agriculture, much of it from animal agriculture. Also, the human population is increasing, we’ll have to feed all of those new people, and agriculture in the US has lots of problems.
The researchers looked at hypothetical changes to the entire livestock process, including people and industry, fuel, and raising crops for animals, for example. They found a 23 percent increase in the amount of food available—mainly in grains—and a 28 percent decrease in agricultural greenhouse gas emissions. However, they only found a 2.6 percent decrease in overall greenhouse gas emissions. They also found deficiencies in the American diet’s essential nutrients.
Many will probably remind me that it is possible to live healthily on a vegan diet, though doing so might require supplements and extra work, including producing more of certain calcium and Vitamin B12-containing foods. Others might remind me that meat replacements like plant-based burgers and lab grown meat should be taken seriously.
But this is just a model, of course, meaning it has limitations and shouldn’t be taken as truth. Some researchers took issue with its conclusions, and thought that restructuring land use could account for the lost nutrients, or that it underestimated the cuts in greenhouse gases that might come from importing meat, according to an article published in Science.
But the truth of the matter is, if this study is to be taken at its word, it still shows that it won’t be easy to just flip the switch and turn everyone vegan. Also, we live in the United States and you should probably call up your relatives, including the ~46 percent of them that voted for the current President, and ask them what they think about the country going vegan.
[PNAS via Science]


There’ve been some incredible images of the James Webb Space Telescope, the next generation telescope and successor to the Hubble. But we’re not really here to look at images of telescopes. We’re here to learn some dope space stuff.
The JWST’s operators at the Space Telescope Science Institute have selected 13 missions as part of their Director’s Discretionary Early Release Science Program, according to a press release. The missions represent over 250 scientists from 18 groups. Perhaps most importantly, the data from these missions will be public.
Advertisement

“There’s no proprietary period,” Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) Director Ken Sembach told Gizmodo. “Scientists anywhere can pull down the data at the same time as the people who proposed the observations.”
The accepted proposal run the gamut of interesting space science. One hopes to better directly image exoplanets. Another will observe the evolution of the chemistry of ice in star-forming systems. Another will map the surface and atmospheres of Jupiter’s moons Ganymede and Io. Yet another will peer deep into a Seyfert galaxy, the kind with a bright core.
But these proposals weren’t selected for the pretty pictures. Instead, they will help scientists better operate the telescope in the future.
“There were several criteria that these projects were judged on,” said Sembach. “One was compelling science, the other was to demonstrate the capabilities of the observatory.” In other words, these projects could potentially offer parameters, documentation, and observations that will help scientists use JWST effectively in the future.
NASA recently delayed the JWST’s launch, claiming that things were taking longer than previously thought. STSci will issue a call for proposals for its first cycle soon, on top of guaranteed proposals. You can also expect head-turning images, but this time around, the scientists want to show the world what the telescope can really do.
“These won’t be the deepest or the most ambitious or the most revolutionary,” said Sembach, “But they will be a very solid foundation on which all of those ambitious revolutionary dramatic observations later will be based.”
[STSci]


When distant black holes (or neutron stars) collide, there’s a lot scientists can tell from the way they send gravitational waves rippling through space. That includes their masses, their distance, or how their spins line up with one another. But one question they’re still trying to figure out is, well, where are they?
There’s more to this story than mere appearances. Decoding the neighborhood around these cataclysmic collisions could shed light on the origin stories of these black holes, and how they came to collide in the first place. Physicists think they’ve got new a way to help tell the full story of these colliding behemoths: by the way they spin into one another.
Advertisement

“We want to think about what’s nearby that can induce ellipticity,” Lisa Randall, Harvard theoretical physicist, told Gizmodo. “There’s this whole category of physics about how the environment can affect the merger.”
When a pair of black holes many times the mass of our sun come rip-roaring towards each other and collide, they send spacetime ripples throughout the universe in the form of gravitational waves. Scientists measure these waves with large experiments, like the two LIGO detectors that announced their gravitational wave discovery back in 2016. The signal looks like a wave quickly increasing in frequency before disappearing, like the sound of a water droplet falling from a faucet.
These signals correspond to a pair of black holes (or neutron stars) spiraling inwards until they collide. But if a third supermassive black hole was nearby, one millions or even billions of times the mass of the Sun, perhaps it would alter the motion and therefore be detectable in the signal, according to Randall’s research published recently on the arXiv preprint server. The presence of some other mass could cause their collision course to take on a more elliptical shape.
Scientists are still trying to understand the mathematics behind measuring this ellipticity. But it’s not easy. “This [effect] is possibly the hardest to account for,” Imre Bartos, assistant professor at the University of Florida explained to Gizmodo, “for computational reasons.”
If scientists could take ellipticity into account, perhaps they could tell how these black holes formed, or even detect the presence of more exotic things, like dark matter. “There’s a lot of different directions to go in and I can’t say which will lead to the most exciting results,” said Randall. “But now that we can actually see colliding black holes, it makes the question, ‘what can we learn from them,’ a lot more interesting.”
[arXiv]
Correction: This article incorrectly mentioned another work that cites this result. That reference has been reviewed.


Despite sounding like an off-brand breakfast cereal, the genetic engineering technique CRISPR has infiltrated the vocabulary of the general public, stoking fierce ethics debates, imaginative renderings of the future and even inspiring a novel and a J.Lo-backed TV series. That’s because CRISPR truly is amazing, allowing human beings to alter genetic code with a level of precision never before achieved. And now there’s actual video footage documenting just how amazing CRISPR really is.

Scientists have already accomplished the incredible with CRISPR, from making allergy-free gluten to editing a human embryo. But, as often is the case in science, the nitty gritty details of exactly how CRISPR works has been a bit of a mystery. Now, a new paper published in Nature Communications Friday provides real-time, molecule-scale footage of CRISPR cleaving a strand of DNA in two.
Advertisement

The video is grainy and dark, but it provides an astonishing first look at CRISPR in action. A team from Kanazawa University and University of Tokyo in Japan used a technique called high-speed atomic-force microscopy to capture the shape of Cas9, the enzyme that actually does the cutting. A tiny needle moves back and forth, rendering details about the enzyme’s shape, moving so quickly that it produces a moving image.
The video took the science world by storm over the weekend, racking up more than 1,500 retweets and thousands of likes. CRISPR is definitely a pop star of the science world—and we’ve only begun to scratch the surface of its potential.


If you’re a fan of a simple oil and vinegar dressing for your salad, your days of having to shake the bottle for a few seconds to mix both ingredients could soon be over. Researchers at MIT have found a way to combine water and oil-based substances so that they stay mixed for months on end.
There are several reasons why oil and water (and water-based solutions like vinegar) resist mixing: oil is less dense than water creating a propensity for it to float on top of H2O, water molecules naturally knit tightly to each other using strong hydrogen bonds, and the fact that oil tends to be hydrophobic, repelling water instead of attracting it. As a result, if you want the two to mix for more than just a few minutes, you’ll need to create an emulsion by vigorously shaking or vibrating the mixture to create tiny droplets that take much longer to coalesce into larger drops and eventually completely separate.
Advertisement

Creating an emulsion is an energy-intensive process, and expensive on an industrial scale. But the new approach developed at MIT is much cheaper and easier to implement. Instead of shaking or blasting a mixture with sound waves, they use the same science that makes your bathroom mirror fog up while you’re taking a hot shower: condensation.

Oil is first mixed with a surfactant, which is a soap-like substance that will easily bind to both oil and water molecules. The oil is placed in a chamber full of humid air and then cooled, which causes the water droplets in the air to condense and form uniform, microscopic droplets that evenly spread through the oil. By tweaking the oil and surfactant mixture just right, the water droplets can be reduced to nanoscale sizes that aren’t as easily affected by gravity, producing emulsions that remain stable for months—not minutes.
Aside from revolutionizing the salad industry, the research could help extend the expiration date of expensive pharmaceuticals that often contain unstable emulsion mixtures resulting in a unreasonably short shelf life.
[MIT]


NASA engineers are currently hard at work developing Space Launch System 1—what will be the biggest, most powerful rocket ever built. The inaugural launch of this behemoth won’t happen any earlier than 2019, but NASA has released a spectacular simulation of the launch to whet our appetites.
If we’re ever going to send humans and heavy equipment to Mars or further out into the Solar System, we’re going to need something like SLS-1 EM-1.

At liftoff the Block 1 configuration provides for 8.8 million pounds of thrust, which is more than 31 times the total thrust of a 747 jet. With that power, this rocket will be able to deliver 154,000 tons to orbit, or about 77 one-ton pickup trucks’ worth of cargo. The system can be easily modified to accommodate cargo-only missions, or crewed journeys into space.
Advertisement

For safety reasons, NASA won’t be sending astronauts into space during the inaugural launch, which may not happen until 2020. Once the rocket is deemed ship-shape, its Orion spacecraft will send four occupants on a roundtrip to the Moon and back. This will serve as an important trial run for the launch we’re all really waiting for—our first crewed journey to Mars.
[NASA]


If you’re into physics making your brain leak out of your ears, you should familiarize yourself with Bose-Einstein condensates. These strange arrangements of atoms can be all the states of matter at once, can look like they have negative mass, and essentially bring the weirdness of quantum mechanics to larger scales.
That means physicists sometimes observe strange new effects in these wacky materials. Most recently, one team observed that, under the right conditions, they could cause a Bose-Einstein Condensate to emit a burst of jets like microscopic fireworks. Check it out:
But what’s going on here? First, the researchers trap and cool cesium atoms in a disk less than ten micrometers in radius  with a pair of lasers—this is the Bose-Einstein condensate. Then they put the whole thing in an oscillating magnetic field. After a few milliseconds, bursts of atoms fly out of the system in jets that resemble fireworks. The modulation is what causes the outburst instead of, say, a halo of matter, explained UChicago physicist and author Cheng Chin. They published the work yesterday in Nature.
Advertisement

The Bose-Einstein condensate’s secret is that certain particles called bosons can, unlike electrons, occupy the same lowest-energy states. From this falls the observation that large collections of atoms begin to show and amplify effects usually only observed in single particles. But adding the modulating field means the particles are no longer only in the ground state, explained Chin.
These bosons then prefer to bunch together when they’re forced out of the disk. But what does that mean? “We try to argue...that the pattern we see is the amplification of quantum fluctuations,” said Chin. Perhaps the experiment is magnifying the quantum world, and the structure of the fireworks can shed light on what’s truly going on in a vacuum.
...Perhaps. Welcome to the quantum universe.
[Nature via UChicago]


Killer mosquitoes are coming—mosquitoes that help kill other mosquitoes, that is.
The Environmental Protection Agency has approved lab-reared mosquitoes infected with the bacterium Wolbachia pipientis to be released into the wilds of 20 states and Washington, DC. The mosquitoes are engineered by the company MosquitoMate so that they deliver the bacterium to wild mosquitoes when released, killing off insects that could transmit viruses such as dengue, yellow fever and Zika.
Advertisement

The technique is a riff on an approach used to manage agricultural pests for more than half a century known as “sterile insect technique.” Using radiation to randomly cause an insect’s genes to mutate, scientists made problematic species like the screwworm unable to produce viable offspring. By 1982, screwworm was completely eradicated from the US.
Mosquitoes, though, are too fragile  to blast with rays of radiation and still be capable of mating in the wild, forcing scientists to turn to other techniques such as genetic engineering or, in this case, the Wolbachia bacterium. The company will rear the infected mosquitoes in its Kentucky lab, sorting non-biting males from females. Then those males will be released at treatment sites to mate with wild females, producing eggs that don’t hatch because the virus prevents paternal chromosomes from developing properly. The idea is that over time, as more male mosquitoes are released to mate with wild females, the population dwindles—without having to resort to pesticides that are not only harmful to people and the environment, but rapidly dwindling in efficacy.
The news was reported first on Tuesday in Nature, and confirmed to Gizmodo by MosquitoMate and the EPA. The EPA said that on November 3 the agency officially registered MosquitoMate’s Asian Tiger mosquito as a new biopesticide, with a five-year license to sell in 20 different states.
MosquitoMate CEO Stephen Dobson told Gizmodo that the company will begin releasing the mosquitoes in the Lexington area next summer, and gradually expand to other nearby metropolitan areas like Nashville and Louisville. The company will contract with local government bodies, as well as sell the mosquitoes direct to home owners via a summer-long subscription.
MosquitoMate is not the only entity to explore the use of lab-grown mosquitoes to kill off pests, but its approach has been far less controversial than some others because it is perceived as a “natural” alternative to pesticides. The British biotech company Oxitec has for years sought approval to release genetically engineered sterile insects in the US, but so far has yet to even gain approval for  open-air tests. In the Florida Keys, for example, the local community railed against Oxitec’s mosquitoes, forcing the company to seek a new location for its trials after a local vote. Meanwhile, MosquitoMate’s trials in the Keys and Fresno, CA attracted little attention.
Dobson told Gizmodo that it is also pursuing the release of the Asian Tiger mosquito nationwide, as well as trials of another species of mosquito, the Aedes aegypti—one of the deadliest species of mosquitoes.


A Seattle-based startup has developed an innovative “skin closure device” that exhibits the anchoring strength of sutures and staples, but is nearly as easy to apply as a bandage. Called microMend, the device is performing well in clinical studies, and it may only be a matter of time before one gets stuck on you.
The device, developed by KitoTech Medical, consists of a thin adhesive strip and two arrays of tiny “microstaples” on either side. To apply it, a nurse or doctor places it across a wound one side at a time, allowing the microstaples to insert into the skin and align on either side of the gash. It’s apparently painless, or at least as painless as something can be when you’re dealing with an injury.
Because the microstaples are packed closely together (5-10 mm apart) there’s virtually no gap in the wound, which lessens the chance of infections, inflammation, and scarring. No needles are required, which, in addition to reducing transmissible infections, is good for those who are squeamish about such things (raises hand). Tension is balanced across the entire wound on account of the way microMend is applied, a procedure similar to applying a bandage. The device covers the entire wound, so an additional layer of adhesive strips isn’t required as frequently as with sutures or staples. In some cases, a doctor can recommend that a patient remove the device by themselves at home.
Advertisement

The device is the brainchild of KitoTech Medical CEO Dr. Ron Berenson, a med-tech entrepreneur who has launched several other startups, including Aequus Biopharma and HemaQuest Pharmaceuticals. As reported by Cici Zhou in Medgadget, KitoTech has finalized the design of the device, rounded up manufacturing partners, and completed a series of clinical trials.
In studies done on pigs, an animal with very human-like skin, microMend worked just as effectively as sutures in closing wounds, while demonstrating “outstanding cosmetic results” when used to close 4.7 inch (12 cm) surgical incisions. During clinical trials with human subjects, microMend was three times faster to apply than sutures, and both healthcare providers and patients preferred the device to sutures and staples in 90 percent of cases. Patients said it was more comfortable to wear and have removed than sutures, and that it did a better job to facilitate healing.
The device is primarily meant for dermatological and plastic surgeries, but it could also be used where speed and cosmetic results are required, such as emergency settings, or vascular, spinal, and laparoscopic surgeries. It could also work well among the elder set, where skin is sometimes too fragile to suture. The device is not recommended for closure of jagged wounds, infected sites, moist bodily areas (such as armpits or groin), and hairy skin, among others.
Clinical studies are still ongoing, but microMend was recently showcased at the Annual Meeting of the American Society for Dermatological Surgery where it was met with positive reviews. The device won’t completely replace the need for staples and sutures, but it could dramatically reduce our reliance on these old-timey medical technologies.
[MicroMend via MedGadget]


Lost for hundreds of years, a recently recovered map of Australia dating back to the 17th century has finally been restored and put on display at a museum in Canberra. The document chronicles the mapping efforts of explorers a full 100 years before Captain James Cook set sail for the Pacific.
It’s called Archipelagus Orientalis (Eastern Archipelago), and it was created by master cartographer Joan Blaeu in 1663. The document, known as the Blaeu map, was re-discovered in 2010 in a Swedish warehouse where the document had been languishing for hundreds of years. Yesterday, after four years of meticulous preservation to stabilize the fragile document, the map returned to its new home at the National Library of Australia in Canberra.
The map is significant because it’s the first to show (most) of the Australian coastline in detail, and because it was created more than a hundred years before British explorer Captain James Cook made his famous voyages through the region in the 1770s. The map is also notable in that it includes the first sightings of Tasmania by Abel Tasman’s crew aboard the Zeehaen in 1642, while also documenting the Dutch discovery of Australia. This map of “New Holland,” as it was called back then, measures 46 inches by 60 inches (1185 mm x 1520 mm), and it was used a template for all of Australia until the times of Cook’s voyages.
Advertisement

Martin Woods, a curator of maps at the National museum, says the map was drawn using thousands of measurements made during about a dozen Dutch voyages, mostly by the Dutch East India company, over the course of three decades. Speaking to The Canberra Times, Woods said:
It’s like a giant news map, if you like. There’s so much information in the text around the map, from trading opportunities to details of the voyages, even the illustrations of the ships in battle, all paint a picture of what was happening. [...]
Although in this map Australia is the centre of attention, to Blaeu and his countrymen it was a puzzle. They cruised the coast, they cruised the north, the south, the west, looking for trading opportunities, occasionally landing, not finding people with goods they recognized they could trade with, sailing off again. Some years later curiosity would get the better of them and another voyage would occur and this pattern continued until they decided to concentrate their efforts in the Spice Islands [in Indonesia] and they left this enigma of Australia alone.
Blaeu’s Map will be on display as part of the museum’s Mapping Our World exhibition in the Library’s Treasures Gallery until next year.
[National Library of Australia, Canberra Times]


If you were to fly over Enceladus’ southernmost regions, you’d witness a remarkable sight. With surprising frequency, this ice-covered moon spurts a plume of water into space—a telltale sign that a global ocean lies underneath. Scientists have struggled to explain how such a tiny moon could sustain enough energy to maintain a liquid ocean, but new research shows that a porous core could do the trick, and that Enceladus has been wet for billions of years—a potential sign of habitability.
New research published in Nature Astronomy is the first to show how Saturn’s moon Enceladus is able to produce sustained hydrothermal activity along its rocky core and maintain a warm subterranean global ocean. Remarkably, the 3D models used for the study indicate that this process, which requires a wet, porous core, has been ongoing for potentially billions of years, an observation that bodes well for astrobiologists in search of microbial alien life.
Advertisement

Enceladus measures about 310 miles (500 km) across and it’s completely covered in an icy shell. At its thickest, this ice runs about 12 to 15 miles (20-25 km) deep, but it thins to just a few miles over the southern polar region. It’s in these southern areas where Enceladus’ geysers can be found, spewing jets of water vapor and icy grains (some containing simple organics) through cracks in the ice.
This moon is literally blowing its ocean into space, and thanks to the Cassini probe, we know this vapor includes salt and silica dust. But for these ingredients to exist, the temperature at the bottom of the ocean must be exceptionally hot. Because of what Cassini uncovered, we know there are some serious chemical reactions happening along the boundary that separates the moon’s liquid ocean from its warm, rocky core.
“In order to explain these observations, an abnormally high heat power (>20 billion watts) is required, as well as a mechanism to focus endogenic activity [i.e. processes within the core] at the south pole,” write the authors in the new study.
Exactly where Enceladus gets all this crazy amount of energy isn’t immediately obvious. The heat required is about 100 times more than what would be expected through the natural decay of radioactive elements within the core’s rocks. More plausibly, a major part of the process has to do with the moon’s host: Saturn. Enceladus spins around its gas giant along an elliptical orbit, where the constant gravitational pushing and pulling creates a tidal effect. At the core, this tidal effect produces friction, and by consequence warmth. Yet this is still not enough energy to counterbalance the heat bleeding off the ocean. By all accounts, this moon should’ve frozen over after about 30 million years, according to scientists.
But it hasn’t, and because Enceladus is still extremely wet and active, something else must be going on. To find out, a team from the US and Europe, led by Gaël Choblet from the University of Nantes in France, ran a series of 3D simulations to see what’s going on inside this moon.
Advertisement

“Where Enceladus gets the sustained power to remain active has always been a bit of mystery, but we’ve now considered in greater detail how the structure and composition of the moon’s rocky core could play a key role in generating the necessary energy,” says Choblet in a statement.
According to the models, the only way for Enceladus to maintain a liquid ocean is by having a core made up of unconsolidated, easily deformable, porous rock. With a highly permeable rocky core featuring upwards of 20 to 30 percent empty space, cool liquid water can rush in and get warmed by the tidal friction (temperatures at the core can reach as much as 363 Kelvin or 90 degrees Celsius). When the water gets hotter than its surroundings, it rises and gets flushed out of the core via narrow cracks, similar to hydrothermal vents at the bottom of Earth’s oceans. This process repeats itself creating a hydraulic cycle of sorts; every 25 to 250 million years or so, the entire volume of Enceladus’ ocean goes through the moon’s core. Incredibly, this activity can be maintained for billions of years, according to the models.
Advertisement

This study, says NASA Astrobiology Institute scientist Christopher Glein, provides a solution to an important problem: how to make hydrothermal systems inside a small icy moon.
“We are closer than before at bridging observations and theory, and chemistry and physics to arrive at a more complete understanding of how Enceladus works,” explained Glein, who wasn’t involved in the new study, in an email to Gizmodo. “I am very excited by the potential for hydrothermal systems on a world beyond Earth to provide energy and nutrients that could support a form of life. This study advances the case that Enceladus is one of the hottest destinations for this century of space exploration.”
Indeed, in addition to having warm water, organic molecules, and other “building blocks” of life, it’s had an ocean for potentially billions of years—enough time (at least in theory) for simple microbial life to emerge. But we’ll only know by exploring this moon even further.
Advertisement

“These scientists have done great work,” Jonathan Lunine, an astronomer at the Cornell Center for Astrophysics and Planetary Science (also not involved in the new study) told Gizmodo. “Tidal heating in a heavily fractured wet core makes sense and enhances ocean heating.”
Likewise, Hunter Waite, the program director for NASA’s Space Science and Engineering Division, says the research makes sense, pointing to a study he co-authored earlier this year. “Dissipation of tidal heating within the rock is an important factor in hydrothermal activity and hydrogen production as discussed in our Science paper on molecular hydrogen production,” he told Gizmodo.
The new study, while it explains Enceladus’ liquid global ocean, internal heating, thinner ice at the south pole, and hydrothermal activity, doesn’t explain why the northern polar region features ancient ice covered in craters. The models predict thinning at both poles, so something else is going on that still needs to be studied.
[Nature Astronomy]


In the past, the US Food and Drug Administration has closely scrutinized consumer DNA tests that claim to inform customers whether or not they’re are at risk for a certain health condition, and with good reason: An incorrect interpretation could lead to serious health consequences and stress.
But a statement on Monday from FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb indicates that the agency will soon be loosening regulations for genetic health risk tests.
Advertisement

“Consumers are increasingly embracing genetic health risk (GHR) testing to better understand their individual risk for developing diseases,” Gottlieb said. “This engagement prompts some people to make more informed lifestyle choices.”
The newly proposed regulations will allow genetic health tests to make it to market without prior review. Companies seeking to sell such tests would have to come to the FDA for a one-time review. But after getting that initial FDA stamp of approval, any subsequent genetic health test the company develops will not face further regulatory hurdles.
“Our goal is to streamline the regulatory pathway to get innovative medical products to people more efficiently, while providing the FDA assurances that consumers seek,” said Gottlieb.
The proposed regulations, if approved, would be an expansion of the deal the agency offered genetic testing giant 23andMe earlier this year. Originally, 23andMe offered assessments for more than 250 diseases and conditions, but in 2013 the FDA cracked down and ordered the company to cease providing analyses of people’s risk factors for disease until the tests’ accuracy could be validated. In April, the FDA gave the company the green light to market tests for 10 diseases or conditions directly to consumers and announced that future 23andMe tests would be exempt from premarket review by the agency. At the time, the move was expected to lead to less regulation for genetic health risk tests across the board.
Gottlieb said that consumer genetic tests don’t “fit squarely” into the agency’s “traditional risk-based approach to device regulation.”
“While these tests can offer significant amounts of personal risk information, they’re not without their own risks,” he said, “especially if they provide consumers with incorrect or misleading information that may be used to make health choices without considering the advice of a medical professional.”
Advertisement

He noted that the goals of the new rules are similar to that of the “FDA Pre-Cert” program pilot that FDA unveiled in September to regulate digital health products. Instead of vetting each individual product before it hits the marketplace, the agency wants to assess the validity of a company’s methodologies and practices.
The FDA commissioner said recently that he plans to “deregulate by regulating.” While Gottlieb has signaled a path towards less regulation of genetic health tests, ultimately Monday’s news may be a hint that the agency plans to place more scrutiny on a consumer genetic testing market in which experts have raised significant concerns about accuracy, reliability and privacy.


Humans like naming things. We named a boat Boaty McBoatface. We named a bunch of animals after dicks. But some things already have perfectly good names. Like a distant rock NASA is tasking us with nicknaming.
New Horizons, the mission that showed us Pluto’s icy heart, is whizzing into the outer reaches of the Solar System. On New Year’s Day 2019, it will approach a small body (or pair of bodies). NASA needs help nicknaming this rock (or these rocks). But here’s the rub: It’s already called (486958) MU69... MU69 for short.
Advertisement

You don’t need me to tell you why MU69 is a nice name, but I will anyway. 69 is the sex number. It is one of the Good Numbers, along with 420, 666 and 311. We revere 69. We say “nice” afterwards like we say “bless you” after a sneeze.
But Mark Showalter and the New Horizons Science Team have the gall to request a nickname for something already so well-named—and to call MU69 “unexciting.” They’ve presented a list of markedly un-sexy names like “Año Nuevo,” “Camalor,” “Mjölnir,” and “Peanut.” And, if MU69 really is a binary system, the pair of rocks each 20 kilometers in diameter might really be 69-ing.
So, join me in giving these distant worlds the nice names they deserve. You can nominate here. And let’s name them something special. Here are some ideas:
“The 69ers”
“The Sex Rocks”
“6" and “9"
Or maybe we just nickname them what we’ve always nicknamed things numbered 69:
“Nice.”
[via New Horizons]


When a consumer genetic testing company planned to give away free DNA tests to Baltimore Ravens fans in September, the federal government intervened and prompted a last-minute cancellation. Now, a federal agency has found that the startup, Orig3n, does not have the necessary legal certification to sell genetic tests related to health.
Orig3n had planned to offer cheek swabs and genetic analysis testing for four different genes to game attendees, including  one related to the body’s ability to regulate vitamin D flagged as  health-related by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. In a letter dated Oct. 30 sent to Orig3n, CMS identified 18 heath-related genes in Orig3n’s tests that the company will either have to stop including in its testing products or seek to obtain  a certificate saying that it meets what’s known as the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988. A CLIA certificate is something akin to an FDA approval alternative, validating not the results of a test but that the lab that produced them operated according to certain quality standards.
Advertisement

Orig3n sells tests that claim to assess traits related to fitness, nutrition, and beauty for as much as $149. In a response to CMS, the company argued that it was exempt from certification because it does not claim to provide health information. CMS found otherwise, responding that its tests indeed “provide genetic testing that provides information for the assessment of health.” The genes the agency cited include those related to cholesterol, bone strength, sugar sensitivity, and vitamin regulation.
“To apply for CLIA certification, Orig3n must contact both the Massachusetts and California State Agencies immediately for guidance,” the letter said, instructing Orig3n to seek certification in the two states where the company operates labs.
Orig3n told Gizmodo that it has already removed the 18 genes in question from its products, and will continue to sell them without those select genes. The company said that it has also replaced one of the genes in its Explorer DNA product that it had planned to give away at the Ravens game.
“Once we receive CLIA certification, we will resume offering those 18 genes,” company COO Kate Blanchard said in an emailed statement. “We have been pursuing CLIA certification for some time, a process that predates our recent communications with CMS.”
She went on to contradict the company’s assertion that its products are not intended to be used as an assessment of health.
“Orig3n is focused on advancing the future of health because we don’t think the current trial-and-error approach to healthcare is enough. We believe everyone should have access to personalized care,” she wrote.
Advertisement

And in the aftermath of the Ravens fiasco, Gizmodo has learned that Orig3n continued to give away its tests to sports fans despite the investigation into whether the company needed to seek additional certification.
After reading Gizmodo’s initial story, a Celtics fan contacted Gizmodo to say that Orig3n had been at the basketball team’s October 18 home game, both collecting blood samples for research and offering free cheek swabs for its DNA Explorer kit. The fan did the test and shared his results with Gizmodo. It contained one of the 18 genes blacklisted by CMS. Orig3n said results related to that gene would no longer show up online for those that have already done the test.
Since CMS had not yet determined which genes fall under CLIA regulation (or if any of them did) it is not clear whether Orig3n was actually in violation of any rules or requests. But after the Ravens giveaway was cancelled pending investigation into the company’s tests, it seems at minimum very strange that it continued giving the tests away at other games.
Advertisement

In the end, this will all likely wind up written off as a relatively minor regulatory snafu. But the attention it has attracted—the Ravens story found its way into the Washington Post, ESPN and the Baltimore Sun, among others—seems indicative of a growing suspicion  of consumer DNA testing. Experts have already raised concerns about the dubious nature of genetics tests that claim to assess traits like athleticism. (Gizmodo tried out Orig3n’s tests, and found the results were basically worthless.) They have also cited concerns over the privacy policies that govern such tests. Orig3n’s current privacy policy, for example, says that once you have consented to use of your genetic information, you cannot revoke that consent ever, granting Orig3n the right to use your genetic information whenever and wherever it sees fit.
Typically, the FDA has shied away from exercising regulatory authority over tests that do not directly indicate risk of disease. CMS’ actions, though, may be an indication that other consumer testing companies may also face the wrath of regulatory scrutiny in the future.


Physicists often build experiments looking for a specific something. Maybe that something consists of dark matter, new kinds of particles, or new ways that particles might interact with one another. Other physicists are trying to use these experiments’ old data in new ways, to look for something other than that specific something.
Confused? Here’s an example: One researcher is hunting for a less popular idea to explain dark matter, the elusive source of most of the Universe’s gravity. He’s using data from an experiment designed to observe a less exotic thing. This is physics, so he hasn’t found anything yet. But that doesn’t stop the results from being important.
Advertisement

“We didn’t see [the new particles], but I wasn’t surprised,” Jonathan Davis from King’s College, London told Gizmodo. “This is more of a proof of concept showing that you can use new ideas to probe all sorts of energies.”
You might be familiar with an important cosmic conundrum. Regular matter only makes up four percent of the Universe’s energy, while some sort of strange, invisible “dark matter” makes up around 25 percent (a mysterious thing called dark energy makes up the rest). One especially promising candidate is “weakly interacting massive particles,” or WIMPs, that consist of a hypothetical particle that causes such a tiny jostle on atoms that scientists haven’t seen it yet. Davis is instead looking for a hypothetical particle stronger than the proposed WIMPs but still too weak for regular experiments to detect.
It’s a SIMP, for “strongly interacting massive particle.” The interaction between a SIMP and a nucleus might be as strong as the interactions between the particles within the nucleus.
WIMP-hunting experiments exist and are buried deep underground to filter out more strongly-interacting particles. But researchers haven’t found any WIMPs yet. The thick rock above these experiments would stop the SIMPs, though. So Davis asked the physicists at the CRESST collaboration in Germany if he could look at the data from their v-cleus experiment. This sapphire crystal-containing detector sits on the Earth’s surface and is cooled. In theory, the temperature of the detector should increase by a tiny amount should a particle pass by; SIMPs would leave a specific signature in the data.
Davis didn’t find anything with the preliminary, proof-of-concept run, according to the paper published recently in Physical Review Letters, but he was able to help physicists understand what a SIMP can’t look like. That’s of crucial importance to particle physics so other experimenters don’t have to look for the same kinds of particles.
The experiment didn’t rule out as many possible particles as some others have and overlapped with some existing experiments, pointed out one physicist, James Beacham from CERN and the Ohio State University in an email to Gizmodo. Still, “I love results like these, and they’re a large part of the bread-and-butter of theorists and phenomenologists, since we experimentalists rely upon them to scrutinize our results after they’re released to point out where new physics could still be hiding and how we could have missed it in our data.”
Advertisement

Another CERN physicist, Steven Lowette, was excited about the results, since he’s similarly hunting for SIMPs at the LHC, and other particles that might have slipped past other physicists. “The SIMP is one that would give a special signature the LHC was not built for.”
Davis’ is another interesting example of physicists using existing experiments in different ways than they were intended in order to find new particles or phenomena others might not be looking for. Beacham himself has tried to coordinate searches like these. Other physicists are trying to take advantage of vacant physical space near other experiments, like walls or steam tunnels near the high-energy particle collisions of the LHC. Here they might make far cheaper (sometimes plastic) additions, like MoEDAL and MilliQan to spot particles the original experiment wasn’t meant to find.
But Davis himself wants to see more directed searches for these SIMPs and other exotic particles.
Advertisement

“Hopefully it will encourage people to build experiments to look for other sorts of weird dark matter.”
[PRL]


We’re always open to original feature pitches from writers! Please see specific guidelines for Gizmodo and io9 below to get you started.
Our rates vary according to experience and the scale of the project. You can reach us at pitches@gizmodo.com or email me directly at marina@gizmodo.com.
Pitches related to technology and science are welcome, including but not limited to digging up space history, exploring internet subcultures, and calling bullshit on pseudoscience. We’re interested in gadgets, chemistry, consumer technology, animals, net neutrality, aliens, CRISPR, cloning, robotics, transportation, sexuality and tech, social media, addiction, psychology, the future, and more. There’s a lot of flexibility. Send us something exciting, urgent, or secret, and we’ll talk it out. Please make sure your pitch is original—either about something and someone not widely covered, or a completely new approach to the subject.
Advertisement

Reported features: We’re looking for focused, narrative-driven deep dives of all lengths, with human characters and a timely theme. It can be an investigation with a scoop, a newsy report, or an ambitious long-form exploration. It can be about an egregious vaporware trend, a controversial scientific movement, a critical internet drama, a pressing national health issue or a malicious tech phenomenon—as long as there are people. Interviews with involved parties and experts in the field are required, unless everyone involved is dead, in which case, ask a historian.
Experiential pieces: If you’re planning on attending an event, a convention, a conference, or a club meeting, or going anywhere where something  remarkable is happening, tell us about it. Use personal voice sparsely, unless you yourself had an extraordinary experience.
Profiles: If you have exclusive access to a rarely interviewed person of interest, or if you’ve found someone whose story needs to be told for the first time, this is a good fit. We need stories told with empathy and a critical eye, and involve experts and outside sources.
Consumer tech reviews: Do you have particular expertise or unique perspective on a gadget or another consumer technology? We want to hear about your ideas for reviews of gadgets beyond the iPhone—they can be useful, nostalgic, massive, repurposed, for science or for your cat.
Interviews: Thoughtful, engaging conversations with people who are currently publishing a topical book or invented something revolutionary, or people in the foreground of a developing news story are appreciated.
Recurring series: We’re currently developing several recurring features and series of related articles. You can pitch a post for the weekly Giz Asks series—important or unusual questions about science and technology answered by experts—or these researched lists of fabled tech fails. If you have an idea for your own recurring series or a column, let us know!
Please, don’t pitch: Short blog posts, news summaries, or fiction.
What to send: A paragraph or two that includes a summary of your story, who you’re planning to interview, and a quick note about why you think this story is right for Gizmodo. Please include a link to your portfolio or relevant clips.
Feature-length, researched articles on all things science fiction, fantasy, supernatural horror and their related fandoms—books, television, film, comics, internet communities, IRL gatherings, pop culture, and nerd culture. We welcome oral histories, relevant (science, technology, or entertainment) expert commentary on a show/movie/etc, interviews or profiles of people doing something extraordinary, devoted, cool or rare, explorations of a particular film/tv genre/trope, pieces solving a mystery or correcting a mistake, or a visit to a convention, club or event (not Comic-Con, we got that).
Advertisement

Please, don’t pitch: Reviews (unless you have an inside or expert perspective on the subject), news hits, lists, or fiction.
What to send: A paragraph or two that includes a summary of your story, who you’re planning to speak to or what research you’ll be doing for the story, and a quick note about why you think it’s right for io9. Please include a link to your portfolio or relevant clips.


Nobel Prize winner Frank Wilczek was optimistic back in 2012. After all, he’d just won a wager after scientists had just announced their Higgs boson discovery at the Large Hadron Collider particle physics experiment in Switzerland. He made another bet—but he’s doesn’t feel as confident today.
Wilczek made his new bet with Swedish physicist Tord Ekelöf. The terms were simple: If scientists discover evidence of a new kind of “superpartner” particle at the LHC by 2019, he’d win 100 chocolate Nobel Prizes. If not, he’d have to pay up.
Advertisement

“The LHC has already done a lot of the exploration that it will have done by the end of the terms of the bet,” Wilczek told Gizmodo over Skype. “The window of opportunity is closing pretty rapidly, I’m afraid.”

Supersymmetry, or SUSY, is the theory at the center of the bet. Essentially, some of particle physics’ woes and theories currently fixed with bandaids would make a whole lot more sense if we found an entirely new set of particles. These particles are also candidates for the elusive dark matter, the stuff that makes up most of the mass of the universe whose identity scientists are still unsure of.
Superpartners link the two larger groups of particles, bosons and fermions. SUSY says that every boson, like the force-carrying photons and gluons, would have a complimentary, heavier fermion. Every fermion, like quarks and electrons, would have a complimentary, heavier boson. They’d have silly names like squarks, photinos and Winos, the W-boson’s superpartner (not your barbecue-ruining uncle).
Despite a tantalizing but ultimately unfounded hint last year, LHC physicists have not found any superpartners. That disappointed some physicists recently interviewed by the New York Times, and the lost hope has been compounded by the continued lack of discovery in dark matter experiments. But it’s possible that the LHC just doesn’t have the energy to create these heavy superpartners.
Wilczek thought the physics community would need to be very lucky for the LHC to find evidence of supersymmetry by 2020. And, while physicists are always hunting for new ways to spot particles in their data, it will be several decades (maybe) before a new collider can hunt for higher energy particles. Things certainly aren’t hopeless, they just aren’t happening as fast as some might like. Ekelöf did not respond to a request for comment by publishing time, but I will update the post when I hear back.
Advertisement

As for the chocolate coins, “you get them at the Nobel museum,” said Wilczek. I asked him how they tasted. “Let’s put it this way—it’s not [the museum’s] selling point.”


As long as there has been a Joker—and we’re going on eighty years with this guy—there has been, as well, a Joker venom. It debuted alongside him, in 1940s Batman #1, and has been a part of his arsenal ever since.
Though its side effects have varied over the years, it has remained in each iteration a gruesomely unpleasant murder tool (or non-fatal face-mangling tool, as the case may be). The uncontrollable laughter’s not so bad, but the rapid shutdown of all heart and brain function is, I’d argue, extremely bad. Worst of all, though, is going to the grave with that iconically hideous grin.
Advertisement

But could such a toxin actually exist? No single one of its effects would seem impossible to reproduce in isolation, but a venom with all or most of them is a different question—one which forms the basis of this week’s Giz Asks, for which we reached out to a number of experts on the subject of venom.

Author of Venomous: How Earth’s Deadliest Creatures Mastered Biochemistry
I think the answer is, “it depends.”
It’s theoretically possible to induce random laughing fits, because that’s one of the symptoms of a disease called Kuru (kind of like Mad Cow). The disease is caused by a misfolded protein (a prion) that people can get into their bodies when they consume tissues laden with it... which, in the case of Kuru, was discovered because of cannibalistic traditions. The prion induces properly-folded versions of itself to misfold, and the accumulation of these “bad” proteins leads to brain lesions that can cause neurological symptoms like laughing fits.
So you could, theoretically, create a drinkable liquid or an injectable with such toxins that would induce laughing fits by causing brain damage. That brain damage is irreversible, so it is eventually lethal, too. Of course, the creation of these lesions takes time—years, even decades, in cases of Kuru—so it wouldn’t be the instantaneous onset of laughing fits. You might be able to engineer a prion or something else that works faster, though. Maybe. I don’t think anyone has tried, of course.
There are also illicit drugs which induce euphoria, which could potentially make someone laugh. Though it wouldn’t be forced, uncontrolled laughter like with brain damage so much as extreme joy and happiness, which might sometimes or frequently present as laughing fits. It would likely be difficult to create a drug that was targeted enough to cause such euphoria almost instantly without throwing off the rest of the body and brain (thereby killing the victim before they get to the happy, giggly place). So I’d say it’s possible, but probably really unlikely, that a “laughing drug” which reliably induced laughing followed by paralysis could be developed.
So, in short: It might be possible to create a chemical cocktail that makes people laugh uncontrollably and die, or one that makes them really happy and giggly and then die, or simply die really quickly from rigid paralysis. But the characteristic joker face in death is unlikely.
Oh, and none of this could be done in a closet by mixing cleaning chemicals. This would be serious designer lab stuff, probably cost a fortune to make, and likely require special storage and handling.
Assoc. Professor, Australian Institute for Tropical Health and Medicine
There is no venomous animal on the planet that could do [everything the Joker Venom does]. Having said that, there are components of different animal venoms in the animal kingdom that could, in combination. My understanding of the Joker is that he’s quite a smart chemist, so it would be possible to extract the components from those venoms and put them all together.
If you were looking for a component of a venom that caused cardiac standstill very quickly, you could get that from boxed jellyfish venom. A large quantity of of boxed jellyfish venom, in a human, would cause cardiac standstill within seconds. And if you diluted it, it could take minutes, depending on what you wanted to do with it.
If you were looking for a contraction of facial muscles, the Cone snail’s venom does exactly that.
Shutting the brain down is a little bit more difficult, because of the blood-brain barrier. To make that happen, you’d have to inject the venom directly into the central nervous system. But there is a wasp that does that. Basically, it injects the venom into the central nervous system, and it goes straight to the brain. So it has to go in through the spinal column, or the brain itself.
But, if you wanted to cause paralysis of the nervous system, that’s quite simple. There are a variety of animals that do that. One of those is the Blue-ringed octopus, whose entire venom is aimed at causing nervous pulse cessation. Someone that’s stung by one of those animals is completely alive, but they can’t move any of their voluntary muscles.
So: if you were to mix the toxin from a boxed jellyfish, the toxin from a Cone snail, and the toxin from a Blue-ringed octopus, then you would cause cardiac standstill almost instantaneously, you would cause all the muscles in the face and body to contract, and you would cause all neural cessation to stop throughout the body. Eminently doable!
If a toxin is injected—if you’re bitten, or stung—it’s a venom. If the toxin is ingested or inhaled, it’s a poison. Botulinum, which is a poison, causes contraction of muscles, and that could be [made into] a gas—but it wouldn’t cause cardiac standstill. I don’t know of any ingested poison or ingested toxin that would cause cardiac standstill in a short period of time. They just don’t work that way.
PhD Student in Biological Physics, Structure, and Design at the University of Washington
Unfortunately, people have already concocted compounds at least as horrible as the Joker’s venom. And yes, the Nazis are involved.
In the 1930s, a German chemist named Gerhard Schrader was trying to invent a new kind of pesticide. He claims he wanted to end world hunger. In the process, he stumbled on a class of phosphorous-containing compounds so nightmarishly lethal that the Nazis—who he worked for—refused to deploy it. Schrader is now known as the “father of nerve agents,” having boosted the toxicity and deliverability of his compounds.
He wasn’t the only one. Scientists in the UK and Russia eventually tried their hands at these dark arts, producing some of the most toxic chemicals the world has ever seen. Even brief exposure to strong nerve agents, by air or by skin, can lead to excruciating whole-body muscle contractions and death by asphyxiation within minutes. And despite being banned everywhere on Earth, we’ve seen the Syrian and North Korea governments use nerve agents during the Obama years.
Do you have a question for Giz Asks? Email us at tipbox@gizmodo.com.


The first mammals emerged during the reign of the dinosaurs, adopting a nocturnal lifestyle to stay safe. It was only until the dinosaurs were wiped off the face of the planet that certain mammals began to assert themselves during the daylight hours, according to new research.
New evidence published in Nature Ecology & Evolution suggests that the first diurnal (daytime) mammals emerged at some point between 52 to 33 million years ago. The timing would suggest that mammals had been “stuck” in a nocturnal mode of existence during the reign of the dinosaurs, which ended some 66 million years ago, and that the sudden disappearance of dinos allowed mammals to assert themselves during the day. The new study improves our understanding of mammalian evolution, but other researchers say more evidence is required for us to be absolutely certain about the timing of this important transition.
Advertisement

Mammalian fossils dating back to this period are hard to come by, but even if paleontologists and evolutionary biologists had tons of fossils, it would still be hard to discern an animal’s behavior from a pile of bones—including whether or not an animal was active during the day or night. That said, scientists are reasonably confident, based on the scant fossil evidence they do have, that the first mammals were nocturnal. They’re just not sure when our distant ancestors first started to emerge from the darkness.
To get a better sense of when this happened, a team of researchers from the University of College-London and Tel Aviv University constructed multiple family trees (phylogenies) based on the 2,415 species of mammals alive today.
“The study uses the evolutionary relationships to determine when mammals started moving around in the daylight,” P. David Polly, an Adjunct Professor of Biology and Anthropology at Indiana University who wasn’t involved in the new study, told Gizmodo. “These scientists wanted to know whether this group, which includes us, evolved eyesight that functions well in broad daylight before or after the dinosaurs became extinct. At the heart of the question is whether the dinosaurs held back the diversification of mammals.”
Both of the phylogenic timelines constructed by the researchers pointed to the same conclusion: mammals switched over into diurnal mode only after the dinosaurs were gone. The change was gradual, however, requiring millions of years of evolution; the “big switch” happened at some point between 52 to 33 million years ago (that’s a big window, even for evolutionary biology).
“We were very surprised to find such close correlation between the disappearance of dinosaurs and the beginning of daytime activity in mammals, but we found the same result unanimously using...alternative analyses,” explained lead author Roi Maor in a statement.
Of significance, ancestors of simian primates, such as gorillas, gibbons, and tamarins, were among the first to reject the night life. The new analysis is consistent with the fact that simian primates are the only mammals to have evolved adaptations to seeing well in daylight.
“It’s very difficult to relate behaviour changes in mammals that lived so long ago to ecological conditions at the time, so we can’t say that the dinosaurs dying out caused mammals to start being active in the daytime,” said study co-author Kate Jones. “However, we see a clear correlation in our findings.”
Advertisement

A lot of what the study shows was already known, said Polly, namely that the ancestors of mammals were nocturnal and that the first groups to utilize twilight or full daylight probably arose after the extinction of the dinosaurs. “The nice thing about the study is that the authors addressed the question quantitatively using data from many living mammals in combination with an evolutionary tree, or phylogeny.”
That said, Polly said the paper is based on a phylogeny that’s controversial in terms of which different subgroups of mammals arose.
“Both trees used by the authors put many of the splits in the Mesozoic period, before dinosaurs became extinct, whereas many scientists, especially paleontologists, would put those splits after the extinction based on the [fossil record],” Polly told Gizmodo. “For example, [the researchers] assume that the group of primates that includes monkeys, apes, and tarsiers originated before the extinction, which is highly unlikely given the quality of the fossil record of primates. If correct, the dates [given by the researchers] for the first daytime mammals would be pushed younger if their own analysis was adjusted.”
Advertisement

Despite this, Polly says their estimate of 52 to 33 million years is not unreasonable, and that “the diversification in sight specializations may have occurred over a more compressed interval of time than their analysis suggests.”
David Grossnickle, an evolutionary biologist from the University of Chicago, also not involved in the new study, agrees with Polly, saying a study based solely on phylogeny has its limitations.
“A majority of the mammalian species from the Mesozoic (or Age of Dinosaurs) went extinct and have no living descendants,” Grossnickle told Gizmodo. “Basically, much of the mammalian evolutionary tree is not represented in studies that only use data from modern species, such [as this study]. With this kind of data it’s difficult to infer behaviors of mammals tens of millions of years ago, because most species living tens of millions of years ago simply don’t have living representatives... I think their study is a strong contribution to our understanding of early mammal evolution, but I recommend caution when inferring traits of ancient mammals from modern mammals alone.”
Advertisement

Also, and as Grossnickle pointed out to Gizmodo, this new research contradicts another recent study arguing that diurnal behavior in mammals first arose about 10 million years after the extinction of dinosaurs. “[The] question of when diurnal behavior arose remains unsettled, although the recent research has made great strides toward addressing the question.”
Biologist Stephen Brusatte from the University of Edinburgh said the team did a “great job” in mapping out the patterns of modern mammals on a family tree, and by running a variety of statistical tests to estimate when different types of activity patterns, like daytime behavior, evolved.
“But until we find a way to look at fossils and directly figure out how these extinct animals were behaving, it will still be a prediction,” he told Gizmodo. “It may be that the end-Cretaceous extinction caused a big shift from nocturnal to diurnal mammals, but it wouldn’t surprise me if some mammals living alongside the dinosaurs were also active during the day and we just haven’t found a good way to determine that yet. That will be the next big step in testing these results.”


Galaxies didn’t always take on the beautiful spiral shape we’ve come to associate with Andromeda and our own Milky Way. Looking far away into deep space—and into the past—ancient galaxies mostly look like giant blobs. But thanks to gravity’s light-bending properties, scientists have spotted a confounding thing in the distance: what appears to be the oldest spiral yet.
There’s still debate as to the exact conditions required to form spiral arms, and whether they’re permanent or temporary galactic features. But, if truly a spiral, then this newly discovered galaxy could help scientists understand when, how and why spiral arms form.
Advertisement

“Detailed observations of spiral galaxies at high redshift,” like this new bad boy, “will enable meaningful investigations into these physical processes that remain elusive in simulations,” the authors write in the paper published in the Astrophysical Journal.
Gravity confers a massive benefit to astronomers hoping to study the most distant reaches of the Universe: it bends the shape of space, and therefore bends the path of light traveling past the largest clusters. This is similar to how a magnifying glass works, but using galaxies and spacetime instead of glass.
The international team of scientists found two magnified images of the galaxy, called A1689B11, in two different points of the sky around their magnifying glass, a cluster of galaxies called Abell 1689. They followed the initial discovery with a year of measurements using the Hawaiian Gemini North telescope’s “Near-infrared Integral-Field Spectrograph” tool. This tool could help resolve the velocity of the gases in the distant spinning blob.
The measurements revealed a disk-shaped galaxy spinning towards Earth on one side and away from Earth on the other, as well as a spiral arm, 2.6 billion years after the universe first formed. That’s ancient—today we know the universe is around 14 billion years old.
The image still looked like a blob to me, so I passed it along to other researchers to see what they thought.  Asantha Cooray, physics and astronomy professor at the University of California-Irvine agreed in an email that the spiral image alone wasn’t clear and instead could have been merging galaxies. “But in such situations the velocity field would be more complex than [the one] seen in the data....While [it’s a] bit of a step to then say it’s a spiral galaxy I think its fine given what we know about galaxies.”
David Law, associate astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute and part-discoverer of the now-second most ancient spiral galaxy, agreed that the results were suggestive—but “this galaxy seems to have a dispersion more akin to modern-day disk galaxies,” he said in an email. “I look forward to seeing how the results shown here evolve with deeper Keck/OSIRIS observations.” He was happy to see the gravitational lensing technique revealing what might have been otherwise hidden.
Scientists seem to be in agreement that NASA’s new James Webb Space Telescope, scheduled to launch in 2019, will change the game. The paper’s authors write: “future observations with JWST will greatly increase the sample of these rare galaxies and unveil the earliest onset of spiral arms.”
[ApJ]


Speaking at a science conference in Ottawa on Thursday, Canada’s newly appointed governor general, Julie Payette, directed some harsh comments towards climate skeptics, astrologists, and believers of “divine intervention.” Critics complained that it’s not the governor general’s place to get involved in such matters, but Prime Minister Justin Trudeau defended the speech.
That Julie Payette, 54, would be a such staunch supporter of science is hardly a surprise. The computer and electrical engineer flew on two Space Shuttle missions (in 1999 and 2009), logging 25 total days in space. She was appointed governor general on July 13th, 2017 by the Trudeau government, and she hasn’t wasted time in making her mark—particularly when it comes to the promotion of science.
Advertisement

At this week’s Canadian Science Policy Conference, Payette argued for greater public acceptance of science, saying it’s time for Canadians step away from false beliefs such as astrology and divine intervention, while speaking out against people who insist that human activity isn’t responsible for climate change.
Such language isn’t typical of a Canadian governor general. As a state-appointed representative of the Queen, it’s a position of mere symbolic importance. As governor general, Payette is supposed to be an impartial overseer of the democratic process, and not get involved in politics or spiritual matters. That said, there’s nothing in the Canadian constitution that precludes the governor general from speaking out. And indeed, this latest governor general is not like the others, and she’s not holding back.
“So many people...still believe—want to believe—that maybe taking a sugar pill will cure cancer...and that your future [and your personality]...can be determined by looking at planets coming in front of invented constellations,” she said during the speech. In a clear reference to Creationists, Payette said we’re “still debating and still questioning whether life was a divine intervention,” or whether it came from the natural, random process of Darwinian natural selection.

On the topic of climate change, Payette said: “Can you believe that still today in learned society, in houses of government, unfortunately, we’re still debating and still questioning whether humans have a role in the Earth warming up or whether even the Earth is warming up, period?”
This isn’t the first time that Payette has dared to address climate change, having mentioned it in two of her three previous public engagement (including her acceptance speech as Canada’s new governor general). As Canada’s new GG, she appears to have taken up climate change as a main cause.
Later, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau praised Payette’s speech, saying she stands in support of science and the truth. “We are a government grounded in science,” he said. “Canadians are people who understand the value of science and knowledge as a foundation for the future of our country.”
Critics from both the media and within politics wasted no time in attacking the speech, which they criticized for its overreach and insensitivity.
Advertisement

“Those who read and write horoscopes would be entitled to take offence,” said reporter Aaron Wherry in CBC News. “[And] however strongly one feels about the science of evolution, religious belief might generally be considered sacrosanct, or at least a topic that the appointed occupant of Rideau Hall should avoid commenting on.”
Alise Mills, a political strategist for the Conservative Party, said Payette’s speech inappropriately ventured into politics, and that it was mean spirited. “I definitely agree science is key but I think there is a better way to do that without making fun of other people,” she said.
Conservative leader Andrew Scheer blasted into the Prime Minister for his support of the speech. “It is extremely disappointing that the prime minister will not support Indigenous peoples, Muslims, Jews, Sikhs, Christians and other faith groups who believe there is truth in their religion,” he said in a statement posted to Facebook. “Respect for diversity includes respect for the diversity of religious beliefs, and Justin Trudeau has offended millions of Canadians with his comments‎.”
Advertisement

In his condemnation, Scheer is obviously reading way too much in Payette’s speech, but this episode shows how difficult it is to advocate for science and “the truth” (in Trudeau’s words) without impinging on people’s personal beliefs. Payette’s tone may have been harsh, but in this bewildering era of anti-science, her words were a breath of fresh air.
[CBC News]


Why do some therapies work wonders on some patients, but seem to have virtually no effect on others? Two fascinating new studies in Science shed light on one potential contributing factor in treatment outcome for cancer patients: The trillions of microrganisms that live in our guts.
The makeup of a person’s microbiome, the two studies found, may play a significant role in whether cancer immunotherapy is effective. A diverse microbiome populated with lots of good gut bacteria can help maximize the effectiveness of immunotherapy treatments, one paper found. Meanwhile, the other found that antibiotics which deplete the body of its microbial diversity seem to make treatment less effective.
Advertisement

The two new studies add to a growing body of evidence that suggests gut bacteria plays an important role in disease. In one intriguing study published earlier this year, researchers traced the roots of a brain disorder that had long stumped scientists to a particular type of gut bacteria. Other studies have linked gut bacteria to everything from athleticism to anxiety, although some of those results are sometimes controversial.
Recently, several other studies have shed light on just how important having the right cocktail of gut microbes may be in treating cancer in particular. Another study published this week found that the presences of certain gut bacteria could cause some chemotherapy treatments to become toxic to patients with colorectal cancer.
“Many studies across the field of microbiome research have clearly established that our gut microbes can dictate how our immune system functions throughout our body,” Justin Sonnenburg, a Stanford microbiologist not affiliated with the two new Science studies, told Gizmodo. “This gut microbiome-immune connection means that changing the gut microbiome, whether via diet, probiotics, antibiotics, fecal transplant, or using some other means, has the potential to influence diverse processes, such as autoimmune disease, response to infections, and effectiveness of immunotherapy.”
One of this week’s Science studies looked specifically at two bacteria that seem to bolster the efficacy of an immunotherapy drug for metastatic melanomas that targets a checkpoint protein on immune cells known as PD-1. Researchers  collected oral, gut, and fecal microbiome samples before and after therapy in cancer patients. They then divided the study group into patients that had responded to therapy, and those that had not, genetically sequencing the microbiome of patients in each group to look for commonalities. Two particular bacteria, faecalibacterium and clostridiales, seemed to account for the difference in the number of cancer-attacking T-cells that each patient group had. In a second part of the study, when researchers gave fecal matter transplants from patients that responded well to mice with microbe-free guts, they also responded positively to treatment.
The second study also looked at the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitor immunotherapy, but in patients with kidney and lung cancer. It found patients who had recently undergone a course of antibiotics had poorer survival rates. Those antibiotics appeared to be linked to a depletion of a bacterium called Akkermansia muciniphila in the microbiome. Again, researchers implanted the bacteria into germ-free mice and found it increased their immune response during treatment.
The two studies point to a potentially powerful method for improving the outcome of cancer treatment: Examining patient microbiomes to make sure they have the necessary flora for treatment to work.
Advertisement

It also points to a need for more research to better understand the connections between our gut health and the rest of our health.
“What is urgently important,” said Sonnenburg, “is to conduct detailed study of these connections in humans so that we can begin to harness this newly appreciated potential for improved human health.”
[Science]


New observations show there’s at least one, but possibly three rings, of cold dust around our nearest star, Proxima Centauri. That could indicate the presence of more planets, according to new research.
It would be incredible if astronomers could just look at the sky with infinite resolution telescopes and see precisely what’s going on—but they can’t, even for the closest stars. Instead, they have to take observations from lots of different instruments in lots of different wavelengths of light to piece together an entire picture. After new observations of Proxima Centauri with the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array radio telescope in Chile, there are hints that the story is much richer than last year’s already incredible Proxima announcement of a nearby exoplanet in a habitable zone.
In what’s being hailed as one of the biggest astronomical discoveries of the century, scientists…
“This cold dust is telling us there could be a planetary system with asteroid belts,” Guillem Anglada-Escudé, one of the paper’s authors from Queen Mary University of London, told Gizmodo. “There’s very rich history and lots of things to discover.”
ALMA, the telescope used to make the discovery, is probably the best telescope of its kind right now that observes far infrared and high frequency microwave light. This comparatively short observation revealed what appeared to be a disk of cold debris around the star. This could mean the presence of other planets that stop more planets from forming, the way Jupiter prevents our solar system’s asteroid belt from coalescing into a planet. There could even be an elaborate planetary system, according to the paper submitted to The Astrophysical Journal Letters.
Advertisement

You also might wonder why they can’t just spot a planet directly. Dust has a much higher surface area than single planets so it’s easier to spot, explained Anglada-Escudé.
Anglada-Escudé himself worked on last year’s discovery of Proxima Centauri b, and he told me that researchers are still hard at work trying to understand what’s orbiting Proxima. While it’s a preliminary result, he said there’s some variability in visible light bands that “could be caused by the star, but there seems to be evidence of another planet.” [Coincidentally, Anglada-Escudé shares a name with the paper’s first author, Guillem Anglada. This caused confusion during our interview.]
Unfortunately, this ALMA run wasn’t enough to create the incredible images you may have seen of dust disks around other stars. That means scientists don’t know for certain whether there’s a planet or how many rings there are.
“This time we could only get the first snapshot,” said Anglada-Escudé. “We want to get more ALMA time to get higher resolution images of these dust rings and see what they really are.”
[ApJL via ESO]


While conducting an analysis of woolly mammoth DNA, European researchers noticed something a little strange. A disproportionate number of male mammoths were found preserved in traps, such as holes and bogs. The explanation, say the researchers, can be be tied to the behavior of their distant relatives—the modern elephant.
Imagine the scene: It’s about 12,000 years ago during the last Ice Age and a lone woolly mammoth is venturing across a frozen lake. Its finely-tuned ears hears  a crack. And then another. The mammoth picks up the pace in hopes of reaching the shore—but it’s too late. The ice collapses under the weight of the massive beast, and it plunges through into the frigid water below. It frantically tries to get out but it’s no use; the mammoth drowns after just a few minutes of struggle.
Advertisement

Chances are, this woolly mammoth was male, according to new research published yesterday in Current Biology.
In the course of analyzing mammoth DNA, Swedish Museum of Natural History researchers noticed an odd gender skew. Of the 98 woolly mammoth genomes studied, nearly 70 percent belonged to males. Since the ratio of males to females was likely balanced a birth, the scientists had to consider other explanations, namely those involving the way these mammoths were preserved after death.
The last woolly mammoth to grace this good Earth died around 1,650 years ago on Wrangel Island. The relatively recent demise of this species, plus their typically well-preserved frozen remains, means scientists have lots of DNA to work with. But as is typical of paleontological findings, there’s almost always a selectional effect in play in regards to which remains are discovered and subsequently analyzed.
“Most bones, tusks, and teeth from mammoths and other Ice Age animals haven’t survived,” said study co-author Love Dalén in a statement. “It is highly likely that the remains that are found in Siberia these days have been preserved because they have been buried, and thus protected from weathering. The new findings imply that male mammoths more often died in a way that meant their remains were buried, perhaps by falling through lake ice in winter or getting stuck in bogs.”
But why should this be the case? Why did more males fall into traps than females?
The explanation, according to the new study, is that inexperienced males travelled alone, and they often got themselves killed by falling into traps that made preservation more likely.
This theory makes a lot of sense when you consider modern elephants—a highly matriarchal species. Modern elephants typically consist of herds of females and young elephants, with young elephants led by an experienced adult female. Males, on the other hand, tend to live alone or among other bachelors, and engage in more risk-taking behavior.
Advertisement

“Without the benefit of living in a herd led by an experienced female, male mammoths may have had a higher risk of dying in natural traps such as bogs, crevices, and lakes,” said Dalén.
This study shows that woolly mammoths were startlingly similar to modern elephants in terms of their behavior, and that fossil remains can tell us a lot about the social and behavioral aspects of extinct species.
[Current Biology]


Our Sun is powered by a fundamental phenomenon whereby atoms combine to unleash tremendous amounts of energy. But atoms might not be the only things that participate in this explosive reaction.
Researchers at the Large Hadron Collider’s LHCb experiment recently discovered a new particle whose constituent parts required lots of energy to bind together. But another team found that a fusion reaction could exist between a pair of quarks to produce this particle, and others, releasing energy. They have some ideas for how to look for such a reaction—but no, you won’t see quark bombs anytime soon.
Advertisement

“The very short lifetimes of the heavy bottom and charm quarks preclude any practical applications of such reactions,” the researchers write in the study published yesterday in Nature.
As you may remember from physics class, there are six kinds of quarks—the up and the down that make up pretty much everything you can see and then four other much rarer and much heavier ones. At the crux of this new research is a recently discovered arrangement of quarks called the Ξcc++ particle, also known as the “doubly charged, doubly charmed xi.”
This doubly charged, doubly charmed xi has an up quark and two of the heavy charm quarks. It takes a comparatively large amount of energy to bind these charm quarks together, after which leftover energy is released. That released energy would be about on par with that from the nuclear reactions that produce our Sun’s energy. It’s a relatively small amount in the individual reactions—less than the amount of energy required to transmit a single bit of data—but a lot given that it’s occurring in a subatomic particle.
Fusion reactions based on the heavier bottom quark—that is, if the resultant particle actually exists—could release ten times more energy than this xi particle, write the authors. But it would be difficult to produce this kind of reaction. The bottom-containing particles we know about only stick around for a tiny fraction of a second, traveling somewhere between two and 22 millimeters in CERN’s LHCb experiment. Then, they lose energy and turn into other particles like a meteor breaking up in Earth’s atmosphere.
It might be possible to study these quark fusion reactions by colliding heavy atoms, like the beams of lead (stripped of their electrons) sometimes collided at the LHC, the authors write.
There are other exciting implications aside from whatever crazy sci-fi dream “quark fusion” might elicit. The high binding energy means maybe there are exotic atoms that contain charm or bottom quarks instead of up just and down quarks, writes Gerald A. Miller, a University of Washington-Seattle physicist, in Nature News & Views. Or maybe there’s some explanation for the true identity of dark matter tied up somewhere in there.
Advertisement

Who knows. This is physics. Weird things happen all over the universe—including here on Earth.
[Nature]


Should all go according to plan, NASA will launch its next Martian rover in July 2020. The robotic probe is still under construction, but early signs are that the next-gen rover will be equipped with an impressive assortment of high-tech gadgets.
The rover is currently under construction at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, and doesn’t have a name yet aside from “Mars 2020.” Like its predecessors, the future rover will scour the Red Planet for signs of previous habitability, and conduct scientific analyses of Mars’ geology, atmosphere, and other natural phenomena. But unlike those rovers that came before it, this one has a few more tricks up its metallic sleeve.
Advertisement

As NASA announced earlier this week, the probe will be equipped with no less than 23 different cameras. That’s 13 more than Spirit and Opportunity, and six more than Curiosity. Of its 23 cameras, nine will be dedicated to engineering tasks, seven to science, and another seven for tracking the probe’s entry, descent, and landing. These “eyes” will allow the probe to create sweeping panoramas, uncover obstacles, and study Mars in exquisite detail. Importantly, these cameras will work in tandem with the many scientific instruments onboard.
During its descent,  cameras will snap photos of the parachute unfurling and as it slowly drifts down onto the planet’s red-stained surface. Once it’s out-and-about, an internal camera will peer closely at rock samples. When it’s done playing lab technician, the robot will “cache” the samples and deposit them onto the rocky surface for a future mission to collect (yes, this robot is going to be a litterbug).
The cameras will also provide more color and 3D imaging than previous missions. Whereas Curiosity had the Mastcam, the 2020 version will feature the Mastcam-z, where the “z” stands for “zoom.” The cameras will also be able to support more stereoscopic images, which are good for scanning geological features, assessing distance, and hunting for the next exploration site from far away.
The Navcams and Hazcams on the previous rovers, used for navigating and avoiding hazards, produced 1-megapixel digital images in black and white. The 2020 versions of these cameras will acquire high-rez 20-megapixel images in full color (hallelujah!). These cameras will also be able to reduce motion blurs, which means the robot will be able to snap images while zipping across the Martian surface. And because the lenses will be wider, the 2020 rover will be able to capture a broader view of the landscape.
“Our previous Navcams would snap multiple pictures and stitch them together,” said JPL’s Colin McKinney in an agency release. “With the wider field of view, we get the same perspective in one shot.”
Advertisement

Now, you might be thinking that full color, 3D-images filmed in high-resolution are not a big deal, but it is a big deal for a robot located 34 million miles away. With all these new gadgets comes troves of data, which then have to be beamed back towards Earth. This added equipment represents a frustrating limiting factor.
To address this, the cameras onboard the 2020 rover will compress the data (which Curiosity does as well), but another solution will be to use orbiting spacecraft as data relays. This idea was first tested during the Spirit and Opportunity rover missions, where NASA used its Mars Odyssey orbiter as an interplanetary relay station. Who says we’re not living in the future?
“We were expecting to do that mission on just tens of megabits each Mars day, or sol,” said mission scientist Justin Maki. “When we got that first Odyssey overflight, and we had about 100 megabits per sol, we realized it was a whole new ballgame.” By “sol,” Maki is referring to a single Martian day, which is 24 hours and 39 minutes long. For the 2020 mission, NASA is planning to use spacecraft already in Martian orbit, including the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, MAVEN, and the ESA’s Trace Gas Orbiter.
And that’s just the cameras. Other proposed scientific instruments include an X-ray fluorescence spectrometer to examine Martian surface materials, a radar imager, a microphone, an ultraviolet spectrometer, and even a Mars Helicopter Scout (HMS)—a two pound solar powered drone that would buzz above the rover, helping it to select future exploration targets.
In addition, the new rover will feature wheels that are more durable (Curiosity’s are in bad shape), have better traction, and have a performance-maximizing shape. The 2020 rover will also try to produce oxygen from Mars’ carbon-dioxide atmosphere, which could establish an important precedent for the Red Planet’s first colonists.
Advertisement

As to where the rover will land, that’s still not known. NASA has released a shortlist of landing sites, including Northeast Syrtis (an area once warmed by volcanic activity), the Jezero Crater (the remnant of a Martian lake), and Columbia Hills, which NASA’s Spirit lander explored during the early-to-mid 2000s.
Regardless of the site chosen, the next mission to Mars is going to be absolutely brilliant.
[NASA]


In the US, so far 29 states and DC have legalized medical marijuana, as modern research has suggested that weed can help treat conditions like chronic pain and the side effects of chemotherapy. Some companies, though, are abusing the growing acceptance of weed for medicinal purposes. On Wednesday, the FDA reported that it has sent warning letters to four companies claiming that marijuana-based products can treat or cure cancer.
Between them, the four companies— Greenroads Health, Natural Alchemist, That’s Natural!, and Stanley Brothers Social Enterprises—sold more than 25 products claiming to treat cancer and other serious diseases. The products in question contained cannabidiol, a compound in  marijuana that has not been approved by the FDA for any medical use. You can get CBD in a variety of forms, including in oil drops, capsules, syrups, teas and creams. One product from That’s Natural!, for example, claimed that cannabidiol “makes cancer cells commit ‘suicide’ without killing other cells.” Another product from Greenroads Health claimed that “CBD [has] anti-proliferative properties that inhibit cell division and growth in certain types of cancer, not allowing the tumor to grow” and could treat “asthma, Alzheimer’s disease, arthritis, autism, bipolar disorder and various types of cancer.” And in a testimonial for Natural Alchemist, one customer claimed CBD had not only helped cure their arthritis, but also treat traumatic brain injuries in military friends of their son.
Advertisement

In its letters, the FDA notes that companies not only made these claims on their websites, but across social media. The FDA noted that the cannabis claims are part of a larger  uptick in unapproved products claiming to treat cancer. When bogus health claims make their way onto social media, they can be especially damaging, not only spreading false information but steering people away from treatments that might actually work. Earlier this week, a story from BuzzFeed noted how false health advice spreads on the social network Pinterest, with claims that, for instance, “vitamin B17” could be a “cancer treatment” getting saved to more than 16,000 boards. Yikes.
“There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers,” said FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb in a statement. “When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could extend lives.”
While some medications containing synthetic THC (another cannabis compound) are FDA-approved, medical use of marijuana is still controversial and, at least at the federal level, illegal. The truth is, because of marijuana’s legal status, there haven’t been a whole lot of large, long-term studies tracking the side effects and efficacy of cannabidiol for medical use, though early research has been promising. Lack of research is one reason the agency has so far steered clear of greenlighting products containing cannabidiol for medical use.
So if you see a weed lollipop claiming it can cure whatever ails you, chances are it’s probably little-more than a candy-coated lie.
[FDA]


All of the orangutans in the world would probably only fit into a college football stadium. Today, scientists are announcing that just one of the sections of that stadium is actually an entirely different species. And it’s already in danger.
The international team identified Pongo tapanuliensis based on skull shape and genetic data from an isolated population of 800 orangutans in the Sumatran Batang Toru ecosystem. This number was almost certainly much larger in the past. The scientists had few samples for their research, but the robust analysis convinced them of the differences in this tiny group.
Advertisement

“We realized that these guys were special,” study author Michael Krützen from the University of Zürich told Gizmodo.
Hints to a new orangutan species began popping up in genetic data a few years ago, explained Krützen. P. tapanuliensis has genetic markers in its mitochondrial DNA, a special set of DNA passed only from mothers to children, that looked more similar to the Bornean orangutans’ than the nearby Sumatran ones. The team also acquired a P. tapanuliensis skull, whose shape seemed to differ substantially from the skulls of the other species.
A genetic analysis revealed that the new species likely split from the rest of the Sumatran population around 3.4 million years ago. They intermingled with the other Sumatran species occasionally, but this seemed to stop completely between 10 and 20,000 years ago. Female orangutans typically stay put, so any genetic material flowing between the populations would have to come from intruding males.
Erin Vogel, an anthropology professor at Rutgers not involved in the study, found the results exciting. “The new model presented here reveals a deep evolutionary split between the Batang Toru population and other extant [i.e. opposite of extinct] populations,” she told Gizmodo in an email. She noted that so long as scientists are calling Sumatran and Bornean orangutans different species, “then indeed this population should be considered a different species.”
But the study has its limitations. The scientists identified P. tapanuliensis based on only one physical specimen and two individual genomes, according to the paper published today in Current Biology. The skull also fell within the possible ranges of skull sizes for the other populations, notes Vogel. And it’s important to note that the species probably could interbreed. Many scientists don’t consider interbreeding important when it comes to new species—it’s not about if they can, but whether they actually would in the wild.
Others didn’t find the scant number of specimens a problem for identifying the species. “I used to work in a museum and sometimes you have very limited material available,” especially in the case of fossils, said anthropology professor Vincent Nijman from Oxford Brookes University in the United Kingdom, who also wasn’t involved in the study.
Advertisement

If the greater scientific community accepts P. tapanuliensis as a new species, then it would be an incredibly rare group—800 people would only be enough to fit into a party at a large ballroom or warehouse. That means there’s conservation work to do. Nijman thought this work was the responsibility of Indonesian government, and pointed out that the population is almost certainly in decline.
Krützen agreed that there was impending conservation work. “There’s much pressure on this habitat,” he said. “There’s mining, a hydroelectric dam [proposal] that would encroach on the habitat of these animals. People hunt orangutans in that area. It wasn’t our motivation, but now we hope this research will trigger more awareness of this unique isolated population.”
[Current Biology]



Late last week, an Australian couple stumbled upon a freaky scene in which thousands of Portuguese man o’ wars, also known as bluebottles, had washed up on the rocks just south of Bateman’s Bay in New South Wales. Disturbingly, it’s a sight we’re going to have to get used to in our warming world.
Brett Wallensky and his partner Claudia spotted the scene while walking along Barlings beach on Friday October 27, having spotted a few in the water earlier in the day while kayaking and observing humpback whales. The couple couldn’t get over the striking blue color of the conglomeration, describing the scene as “alien.”
Advertisement

“There must have been thousands of them beached and they were all alive and wriggling,” said Wallensky in a StoryTrender post. “It was the stuff nightmares are made of. It was just horrible to look at them wriggling around and trying to sting you. If you fell in there and got that many stings all over you I can’t imagine you would survive.”
Indeed, these venomous Portuguese man o’ wars (Physalia utriculus) can be a huge annoyance, stinging hundreds of people each day around the world. Stings from these animals are very painful, but generally not life threatening. At least, not when you’re stung by just one. Falling into a mass like this would be...bad.
“I would be awed by a sight like this! It’s not often that you get to see so many of these incredible animals up close. But don’t get too close!,” Christie Wilcox, a marine biologist at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, told Gizmodo. “Bluebottles are not true jellyfish, and instead are a colonial organism in the same phylum. So they are related to jellyfish, and similarly possess a potent sting. Their stinging cells can remain active for weeks after beaching, so even if the animals are dead, they can still pack a whollop!”
Wilcox saidthat there have been a few deaths from a related species in the Atlantic; the ones in Australia are of the smaller, less venomous Indo-Pacific variety.
“Severe cases always involve meters of stinging tentacle. Our most recent research...has found that stings from bluebottles and their relatives are best treated by rinsing with vinegar and then applying heat (45C/113F for 45 min or longer),” said Wilcox. “Seawater rinsing is not a good substitute for vinegar because it doesn’t inactivate the stingers, so you can actually make the injury worse. So if you have tentacles on you and don’t have vinegar, it’s best to carefully pluck them off. If you happen to have it, the most effective rinse and treatment are the Sting No More products.”
Stings from a Portuguese man o’ war are as common as they are dangerous, yet there’s a lack of…
As for the mass beaching itself, Wilcox says this happens every so often in certain areas when conditions are right. These sea creatures, with their vivid blue sails, can be pushed around by strong winds, and strong onshore winds can shove them into the shallows.
Advertisement

“I don’t think there’s anything particularly special about this mass stranding of bluebottles,” Wilcox told Gizmodo. “It’s a bit hard to tell, but it looks like the location happens to be a place where debris pushed ashore clumps together naturally (like how some places on a beach get mats of seaweed while others are clear).”
That said, Portuguese man o’ wars, like jellyfish, are poised to be the greatest beneficiaries of climate change, so scenes like this could start to happen with increased frequency. As Wilcox said, this happens when “conditions are right.” In a Popular Science post from last year, marine biologist Lisa-ann Gershin explained it like this:
...climate warming...amps up jellyfish in unbelievable ways. Fractions of degree changes above normal water temperatures amp up their metabolism, they eat more and breed more and live longer — it’s astounding what a little bit of warming can do for jellyfish. Trawling gives them new room for their polyps to settle, and while acidification or chemical pollution doesn’t hurt jellyfish, it hurts everything else like fish and shellfish that struggle with environmental change.
So for those of you who like to take long walks on the beach, you’re going to have to a bit more careful.
[Sydney Morning Herald, StoryTrender]


Here’s the thing about NASA’s rocket scientists: They’re smart. And maybe a little weird. When you get literal rocket scientists to channel their energy into something silly like a pumpkin carving contest, the results are bound to be incredible. Seriously:

Two groups at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory has been running their pumpkin carving contest since 2011 (which we cover pretty much every year). Participants use power tools and machines to make pumpkins spin, expand, and even fly. The lone rule is that they have only an hour to carve the pumpkin—which they must use, somehow. Preparation is allowed beforehand.
Advertisement

JPL offers some tips for how to carve a pumpkin like they do, like including the guts, adding paint, wiring with lights, and using an Arduino to control the movement. You can see a full list of the participants on the JPL Flickr here.
I’ve reached out to JPL to see which pumpkin actually won the contest and will update the post when I hear back.
[JPL]
Update 4:20PM EST: A NASA spokesperson passed along the following list of winners:
Spacecraft Mechanical Engineering group:
First Place: Europa Clipper Pirate ShipSecond Place: The Harvest (Ghostbusters Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man)Third Place: Operation Frank-O-Drop / Pumpkin Parachute
Payload and Small Spacecraft Mechanical Engineering Section:First Place: Group 355M – Class “H” Mission (Hamster Wheel Pumpkin)Second Place: Group 355S – Super Nova Death of a StarThird Place: Group 355L – Starshade Pumpkin Launch Restraint and Unfurling System (Plus)


Welcome to WHAT NOW, a morning round-up of the news/fresh horrors that await you today.
Sam Clovis is many things: a failed politician, a former talk radio host who’s compared being gay to child molestation, and an ex-campaign aide to Donald Trump who now finds himself embroiled in the Russia investigation. But Clovis has now added another notch to his belt: a ready admission that he’s definitely not a scientist—which is a bit of a problem since Trump has nominated him to be...the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief scientist.
Advertisement

In an October 17 letter obtained by The Washington Post, Clovis repeatedly made clear that he’s extraordinarily unqualified for the job he’s been nominated for. Clovis was responding to questions about his experience posed by the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee’s top Democrat, Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow.
The questionnaire went like this, per the newspaper:
“Please list all graduate level courses you have taken in natural science,” the second of 10 questions requested.
“None,” Clovis replied.
“Please list all membership and leadership roles you have held within any agricultural scientific, agricultural education, or agricultural economic organizations,” the third question read.
“None,” Clovis replied.
“Please describe any awards, designations, or academic recognition you have received specifically related to agricultural science,” the fourth question read.
“None,” Clovis replied.
Very nicely done! May we all someday know the bloated hubris of Sam Clovis in our own lives.
As the Post points out, the role  has typically been held by individuals with advanced degrees in science or medicine, and recent Congressional legislation specified that the appointee be chosen “from among distinguished scientists with specialized training.”
This latest development comes after a group of more than 3,000 top scientists sent a letter protesting Clovis’ nomination to Stabenow and Republican committee chairman  Pat Roberts of Kansas, highlighting Clovis’ history of “denial of the scientific consensus on climate change and ill-conceived and offensive racial comments” and a professional background “completely devoid of relevant scientific experience.”
UPDATE, 11:16 a.m. ET: Clovis has withdrawn from consideration for the undersecretary position, writing in a letter to the president that the “political climate inside Washington has made it impossible for me to receive balanced and fair consideration for this position.”

WHAT ELSE?

For more news and opinions that get under your skin, follow Splinter on Facebook.


Though they were constructed nearly 5,000 years ago, the Great Pyramids of Egypt are still packed with secrets. Using a technique that leverages the power of cosmic rays, scientists have confirmed the presence of a large empty space within Khufu’s pyramid—a void that’s signaling the presence of a possible hidden chamber.
It’s tempting to think that all the great archaeological discoveries from ancient Egypt have already been made, but new research published today in Nature shows there’s still plenty for us to uncover.

An investigation into the internal structure of Khufu’s pyramid—the largest pyramid in Giza—has revealed the presence of a large and inaccessible “void” within the structure. The researchers who led the study, Mehdi Tayoubi from the HIP Institute in France and Kunihiro Morishima from Nagoya University in Japan, won’t go so far as to say the cavity is a hidden chamber, but they’re reasonably convinced the internal feature is a deliberate architectural feature of the pyramid. As to what’s inside is anyone’s guess, but the presence of artifacts and funeral items are not out of the question, according to Egyptologists.
The discovery was made possible through the unlikely intersection of archaeology and particle physics. By making meticulous measurements of muons—elementary particles that rain down on Earth from deep space and are capable of traveling through solid objects—researchers were able to characterize the densities within the pyramid, revealing the presence of an empty space that measures at least 100 feet (30 meters) in length.
That Khufu’s pyramid may still hold a chamber waiting to be found is within the realm of possibility.
Advertisement

This massive structure was built on the Giza Plateau during the Egyptian Fourth Dynasty (c. 2613 to 2494 BC) by the Pharaoh Khufu (sometimes referred to as Cheops), who reigned from 2509 to 2483 BC. The pyramid initially measured 481 feet (146 meters) in height, and was the tallest structure in the world for more than 3,800 years.
There are three known rooms inside the monument: the King’s Chamber, the Queen’s Chamber, and an unfinished room cut into the bedrock upon which the pyramid was built. There’s also the Grand Gallery, a sloped hallway-like structure measuring 28 feet (8.6 meters) high, 153 feet (46.7 meters) long, and about 6 feet (2 meters) wide.  The original entrance leading to these internal structures, known as the “descending corridor,” is located at the North Face, but today, tourists are allowed to enter the pyramid through a tunnel attributed to Caliph al-Ma’mun (around AD 820).
Archaeologists don’t have the original blueprints to Khufu’s pyramid, and there’s no consensus on how the structure was created or what hidden features may still lie inside. The only known documents, written on papyri, only describe the logistics of the construction, such as how the stones were transported (fun fact: the Great Pyramid contains an estimated 2.3 million blocks).
Detecting hidden chambers or corridors is not easy for archaeologists, who mustn’t damage ancient structures in any way. Egypt’s Supreme Council of Antiquities is very strict about what can and cannot be done to these historic monuments, requiring scientists to come up with innovative new ways of exploring the pyramids.
Back in the 1960s, archaeologist Luis Alvarez came up with the idea of using muons—a type of elementary particle that’s capable of penetrating dense materials—to peer inside Khafre’s pyramid (the second largest of the Giza Pyramids). Unfortunately, his team lacked the technological and scientific know-how to pull it off, but Alvarez’s idea has proven its worth. Today, the technique, known as muography, has been used by archaeologists to analyze ancient Roman structures and Mexican pyramids, and by geologists to explore features such as volcanoes. Muography has also been used to assess damage at the beleaguered Fukushima nuclear power plant, and by the US military  to find hidden caves and tunnels in Afghanistan.
In terms of the physics involved, muon particles originate from the interactions of cosmic rays with the atoms in the upper atmosphere. They pepper the Earth at nearly the speed of light (they’re harmless to humans and other animal life), and researchers can visualize the presence and trajectory of these particles using various muon detection schemes. Muons are only partially absorbed by solid objects, and can thus penetrate stone. But by mapping the positions and trajectories if these particles, researchers can visualize the internal composition of solid structures—revealing things such as stone formations or open-air cavities.
“Similar to X-rays which can penetrate the body and allow bone imaging, these elementary particles can keep a quasi-linear trajectory while going through hundreds of meters of stone before decaying or being absorbed,” write the researchers in the new study.
Advertisement

Last year, the ScanPyramids project—the same team of researchers involved in this latest discovery—used muography and infrared thermography (which measures temperature) to uncover a corridor directly above the Great Pyramid’s original entrance. Using the same idea, the researchers have now discovered the large void located directly above the Grand Gallery.
To validate the presence of the void, the researchers recruited specialists from three different institutions. Each team employed their own unique muon detection technique, and stationed their scanners both within and outside the pyramid.
Researchers from Nagoya University used nuclear emulsion films to track the muons in three dimensions, a team from France’s Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) used scintillator hodoscopes (scintillating materials emit light when particles pass through it), and researchers from KEK High Energy Accelerator Research Organization did it using gas-based detectors. Because only one percent of muons reach the detectors, data must be meticulously accumulated over the course of several months (the exposures began in December 2015).
All three teams reached the same conclusion—there’s a large, open cavity directly above the Great Gallery, and it’s about the same size and shape. The void is about 70 feet (21 meters) above ground level, and is at least 100 feet (30 meters) long, but the researchers aren’t sure of its inclination.
So what is it?
During a press conference held yesterday, the researchers stubbornly refused to speculate. “We’re avoiding the word ‘chamber,’” said Mehdi Tayoubi. “We know that it’s a big void, but we’re not calling it a chamber.” The ScanPyramids scientists admitted they’re not experts in this area, and that specialists in Egyptian architecture should use this discovery as an invitation to join in and help explain the mysterious cavity.
Advertisement

“There are still many architectural hypotheses to consider; in particular, the big void could be made of one or several adjacent structures, and it could be inclined or horizontal,” write the researchers in the study. “The detailed structure of the void should be further studied...more interdisciplinary collaborations [will be required to help understand] the pyramid and its construction process.”
Importantly, the researchers were able to rule out “non-void” possibilities. Because small gaps or crevices cannot be detected using the muon technique (it can only detect wide open spaces), there’s virtually no way the space is a “swiss cheese” of stone, as some scientists have speculated. It’s also unlikely, the researchers say, that it’s just a sign of interior wear-and-tear, some kind of collapse or construction flaw in the design, or the juxtaposition of small and large stones. Importantly, the area in question produced the same muon data patterns as scans made of the Grand Gallery—a known “void” within the structure.
Advertisement

Kathlyn M. Cooney, an Associate Professor of Ancient Egyptian Art & Architecture at the University of California Los Angeles, says it’s too early to speculate about the true nature of the void, but a hidden chamber is not an impossibility. Cooney, who wasn’t involved in the new study, said Khufu and his father Sneferu, unlike their Third Dynasty predecessors, began to “float” chambers within their pyramids.
“To construct these internal structures they had to build from the bottom up,” she told Gizmodo, “They had to create the chambers and passages as they built upwards.” To make these interior structures inaccessible (which seems to be the intent), Cooney says the ancient Egyptians refrained from making adjoining corridors, and case the pyramid from the outside to prevent access. “It was brilliant,” she said, “but it was a short-lived phenomenon, and it didn’t happen very often after these two kings.”
Like the ScanPyramids archaeologists, Cooney doesn’t know what’s inside the void, but she said “it would be extraordinary to find potential materials [such as] funerary items and treasures that are almost 5,000 years old.”
The obvious question at this stage is to ask what archaeologists plan on doing to find out more about this mysterious structure. During the press conference, the researchers said they’d like to perform more long term muon scans of the structure, and from different positions. This should allow them to create a more accurate picture of the space, and possibly find more hidden features.
Advertisement

More radically, INRIA researcher Jean-Baptiste Mouret, a member of the ScanPyramids team, is currently designing an innovative robot that will be capable of squirming through a very small hole, and possibly fly like an aerial drone once it’s within the cavity (welcome to archaeology in the 21st century).
Unfortunately, the void is located in a very difficult place to access, and some drilling may be required. This prospect could be minimized should the researchers discover hidden adjoining corridors. Take the recently discovered corridor above the original entrance; this passageway could contain a tunnel all the way to the void in a mirror image of the structures below it.
Advertisement

“If an exploration has to be imagined, a good starting place would be from the suspected corridor at the North Face,” explained the researchers at yesterday’s presser. “But for the moment there is no discussion about that—this is not our responsibility. But because we are engineers, and because we love innovation, we asked Jean-Baptiste to join our team...and we’re currently in the thinking and design process.”
But as Cooney explained to Gizmodo, the researchers will still have to get past the Egyptian antiquities ministry.
“When you claim something like this, and even when you’ve got great science behind you, the Egyptians still have control over their national patrimony,” she said. “Ultimately, it’ll be up to them as to how they’ll want [the pyramid] investigated and analyzed as the archaeologists move forward.” She also says that outside researchers (which is the case here) will have to work with an Egyptian team, and work within the convoluted Egyptian political process.
Lastly, Cooney made a plea to both the press and the public to remain patient.
“We need to stop rushing archaeological discoveries that don’t need to be rushed and push scientists to make declarations about discoveries that aren’t yet proven,” she told Gizmodo, “It’s important to remember the old adage, ‘archaeology is destructive,’ and realize that the next generation will be able to do it better.”
[Nature]


In the course of researching diseases like the Ebola virus, more than 200 labs in the United States work with hazardous pathogens. But oversight of those labs is seriously lagging, with safety lapses occurring at some of them, according to a new report from the US Government Accountability Office.
The Federal Select Agent Program, which is run by the Centers for Disease Control and the Department of Agriculture, regulates how high-containment labs across government, industry, and academia handle 66 different dangerous organisms and toxins, including anthrax, ebola and botulism. But those labs and the procedures for overseeing them have been under scrutiny after a string of incidents over the past few years. In 2014, 84 CDC employees were accidentally exposed to live samples of anthrax after it was inadvertently shipped between labs. That same year, six forgotten vials of decades old smallpox virus were discovered packed in a cardboard box at the National Institutes of Health.
Yikes.
In response to those and other incidents, Congress asked the GAO to evaluate federal procedures for managing dangerous pathogens and the White House announced new measures for improving biosecurity.
Advertisement

That report, released fittingly on Halloween, found that the oversight program still has some issues to address.
“Safety lapses continue to occur at some of the 276 laboratories in the United States that conduct research on select agents—such as Ebola virus or anthrax bacteria—that may cause serious or lethal infection in humans, animals, or plants, raising concerns about whether oversight is effective,” the report said.
For one, many of the labs overseen by the program are within the two agencies that run it, meaning that at times the CDC and USDA are essentially policing themselves. Despite an agreement that the two agencies would conduct inspections of one another’s labs in order to avoid conflicts of interest, the report notes that the USDA conducted inspections of its own labs on three occasions.
The report also found that lab inspections spend too much time focusing on things like theft prevention and not enough time on how to prevent the sorts of accidents that spurred the investigation in the first place. In 2014, for example, it was a failure to follow protocol to make sure that anthrax samples were no longer active that resulted in a live bacteria accidentally being shipped between labs. The program, the report also found, employs inspectors that are overworked and sometimes lack expertise to do their jobs.
The report recommends that, for starters, investigations target the highest risk activities that it oversees. Like, you know, maybe making sure that when there are vials of a deadly, freeze-dried virus lying around, researchers remember where they put it.


If and when the nuclear holocaust begins to bring down society as we know it, it’s not the initial blasts you should be worrying about. Carl Sagan and other scientists once hypothesized that dust blocking out the Sun could bring a nuclear winter. It probably happened before—to the dinosaurs.
A team of scientists have dug deep into the specifics of the Chicxulub impact, the one that accompanied the demise of the dinosaurs 66 million years ago. After new models based on new data, it turns out that the event could have launched an immense amount of sulfur and carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. This would have drastically changed the Earth’s climate and surely had an impact on which species survived.
Advertisement

You may have heard about the effects of the impact on climate before, but this model is based on even more data. The researchers wanted to revisit the climate change after new improvements in mathematics and better understanding of the impact angle of the asteroid and the composition of the Earth below the crater became available. Their results showed that the asteroid could have instantly tossed around 300 gigatons of sulfur and 420 gigatons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. For comparison, all of humanity dumps around 40 gigatons of carbon into the atmosphere annually.
You’re probably wondering why the planet cooled instead of warmed. All of the sulfur would have drastically reduced the amount of incoming solar radiation, like putting a black cover over the greenhouse, explained Anthony Martin, a professor in the department of environmental sciences at Emory University.
The new model predicts that “that surface temperatures were reduced by > 20°C and took over 30 years to recover following the Chicxulub impact,” according to the paper published in Geophysical Research Letters by scientists Natalia Artemieva from the Planetary Science Institute and Joanna Morgan from Imperial College, London. Such a drastic temperature drop would have had (and did have) catastrophic effects on Earth’s life, causing around three-quarters of all species to go extinct. Scientists generally agree that the bigger animals suffered most, but this new paper makes the story even worse.
“The mass extinction would have wiped out even more plants an animals than we thought before,” said Martin. He thought there was sufficient evidence to support the study’s conclusion, while pointing out that this is just a model, and no model is exactly correct. “But this is a useful model,” he said.
Does this mean anything to you today? Aside from better explaining where the dinosaurs went, no...unless there’s a nuclear war or some event that could similarly knock lots of aerosol particles into the atmosphere. Then, well, sorry.
[Geophysical Research Letters]


Giraffes are hard to miss. Scraping the sky at roughly 18 feet up, they are the tallest animals on Earth. Humans have taken notice, becoming infatuated with giraffes from the first moments of the animals’ lives, and revering their iconic, alien gangliness across the globe. But despite all this attention, our species doesn’t have a particularly good grasp of the evolutionary history of giraffes and their relatives. But now, thanks to a newly-discovered fossil of a new species of extinct, ancestral giraffe, the giraffe family tree just grew a few more limbs and came into tighter focus.
The giraffe family (Giraffidae) is an exclusive club these days. Between a maximum of four species of giraffe and the secretive okapi (and its awesome zebra pants!), this denuded branch on the mammalian side of the Tree of Life is what remains of a formerly diverse and widespread bloodline. For millions of years, giraffes and their relatives (giraffids) were found all over the Old World—and many of them were flat-out strange. The familiar, high-rise models didn’t evolve until recently, and much of giraffid prehistory is marked by expansive evolutionary experimentation.
Advertisement

For instance, Bramatherium was a thick-set Asian giraffe with four, spiny skull projections that formed an erect forehead shield, making it look like some kind of fuzzy dragon. Injanatherium was an antelope-like giraffe from the Middle East with a built-in visor of bone that jutted out over its eyes. There were also the giant, vaguely elk-like sivatheres—the most massive giraffids ever—with heavy, antler-shaped ossicones (skin and hair-covered skull protuberances found in giraffids).
Fossil records of all these bizarre species are generally spotty. With a paucity of complete skulls, for example, it’s been difficult to hash out the evolutionary relationships between giraffids. The new species—described in a paper published today in the journal PLOS ONE—is providing a key piece of this puzzle.
The ancient giraffe, regally named Decennatherium rex (pronounced “de-sen-a-theer-ee-um recks”), was unearthed in the Cerro de los Batallones fossil site just outside of Madrid. The team of paleontologists responsible for D. rex’s discovery and identification—based at Spain’s National Museum of Natural History and the Catalan Institute of Paleontology—estimate that it lived about nine million years ago. The skeleton was uniquely, remarkably complete, and provided a great picture of what D. rex must have been like in life.
The giraffid had two pairs of ossicone “horns”; one short pair in front, above the eyes, and a second, long, curved, ridged pair that swept up and backwards. D. rex was tall enough to scratch its head on a basketball rim, and probably weighed in excess of a ton. With such a strapping frame, the beast would have looked less like a graceful sentinel of the Serengeti, and more like if that Toys ‘R’ Us mascot took up a serious powerlifting hobby.
By comparing D. rex’s remains with those of extinct and living giraffid species, the researchers were able to determine likely evolutionary relationships between giraffid groups. It appears as though the new Decennatherium species is the earliest known offshoot of a lineage containing the gigantic, “antlered” sivatheres, and another similar group, the samotheres—a different fork of the family tree from where giraffes and okapi reside. The four-horned layout that helps define this sivathere-samothere branch—two small in front, two big in back—may have gotten its start with D. rex.
Advertisement

This discovery and classification for Decennatherium reveals that the sivathere-samothere line is millions of years older than previously thought, and had existed as far north as Europe. Sivatheres and samotheres were ridiculously successful giraffids, ranging across much of Africa and Eurasia for what appears to be millions of years, with some of the largest and most spectacular species going extinct as recently as the close of the last Ice Age—and now we know how they got their start.
The rich prehistory of the giraffe family may be gone to us, but we can still appreciate what’s left of this proud, weird tribe of mammals. And we should do so quickly, since the okapi’s numbers have plummeted in recent decades and because  giraffes are now looking down the barrel of extinction. Preservation may be a tall order, but if these last holdouts go the way of the sivatheres and Decennatherium, it would mean the loss of the entire giraffe family.
Jake Buehler is a Seattle area science writer with an adoration for the Tree of Life’s weird, wild, and unsung—follow him on Twitter or at his blog.


Food webs might seem clear to you—grass grows in the sun, cows eat the grass, you eat the cow, you play on the computer. But it doesn’t always work that way in the animal kingdom.
Today’s word of the day is kleptopredation, a new way of eating that was recently discovered in a species of sea slug by  researchers in Europe. Kleptopredation’s existence shows that there’s more to predator-prey relationships than just predator-eats-prey, according to the paper published today in the journal Biology Letters.
Advertisement

The researchers collected the sea slugs, called nudibranchs, as well as some samples of jellyfish relatives called hydroids and plankton, from the water near Sicily. The experiment simply involved watching the nudibranchs make their eating decisions, choosing between hydroids that had just eaten plankton and those that hadn’t. The nudibranchs selected the recently fed hydroids more often at a rate highly unlikely to be random. And unlike you and cows, it turns out that around half the nudibranch diet comes directly from the plankton by eating  in this way, the researchers write.
“The strong behavioral response of the nudibranch to fed hydroid colonies in the prey choice experiment suggests that nudibranchs will, by preference, consume hydranths that have captured and are handling prey,” the researchers wrote.
This experiment is limited by the fact that it’s just a couple dozen trials performed in a lab and not necessarily how things happen in real life. And maybe the nudibranches were just opting for the plumper hydra. But the experiment’s results shouldn’t be that surprising. Mary Roach describes a similar eating habit in Inuit people in her book Gulp. Arctic dwellers rely on organ meat and even caribou stomach contents for certain nutrients in places where there are few fruits or vegetables available.
Ultimately, kleptopredation shows that food webs are complex pathways where energy and nutrients travel between plants and animals—far more complex than just big fish eats little fish.
[Biology Letters]
Update 1:00PM EST: James Newcomb, a biology professor at New England College not involved with the study, agreed that an animal relying on stealing food ingested by another organism was a cool concept. He felt the results were tantalizing but not yet convincing—there could be other explanations.
Advertisement

The hydroids have stingers they use to catch their own prey, for example. “An alternative hypothesis to explain why the predator (nudibranch) selectively chose hydroid polyps that had recently fed is because those polyps had expended their stinging cells to capture prey and thus could not use them on the nudibranch. This was never tested in the paper and could produce very similar results.”


The head of the Environmental Protection Agency announced today that the best scientists in the country won’t be able to advise the agency on environmental science.
Rumors of the announcement had been swirling for months after the EPA canned most of its science advisory board members. Scott Pruitt made it official on Tuesday by signing a directive that any members of EPA’s science advisory board can’t have accepted a grant from the agency. It’s an unprecedented move and yet another step for Pruitt in turning the EPA into an extension of the industries it’s supposed to regulate. The move stands in stark contrast to the EPA’s mission to “protect human health and the environment.”
Advertisement

“Never before in almost 40 years of functioning of Scientific Advisory Boards has it been deemed necessary to restrict individuals with EPA grants from serving,” Genna Reed, an analyst with the Union of Concerned Scientists, told Earther.
The agency awards more than $1 billion in grants a year to scientists at university and state and local governments across the country. The EPA’s analysis indicates that board members received $77 million in competitive grant money over the past three years, something many people would think indicates they are Good at Science.
In announcing the reasoning, Pruitt used scripture in a way I’m still trying to make sense of:
“In the Book of Joshua, there’s a story about Joshua leading the people into the promised land after Moses passed away. This is sort of the Joshua principle. As it relates to the grants and to this agency, you can choose to serve on the council or choose the grant but you can’t choose both.”
So who will lead us to the scientific promised land now that those EPA-funded scientists have been excluded? Aside from you and me (I’m assuming you aren’t an EPA-funded researcher and if you are, I’m sorry), a whole lot of folks who typically rely on private sources of funding (or as the directive likes to call them, people with “fresh perspectives”). In many cases, that includes the very industries the EPA is supposed to be regulating to safeguard human and environmental health.
“While industry certainly has a right to be heard on the science advisory boards, and always had a representative as far as I can remember, they should never dominate. There was nothing in my experience at the Agency that would have made me think we needed to enact this sort of makeover,” Christine Todd Whitman, the head of the EPA under George W. Bush and former New Jersey governor, told Earther. “[Senator John] Barrasso is wrong in saying what Pruitt was doing with advisory boards was good because it allowed more state input. This isn’t about geography, it should be about science. Lead isn’t better absorbed by someone in the West than the East — it’s just plain bad for you.”
If these people have their way, they’ll be leading us to a promised land of fringe science and air and water clogged with smog and toxic chemicals.
Pruitt announced that Michael Honeycutt, who heads Texas Commission on Environmental Quality’s toxicology division, will now lead the EPA’s Science Advisory Board. He is a scientist at least, so good job there. But his views are extremely outside the mainstream.
Advertisement

In 2012, Honeycutt told  the U.S. House Science Committee with a straight face that “some studies even suggest PM (particulate matter) makes you live longer.” This statement ignores the vast preponderance of evidence that shows otherwise. It might serve Honeycutt well to read up all about PM’s negative health impacts on the EPA’s page dedicated to them. Hell, you may want to read it before Honeycutt starts advising the EPA, which has already shown a penchant for deleting information that’s inconvenient.
“Michael Honeycutt is a concerning individual to lead the advisor board,” Reed said. “He’s worked closely with TERA [Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment] to recommend loosening of standards for Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.”
TERA is a group that collected 30 percent of its funds from for-profit sources last year and “has been paid by chemical companies for research and reports that frequently downplayed the health risks posed by their compounds” according to the New York Times. 
Advertisement

Equally worrying is Tony Cox, a private risk analyst, who will now head the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee. John Walke, an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council, told Earther that the committee was established by Congress to advise the EPA “when the agency establishes or revises national health standards for air pollution like smog or fine particle pollution.”
And true to form, Tony Cox denies smog has negative health impacts.  Here’s what he told Congress in 2015 about a proposed EPA ozone rule:
“There is no need to repeat the costly effort to obtain better public health by further reducing ozone levels when we already know from abundant historical experience that doing so does not work.”
Denying climate science is a bonkers proposition, but denying that smog is bad for you is seemingly unfathomable. But because it is 2017 and because Trump is president and Scott Pruitt heads the EPA, this is where we are.
Advertisement

“The Trump EPA is stacking the nation’s premiere science advisory bodies with industry reps and conservative state officials who are not nearly as expert as the purged scientists,” Walke said.
The rest of the advisory boards will be announced in the coming weeks. A list leaked to E&E News shows that the boards will include members from fossil fuel companies, a chemical trade group, and red state governments according an analysis from the New Republic.
Pruitt claims this is all in the service of “sound science” and “back to basics.” But there’s nothing sound or basic about installing people who shill for industry in positions that let them have a say about rules affecting said industry. While Trump’s other cabinet appointees have generally bumbled through their jobs, Pruitt has been uniquely aggressive in turning his agency into a rubber stamp for industry.
Advertisement

“The Trump EPA’s continued attack on science will likely be one of the most lasting and damaging legacies of this administration,” Senator Tom Udall (D-NM), said in a statement following the decision.
This post has been updated to include comments from Christine Todd Whitman.


Recent scientific progress has allowed us to begin decoding the significance of many different patterns of activity in the brain. Researchers have begun to understand patterns associated with disorders such as depression, in hopes of correcting it. Other research has zeroed in on how language and speech is signaled in the brain. In one often-cited experiment, researchers were even able to convert the MRI readouts of the test subjects’ brains into approximate renditions of the movie clips shown to participants.
Now new research seeks to use artificial intelligence to identify people suffering from suicidal thoughts based on brain scans alone.
Advertisement

In a paper published this week in Nature Human Behavior, researchers from Carnegie Mellon University looked at 34 participants, half of whom were experiencing suicidal thoughts. Study participants all underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), during which they were shown words related to suicide, such as “death” and “distressed,” as well as words related to positive and negative emotions. Based on the participants that had already been identified as suicidal, they were able to identify five regions of the brain and six words that helped to identify those that were suicidal. Based on that information, they were then able to train an algorithm to identify suicidal patients. Of the 34 participants, the algorithm correctly identified 15 of the 17 suicidal patients and 16 of 17 member of the control group.
In a second experiment, researchers also divided participants with suicidal thoughts into two groups: One group that had attempted suicide, and one that had not. A separate algorithm was also able to correctly categorize 16 of those 17 patients.
Why is this important? For one, it gives us insight into how the brains of healthy people and suicidal people differ. In suicidal patients, for example, the word “death” triggered a reaction in the region of the brain associated with shame.
It also may one day provide an additional tool to help diagnose and treat mental health disorders. Psychiatric illnesses are complicated, and often not all that well understood in terms of where they exist in the brain. That’s why, for example, the symptoms for disorders like depression often seem vague. A diagnosis of major depressive disorder requires a person to exhibit five of nine symptoms, but two people could wind up with the same diagnosis and have almost no symptoms in common. Understanding where in the brain those problems are occurring could one day lead to more effective means of treating them.
[Nature Human Behavior]


Using an innovative new telescope array, an international team of researchers has discovered a distant gas giant roughly the size of Jupiter around a star half the size of ours. It’s considered the largest planet in proportion to its companion star.
New research published in Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society challenges prevailing theories about planet formation and how big planets can get in systems containing small stars, such as red dwarfs. The discovery of NGTS-1b by Daniel Bayliss and Peter Wheatley from the University of Warwick’s Astronomy and Astrophysics Group represents only the third gas giant found to transit an M-dwarf star, and the largest planet in comparison to its host star. The previous biggest planets in proportion to their companion stars were Kepler-45b and HATS-6b, but this new planet is considerably larger and heavier.
Advertisement

Bayliss and Wheatley spotted the hot Jupiter using the Next-Generation Transit Survey (NGTS) instrument, a wide-field observing facility composed of several telescopes at the European Southern Observatory’s Paranal Observatory in Northern Chile. This state-of-the-art facility is operated by the Universities of Warwick, Leicester, Cambridge, Queen’s University Belfast, Observatoire de Genève, DLR Berlin, and Universidad de Chile.
“The discovery of NGTS-1b was a complete surprise to us—such massive planets were not thought to exist around such small stars,” said Bayliss in a statement. “This is the first exoplanet we have found with our new NGTS facility and we are already challenging the received wisdom of how planets form. Our challenge is to now find out how common these types of planets are in the Galaxy.”
To make the discovery, the astronomers monitored patches of night sky over several months, detecting red light from a star using special red-sensitive cameras. This M-dwarf star, NGTS-1, experiences brief and periodic dips in brightness every 2.6 days, suggesting the presence of an orbiting planet. The degree of dimming, plus measurements of the star’s “wobble” confirmed both the presence and size of the large gas giant.
Located 600 light-years away, gas giant NGTS-1b has about 20 percent less mass than Jupiter, but its companion star features a radius and mass half that of our Sun. The exoplanet—a so-called hot Jupiter— is located just 4.5 million kilometers from its host, which is a mere three percent the distance Earth is from the Sun. A year on this planet lasts just 2.5 Earth days, and the temperature is a whopping 530 degrees Celsius, or 800 kelvin.
Prior to this discovery astronomers didn’t think that a star of this diminutive size could produce a planet so large. Scientists figured that small stars are able to churn out rocky planets, but that dwarf star systems didn’t possess enough overall material to form Jupiter-sized planets. This latest discovery means pre-existing theories are flawed, and that more science needs to be done.
Advertisement

“NGTS-1b was difficult to find, despite being a monster of a planet, because its parent star is small and faint. Small stars are actually the most common in the universe, so it is possible that there are many of these giant planets waiting to [be] found,” said Wheatley. “Having worked for almost a decade to develop the NGTS telescope array, it is thrilling to see it picking out new and unexpected types of planets. I’m looking forward to seeing what other kinds of exciting new planets we can turn up.”
In terms of a theory, the researchers speculate that NGTS-1, during its formative stages, featured an unusually thick protoplanetary disk. How and why this should be the case remains a mystery. Moving forward, it would be a good idea for researchers to create computer models showing how planets might form in such systems, while continuing the search for similar systems.
[Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society]


As many as 200 workers were killed after a tunnel collapsed at North Korea’s underground nuclear test site, according to unconfirmed reports by Japanese broadcaster TV Asahi. The accident is presumed to have happened in early September following the country’s most recent test of a hydrogen bomb, which may have compromised the geological strength of the mountain.
According to the report, the tunnel collapsed at North Korea’s Punggye-ri nuclear test site sometime around September 10th, which is about a week after the September 3rd test of a hydrogen bomb—the most powerful nuclear explosion ever achieved by the country. TV Asahi said it received the tip from unnamed North Korean sources who are familiar with the situation, and that the incident happened during construction of an underground tunnel at the nuclear test site in northeast North Korea.
Advertisement

Around a hundred workers were killed during an initial collapse, but many others were killed during the rescue attempt during a second collapse, “raising the possibility that more than 200 people died together,” stated the broadcaster.
The incident is still unconfirmed, but experts say the ground may have been loosened following the most recent nuclear test in early September. At the time, South Korea’s Meteorological Agency said there “seems to be a cavity of 60 meters to 100 meters [200 to 330 feet] under the mountain where there is a nuclear test site,” warning that radioactive substances might start to leak out if more tests are conducted within Mount Mantap, a 7,200-foot high-peak.
This news comes less than two weeks after a Washington Post report claimed that North Korea’s underground nuclear tests are so big they’ve “altered the geological structure of the land” and that it’s suffering from “tired mountain syndrome.”
“What we are seeing from North Korea looks like some kind of stress in the ground,” Columbia University seismologist Paul G. Richards told WaPo. “In that part of the world, there were stresses in the ground, but the explosions have shaken them up.”
Chinese scientists also chimed in, warning that further nuclear tests could cause the mountain to collapse and release radiation caused by the tests.
We’ll update this post as we learn more.
[Reuters, TV Asahi]


The way we exercise and who we choose to do it with is a very personal thing, but new research suggests that working out in a group setting has its advantages, resulting in significant improvements to physical, mental, and emotional measures. Those who workout alone, by contrast, experience virtually no changes in stress levels or perceived levels of fitness, at least those in the study—even though they tend to put in more effort.
New research published in The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association shows that working out in a group setting lowers stress by 26 percent (on average) compared to those who exercise by themselves. Those who prefer solo exercise sessions tend to workout for longer, experience no significant changes in stress levels, and limited improvements to quality of life. The new research, led by Dayna Yorks from the University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine, was limited to medical students, but the findings may hold implications for the general population as well.
Advertisement

Importantly, this study doesn’t tell us whether we get fitter or stronger when working out as an individual versus a group, but it does suggest that group settings are better when it comes to the psychological and emotional aspects of working out (an understated benefit of exercise). That said, exercising in a group makes people feel better about their physical well being, which can be tremendously motivating.
“The communal benefits of coming together with friends and colleagues, and doing something difficult, while encouraging one another, pays dividends beyond exercising alone,” said Yorks in a statement. “The findings support the concept of a mental, physical and emotional approach to health that is necessary for student doctors and physicians.”
For the study, Yorks and her colleagues recruited 69 medical students—a group known for high levels of stress and self-reported low quality of life. The students were asked to join either a 12-week exercise program, which they would complete in either a group setting or as individuals. Those who chose to work out in a group were enrolled in a CXWORX program (core strength and functional fitness training), which required them to workout for 30 minutes at least once a week. Those who chose individual workouts were allowed to participate in any exercise regimen of their choosing, such as running or weight lifting, but they had to exercise alone or with no more than two partners.
So this sample pool, in addition to being quite small, was not random; they were all med students and they were all given the choice of working out alone or doing it in groups (rather than being assigned).  And in fact, this did result in some selection effects. The students who enrolled themselves into the group setting had lower baseline emotional ratings compared to the other two groups (the individual, and control group which involved no exercise). “It is possible that those who self-selected into the fitness class group were looking for a means of improving their emotional [quality of life],” wrote the researchers in their study.
The students were asked to complete a survey every four weeks, in which they rated their levels of perceived stress and quality of life across three categories: mental, physical, and emotional. After 12 weeks, the mean monthly survey scores displayed improvements across all domains for the students who chose to work out in a group setting. Specifically, they reported a 12.6 percent increase in mental health, a 24.8 percent increase in physical health, and a 26 percent increase in emotional health. They also reported a 26.2 percent reduction in their perceived level of stress. As for the individual exercisers, they tended to work out twice as long as the other group, but saw no significant changes, except in mental quality of life, which saw an 11 percent increase.
“In terms of the study, I have no issues with it,” Andreas Bergdahl, an Associate Professor in Cardiovascular Physiology at Concordia University who wasn’t involved in the new study, told Gizmodo. “It is not particularly novel as these types of studies have been done over and over again. It has a fairly small sample size but I do like the fact that they looked at both men and women (often these are ‘mixed’ which hides potential gender differences). So all in all, a nice, small study which does not report anything new but rather confirms what has been seen in other publications.”
Advertisement

That “confirmation,” says Bergdahl, is that group workouts motivate us, give us confidence, holds us accountable, and makes the most of our time while working out. It also affords us the chance to have some fun and make some friends.
“As such group exercise is a good match for people who are outgoing or looking to meet new people, who benefit from structure, who find solo exercise boring or who have difficulty maintaining motivation by themselves,” he said. “In fact, peer support can be a great motivator, and can almost feel like group therapy.”
Bergdahl says there are physiological explanations behind this phenomenon. For example, group exercise unleashes a flood of chemicals in the brain, triggering the same responses seen in collective activities like dancing, laughter and religion.
Advertisement

“These chemicals, called endorphins are produced by virtually any vigorous physical activity, but group exercise classes appear to enhance the effect dramatically,” he said. “Related is the rise in pain threshold that has been measured in rowers exercising together vs alone. The lack of pain sensation, naturally means that the athlete can ‘push themselves’ to higher intensities, consequently enhancing the benefits of training. The release of endorphins actually means that for some (but not all) people, finding workout buddies could help turn fitness into a pleasant addiction (as you can get ‘hooked’ to the endorphins).”
Again, this study was limited to med students, and the point of the study was to see if group or individual exercise was better for the emotional well being of this particular group. But as Bergdahl points out, these findings may be applicable to anyone with extra stress and anxiety in their lives.
As a final note, the researchers are not saying that people who exercise alone are wasting their time.
Advertisement

“These findings should not be interpreted as a condemnation of individual exercise,” they write in the study. “We believe much benefit can be derived from physical exercise of any kind, but the addition of group fitness classes in a medical student population may have additional benefits. Engaging in social fitness activities could be a solution to improving the well-being of medical students and physicians.”
[The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association]


What happens when a precancerous growth turns from a benign cluster of abnormal cells to a full-blown disease? Researchers are turning to genome sequencing in an effort to find out.
This month, the National Cancer Institute funded a three-year pilot project that aims to develop a “pre-cancer genome atlas” for lung, breast, prostate and pancreatic cancer. Researchers will sequence the DNA from precancerous growths, along with RNA from individual tumor cells. The idea is to provide snapshots of the same tumor over time, hopefully identifying the tipping point at which its cells become cancerous. The results of the work could one day help researchers know which tumors to treat, and how.
Advertisement

The NCI project, which is part of the National Cancer Moonshot Initiative, is not the first research to home-in on this stage in the development of cancer. Last week, three non-profits—Stand Up To Cancer, the American Lung Association, and LUNGevity—announced a new four-year, $5 million effort to sequence the DNA from precancerous growths in the body’s airway, tracking changes in them over time. The project hopes to come up with new diagnostic tools to identify whether  lung abnormalities found on chest imaging are cancerous as early as possible.
At this point, little is still known about what happens in the early stages of a disease that pushes a growth over the edge to become cancer. At the same time, advancements in DNA sequencing mean that with tiny tissue samples taken from patients, researchers may gain useful data that can shed light on those early stages of disease. And the earlier cancer is identified, the more hope there is that doctors may be able to treat it.
[Nature]


In space, it has been said, no one can hear you scream. That may very well be the case, but that doesn’t mean space isn’t filled with an abundance of strange sounds in the form of radio bursts, electromagnetic pulses, solar wind, charged particle bursts, and other celestial emissions. We can’t hear these sounds in their raw form, so NASA has converted them into an audible format suitable for our ears—and the results are unsettling.

There are over 20 different space sounds featured in NASA’s new playlist, including Jovian magnetic burps, plasma waves, and interstellar light curves. These weird blips, screeches, and swoops are sure to make your hair stand on end.

NASA has provided explanations for some of these sounds:
Juno Captures the ‘Roar’ of Jupiter: NASA’s Juno spacecraft has crossed the boundary of Jupiter’s immense magnetic field. Juno’s Waves instrument recorded the encounter with the bow shock over the course of about two hours on June 24, 2016.
Plasma Waves: Plasma waves, like the roaring ocean surf, create a rhythmic cacophony that — with the EMFISIS instrument aboard NASA’s Van Allen Probes — we can hear across space.
Saturn’s Radio Emissions: Saturn is a source of intense radio emissions, which were monitored by the Cassini spacecraft. The radio waves are closely related to the auroras near the poles of the planet. These auroras are similar to Earth’s northern and southern lights. More of Saturn’s eerie-sounding radio emissions.
Sounds of Jupiter: Scientists sometimes translate radio signals into sound to better understand the signals. This approach is called “data sonification”. On June 27, 1996, the Galileo spacecraft made the first flyby of Jupiter’s largest moon, Ganymede, and this audio track represents data from Galileo’s Plasma Wave Experiment instrument.
Sounds of a Comet Encounter: During its Feb. 14, 2011, flyby of comet Tempel 1, an instrument on the protective shield on NASA’s Stardust spacecraft was pelted by dust particles and small rocks, as can be heard in this audio track.
Be sure to have this playlist handy when trick-or-treaters pay you a visit this coming Halloween.
[NASA]



For three consecutive nights, droves of octopuses have been seen walking out of the sea and stranding themselves along several beaches in Wales. Experts say the unusual behavior may have something to do with recent storms that swept through the region.
One by one they came ashore, stranding themselves along beaches in Cardigan Bay. It happened again the following day, and then yet again for a third straight night.
Advertisement

“It was a bit like an end of days scenario,” Brett Stone, who runs a dolphin tour in the region, explained to the BBC. “There were probably about 20 or 25 on the beach. I have never seen them out of the water like that.”
This species of curled octopus, which can grow up to 20 inches (50 cm) in length, don’t usually make it a habit of coming on land, instead preferring waters up to 325 feet (100 meters) deep. Their numbers have gone up recently due to declining cod populations, but they’re still vulnerable to dolphins.
Many of the octopuses were found in the intertidal zone, the area of the beach where the tide comes in and out. Speaking to The Telegraph, National Marine Aquarium curator James Wright said this behavior is “not common” and that there’s “something wrong with them.”

Because the area was hit by two recent storm systems—the remnants of Ophelia and Brian—Wright suspects a link. “It could simply be injuries sustained by the rough weather itself or there could be a sensitivity to a change in atmospheric pressure,” he told The Telegraph.
Stones says it’s also possible that they’re getting confused by the bright lights in New Quay harbour, or that they’re simply dying off now that summer has come to an end. Still, it’s weird that they’ve only started to do this now.
“We have got lobster pots and sometimes octopus will strip the bait, but they are very sneaky,” Stones told the BBC. “It is really rare to see them.”
Stones and several other beachgoers tried to collect some of the washed-up octopuses and return them to the sea, but many of them were found dead. Hopefully the octopuses will get re-oriented soon and put a stop to their invasion of Welsh beaches.
[Telegraph, BBC]


Last year’s powerful El Niño left meteorologists expecting a major surge in atmospheric carbon dioxide emissions. A World Meteorological Organization report released on Monday confirms these projections, showing that CO2 concentrations “surged at a record-breaking speed in 2016 to the highest level in 800,000 years.”

A combination of human activities and El Niño—which led to a string of droughts in tropical regions that limited the sequestration of CO2 by plants—caused average CO2 concentrations to rise at a record pace of 3.3 parts per million. Concentrations rose to 403.3 ppm in 2016, up from 400 ppm in 2015. CO2 levels are now 145% above pre-industrial  levels, which were about 280 ppm.
Earth’s tropical forests hoard huge amounts of carbon, but as temperatures rise and weather…
In announcing the results of the UN weather agency’s annual Greenhouse Gas Bulletin, WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas warned that without rapid cuts to CO2 and other greenhouse gas  emissions, temperature increases by the end of the century may be well above the 2 degree Celsius target set by the Paris Agreement on climate change.
Advertisement

“The laws of physics mean that we face a  much hotter, more extreme climate in the future,” he said. “There is currently no  magic wand to remove this CO2 from the atmosphere.”
According to the report, the rate of increase of atmospheric CO2 over the past  70 years is nearly 100 times larger than that at the end of the last ice  age.
“As far as direct and proxy observations can tell, such abrupt  changes in the atmospheric levels of CO2 have never before been seen,” the authors write.
Last year was also the warmest year on record since at least 1880, when modern record keeping began.
The report—along with a separate “Emissions Gas Report” from UN Environment that tracks country greenhouse gas commitments—arrive on the eve of the latest UN climate change negotiations, which will be held from November 7-17 in Bonn, Germany. Together, the reports aim to outline how the gap between current emissions levels and emissions targets can be bridged.
Advertisement

“The numbers don’t lie. We are still emitting far too much and this  needs to be reversed,” said Erik Solheim, head of  UN Environment, in a statement. “The last few years have seen enormous uptake of  renewable energy, but we must now redouble our efforts to ensure these  new low-carbon technologies are able to thrive. We have many of the  solutions already to address this challenge. What we need now is global  political will and a new sense of urgency.”
The Trump administration has dramatically diminished the US’s sense of urgency surrounding climate change, with Trump even pledging to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Despite all this, the US will still play a large role at the upcoming climate talks as no nation can formally withdraw from the agreement before 2020. Many nations still harbor the belief that the US can be convinced to stay in the agreement after all.



Medicine is perfect for heartwarming stories. Some close relative is facing the most hopeless prognosis, such as being in a vegetative state. Someone tries a wild treatment, and boom, people are crying, the relative is awake, and the headlines go viral. But science doesn’t really work this way.
A man recently “woke” from a vegetative state, crying again after “regaining consciousness,” creating a flurry of news coverage. Yet as exciting as this sounds, the case came with plenty of caveats. Many headlines rightly imply that the man was only minimally conscious, not much better than a vegetative state. He also died before the scientists published their paper. The truth is that you shouldn’t raise your hopes too high after single case studies.
Advertisement

As we wrote last month, a team of French scientists shot some electricity into the longest nerve (the vagus nerve) in the man’s brain for a month. They reported in their paper that the man moved from a vegetative to a minimally conscious state, going from a five to a 10 on the 23-point Coma Recovery Scale. That’s still a low score, though. New Scientist reported that the patient’s eyes widened when the researchers moved in close and he seemed to cry. He couldn’t say his name or demonstrate that he knew where he was. Also, his score was 10 for only a few days, after which it dropped down to a 6-8.
Stories like these always seem hopeful—signs of improvement can imply continued improvement. The Guardian later reported that the patient died after the study was over but before it was published, even though the study’s lead author withheld the fact and even implied that the patient was still alive.
It’s great to feel optimistic about this kind of progress if you’re hoping to one day see patients awake from many-year comas. But this work was based on a single case study published in Current Biology. That’s not how science works. What if it was a fluke, or the patient woke up on their own, or something else the scientists did actually caused the patient’s eyes to open? As blogger Neuroskeptic pointed out to me in an email, “The raters are also not mentioned as being blinded i.e. I think they knew all about the vagus stimulation. This raises the possibility of observer bias.”
That’s the point of blinded clinical trials. While they can be difficult to do and costly, trying a treatment on many people can at least confer some level of confidence that it will work, set realistic expectations, and isn’t based on the observers thinking it works because they want it to work.
Single cases like these are important and exciting. But we shouldn’t let the mask of a good story oversell what really happened. In this case, a man in a vegetative state began moving his eyes, and then died.


Computer scientists have developed an artificially intelligent system that’s an improvement over existing techniques used to crack CAPTCHAs, those super-annoying prompts that check to see whether you’re a human or a bot. For security experts, it means that existing CAPTCHA-based systems may soon be obsolete—if they aren’t already.
AI developers have been trying to defeat CAPTCHAs for years, but these systems require a lot of digital horsepower to do so. Challenge-response tests that present jumbled and distorted characters in various fonts and configurations are super-tough for machines, but not so tough for humans. We don’t have a problem picking out the letters, inferring characters from warped shapes, or telling two overlapping letters apart. Our highly adaptable brains allow us to do this and AIs, for the most part, are narrow systems that can’t think very well outside of the box
Advertisement

That’s why Dileep George, co-founder of Vicarious, has incorporated insights from neuroscience to “train” a computer to generalize beyond what it’s primarily taught. His new system, called the Recursive Cortical Network (RCN), is apparently able to parse the CAPTCHA test more effectively than previous models, and with less training. This means that answer-response systems can now be cracked with greater efficiency, leaving sites increasingly vulnerable to bots. The new research was published yesterday in Science.
Most CAPTCHA-defeating systems are trained on literally millions of pre-labeled CAPTCHA image examples, or they’ve been equipped with specific rules about how to discern each type of image. But like the human brain, the new system can apparently learn and generalize using just a few examples. George says RCN is 300 times more data-efficient than previous techniques, and it works by making assumptions about the visual world. As George explains in NPR:
During the training phase, it builds internal models of the letters that it is exposed to. So if you expose it to As and Bs and different characters, it will build its own internal model of what those characters are supposed to look like. So it would say, these are the contours of the letter, this is the interior of the letter, this is the background, etc. And then, when a new image comes in ... it tries to explain that new image, trying to explain all the pixels of that new image in terms of the characters it has seen before. So it will say, this portion of the A is missing because it is behind this B.
CAPTCHA systems vary greatly around the internet, but RCN proved to be highly adaptable, solving reCAPTCHAs and BotDetect about two-thirds of the time, and Yahoo And PayPal CAPTCHAs roughly 57 percent of the time. It’s not perfect, but it’s a step in the right direction. And by right direction, the researchers are referring to systems that can visually reason like humans. Ultimately, the researchers are working towards generalized AI that functions similarly to the human brain.
“This has been a long time coming,” Marc Goodman, author of Future Crimes: Everything Is Connected, Everyone Is Vulnerable and What We Can Do About It,” told Gizmodo. “CAPTCHAs depend on human vision being better than computer vision. Unfortunately that’s changing rapidly and computer vision is getting as good—and will soon be potentially better—than human vision. When that happens, all image-related authentication systems will come under threat as artificial intelligence-based computer vision systems will be able to solve the same exact puzzles that people can.”
For some sites, this means CAPTCHA-based security systems will become obsolete. One solution is to make CAPTCHAs more visually difficult, but that’ll just make it more difficult for humans, who will start to get frustrated, and gradually find themselves unable to pass the majority of CAPTCHAs.  Another option is to devise entirely new authentication systems. And in fact, Google has already killed the CAPTCHA.
“Ultimately, system authentication will be based more upon biometrics, and in particular, behavior metrics, which track and measure things about you and your behaviors to authenticate you,” said Goodman. “For example, the accelerometer within your phone nowadays is being used by many financial apps to uniquely fingerprint how you hold your phone when you enter your password. We all do that uniquely, and that is a type of digital fingerprint that can help authenticate you on websites and apps. We will see much much more of that in the future.”
Advertisement

One thing’s certain, an arms race is currently underway in which humans are finding it increasingly difficult to prove they’re the real deal. It’s frightening to imagine, but the day may arrive when it’ll be practically impossible for a human to prove their human-ness over the internet.
[Science]


On the surface, it makes sense. Healthy people generally cost insurers less, so why not encourage policyholders to live healthfully by doling out perks and discounts, and then track them to make sure they’re sticking to their end of the bargain? This was the logic that spurred one the nation’s largest life insurance providers, John Hancock,  to offer massively discounted Apple Watches to customers. But there’s a major hitch: by tracking all that data, policy holders may be giving away a lot more than they realize.
John Hancock first rolled out its Apple Watch promotion in 2016, as part of the Vitality program, which is designed to offer perks to policyholders who live healthy lifestyles. Through the program, participants could buy a $350 Apple Watch for just $25, and earn an almost-free watch along with insurance discounts by meeting exercise goals over a two year period. On Monday, the company announced that it was expanding the program availability to all participants of the Vitality program. The program, the company said, had been a tremendous success, with about half of policyholders meeting monthly activity goals.
Advertisement

The thing is, even health data like how many steps you’ve taken can be pretty sensitive, revealing information.
“Once that data is in their hands you cannot control how they are going to use it,” Pam Dixon, executive director of the World Privacy Forum, told Gizmodo.
In the past few years, we have already begun to see examples of the surprising ways in which such data can be used. In a 2014 case, a Canadian law firm used Fitbit history to prove a client’s personal injury claim. The next year, data from a Fitbit was used to undermine a woman’s rape claim. In February, a man’s pacemaker put him in prison for arson.
And in an email to Gizmodo, John Hancock clarified that its access to information about those participating in the program is expansive.
“The Vitality Group has set up direct integration with Apple Watch through the Health app,” the company said. “After the member gives his/her permission to share data from the Health app, recorded data (steps, active energy and weight) from the Apple Watch regularly syncs to the John Hancock Vitality app, enabling policyholders to earn Vitality points for their activities.”
In other words, John Hancock is constantly mining your Apple Watch data for information about your health.
John Hancock is not the only company to integrate such tracking with insurance pricing. Health insurers including UnitedHealthcare offer perks for meeting goals while wearing fitness trackers, as do some workplace wellness programs offered by individual employers.
Advertisement

The problem here is two fold. First, is the issue of how such tracking directly affects a person’s coverage. The second, is other ways that data might be used.
John Hancock’s program offers participants the ability to save up to 15 percent on their premium. But those who don’t meet fitness goals may wind up having to retroactively pay for their watch on top of not receiving discounts, which critics have noted is unfairly biased against people who may not have lifestyles that allow them to make it to the gym, like low-income people working multiple jobs.
There is also the question of whether that information could be used to either raise premiums or deny coverage.
Advertisement

“Can you imagine if after the holidays you get a reminder from you life insurer saying, like, ‘You’ve gained seven pounds over the holidays, your premium is going up,” said Dixon. “It’s like behavioral control.”
The Affordable Care Act bars insurers from denying coverage to customers with preexisting medical conditions, but if that rule is ever successfully lifted by Congressional Republicans, insurers could turn to wearable data  for evidence to deny health care or raise rates.
And the ACA does not offer the same protections for other forms of insurance, like life insurance. Auto insurers, for example, are already relying on similar methods to determine coverage rates, by asking customers  to install devices in their cars and setting rates based on driving behavior.
Advertisement

John Hancock said that it never uses data from Vitality to underwrite insurance policies, but there isn’t much besides that promise that prevents it from doing so. It’s easy to imagine our health data becoming a point system akin to, say, a credit score, used to rate us and determine how much we will pay for a variety of things.
“You’ve got someone looking over your shoulder all the time,” said Dixon. “I don’t know if that’s something we want as a culture. How much do we care about saving a dollar and what are we giving up for that dollar?”
Perhaps the bigger issue though, is the lack of information about who else besides John Hancock might see your data and other ways it might be used.
Advertisement

The company told Gizmodo that it does not sell health data to anyone. But it also said that it does share personal health data  with third parties “who perform services on our behalf” like NutriSavings, an independent program that encourages healthy eating through which policyholders can qualify for a HealthyFood benefit.
“They are required to have information protection safeguards in place,” said John Hancock. “We are contractually bound to only use the information to perform those services and are not permitted to use the information for marketing purposes.”
But John Hancock is a big, old company, which also includes an investment arm and retirement plan services. And in 2004, it was bought by a Canadian insurance firm, Manulife Financial. There’s nothing in its statements or the law that prevents the company from sharing information with other companies under its umbrella, or with future companies that might become part of the network, said Lee Tien, a lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation. Unlike health data your doctor gets, information John Hancock collects from an Apple Watch is not protected under HIPAA.
Advertisement

“Americans generally believe in some way that their medical or health information is treated in some ways than other information,” said Tien. “But Apple is not your doctor and whoever you send your information to is not your doctor.”
And while the company does allow users to revoke permission at anytime, it’s unclear whether John Hancock might still hang on to certain insights gleaned from the data it has already collected.
Advertisement

Google, Apple, and other companies are investing heavily in health tracking technology, hoping that devices like the Apple Watch will allow us to track data  and easily share it with people like doctors. In September, the FDA announced that Apple, Fitbit, Google, and others would all join a pilot program designed to speed the development of such technology.
The biggest problem, both Tien and Dixon said, is that it’s hard to anticipate how valuable this information might be in the future, and how it might be used then.
“In the next 20 years we just don’t know what technology is going to bring to us, but I would guess we are going to have some very surprising things related to biometrics,” said Dixon. “I am cautious about handing over this type of data without very robust rules.”
Advertisement

An extensive report published last year by the Center for Digital Democracy and American University concluded that there are almost no privacy safeguards in place for consumer health data, and that there are plenty of industries ready  to mine that data for profit. Combined with other consumer data easily available for purchase from data brokers, health information could be used to paint a startlingly detailed portrait of individuals.
“Biosensors will routinely be able to capture not only an individual’s heart rate, body temperature, and movement, but also brain activity, moods, and emotions,” the report read. “These data can, in turn, be combined with personal information from other sources—including health-care providers and drug companies—raising such potential harms as discriminatory profiling, manipulative marketing, and security breaches.”
Of course, plenty of people do benefit from tracking their activity via Fitbits and Apple Watches. It can be helpful to have something remind you that you’ve spent your whole day on the couch. But if you’re looking to cash in on the health benefits of wearables, it might be better to just buy one yourself. In the end, it might wind up costing a whole lot less.
Advertisement

Update: This story has been updated to accurately reflect when the Apple Watch program rolled out.


In the first study of its kind, researchers from the Stanford University School of Medicine have shown that people who use pot have sex about 20 percent more often than those who do not. It’s an eye-opening finding, but a classic case where correlation doesn’t necessarily imply causation.
A positive association between the frequency of sex and marijuana use has been reported in the latest edition of The Journal of Sexual Medicine. To get to this conclusion, the Stanford University researchers who wrote the study, Andrew Sun and Michael L. Eisenberg, surveyed more than 50,000 Americans between the ages of 25 and 45. Concerns that pot use might somehow be curbing our sexual desire and performance are likely overstated, argue the researchers, who at the same time caution that, “It doesn’t say if you smoke more marijuana, you’ll have more sex.” Indeed, correlation is not causation, and this study doesn’t show that pot is responsible for the apparent licentiousness of marijuana users.
Advertisement

This is a timely study given the current popularity of the drug and its decriminalization in certain jurisdictions. The National Institute on Drug Abuse claims that 20 million adult Americans use pot, and the number is rising. At this stage, however, its role in sex is a bit vague, with evidence pointing in both directions. Some research suggests that heavy use results in erectile dysfunction and reduced sperm counts, while other research suggests marijuana stimulates activity in brain regions responsible for sexual arousal and activity. This new study is an attempt to learn a bit more about the potential connections between sex and pot.
Before we get into the nuts-and-bolts of this study and its conclusions, it’s important to understand where the data came from. The researchers pulled data from the CDC’s National Survey of Family Growth. This survey asks Americans about their family structures, sexual practices, child rearing, and drug habits. On those last two points, Americans were specifically asked how many times they had sex with a member of the opposite sex in the past four weeks, and how much pot they smoked/ingested over the past year. The survey works in four-year cycles and offers data from 2002 to 2015.
So right off the bat we’ve got a couple of problems. First of all, the researchers pulled data from a heteronormative survey, which means their study is also heteronormative. It’s possible (and probable) that people not included in the study have similar tendencies, but this survey (unfortunately) can’t tell us that. Secondly, the survey relied on self-reported data, which can be notoriously unreliable. For example, pot users may think they’re having more sex than they’re actually having or reporting, or that they’re smoking less (or more) than what they’re reporting.
Those concerns notwithstanding, the researchers found some rather compelling associations. In the analysis, 14.5 percent of women and 23.5 percent of men reported having used marijuana to varying degrees over the past year. When comparing these pot users to abstainers, the researchers uncovered a positive correlation between the frequency of marijuana use and the frequency of sexual intercourse. In fact, the more pot that a person uses, the more sex they claimed to have (i.e. a dose-dependent relationship appears to exist between pot and sexual frequency).
“Frequent marijuana use doesn’t seem to impair sexual motivation or performance,” said Eisenberg. “If anything, it’s associated with increased coital frequency.” (Hmmm, suddenly wondering if a negative correlation exists between people who use the term “increased coital frequency.”)
Sun and Eisenberg’s claim that marijuana doesn’t impair sexual performance is actually without warrant—they can’t know that from the data. They’re equating sexual frequency with performance, which isn’t fair. For all we know, the sex sucked when users were high—particularly if they were really high.
Advertisement

“The overall trend we saw applied to people of both sexes and all races, ages, education levels, income groups and religions, every health status, whether they were married or single and whether or not they had kids,” added Eisenberg.
Importantly, this trend also held true for respondents who used other drugs, such as alcohol or cocaine. Sun and Eisenberg interpret this to meaning that the increased sex isn’t simply a sign that these folks are less-inhibited (i.e. that pot users are more open to trying things out, like increased sex and hard drugs). That may very well be the case, but more research should be done to be absolutely sure (e.g. a study on personality types as it relates to drug use, sexual proclivities, etc.).
Diving deeper into the study, women who didn’t use pot in the past year had sex, on average, six times during the past four weeks, while women who smoked pot daily had sex 7.1 times during the same period. For men, it was 5.6 for nonusers, and 6.9 for daily users. That means pot users are having about 20 percent more sex than abstainers. Which, whoa.
Advertisement

This study would seem to suggest that marijuana is a good way to foster sexual activity among couples who are struggling in this area; but as noted, pot potentially produces undesirable physiological effects that may be counterproductive (i.e. erectile issues, low sperm count, poor performance, etc.). And as noted, this study doesn’t actually prove that pot is the “active ingredient” that increases sexual desire (but the researchers say the results “hint at it”). Lastly, this study also doesn’t mean that if you don’t smoke pot that your sex life is somehow diminished or compromised. Definitely not.
Sun and Eisenberg say this is the first study to examine the relationship between marijuana use and frequency of sexual intercourse among Americans. That means we still have lots to learn about the relationship between the two, and that we shouldn’t get too excited (or upset) about what is, admittedly, very preliminary research in this area.
[The Journal of Sexual Medicine]


New research shows that the British Museum’s most famous artifact—the Portland Vase—was manufactured by a different technique than the one traditionally assumed by historians and archaeologists.
For centuries, experts in antiquities have said that the Portland Vase, along with other Roman cameo glass artifacts, were manufactured by the ancient Romans using a blown glass technique. Australian National University scientist and expert glassmaker Richard Whiteley is now challenging this longheld assumption, arguing that many cameo glass pieces were built with a cold-processing technique now known as “pate de verre.”
For those who are into this stuff, that’s a bit of a shock. Roman cameo glass from this era, in addition to being extremely rare (only 15 other Roman cameo glass vases and plaques are known to exist), has been hugely influential. The Portland Vase (crafted sometime between 30 BC to 50 AD) is probably the best known piece of Roman cameo glass, inspiring many glass artisans and manufacturers from the early 18th century to the present day. These ornate glass pieces included vases, large wall plaques, and small jewelry items. Historians and archaeologists suspected that the cameo glass was made by a process requiring blown glass, but Whiteley says he’s uncovered evidence showing this isn’t the case.
Advertisement

“It’s not about proving people wrong,” said Whiteley in a statement. “It’s about correcting the historical record and reviving and restoring a technique lost for over 2,000 years.”
He came to this conclusion after examining some Roman cameo glass from the ANU Classics department with a computed tomography scanner. This allowed him to see, for the first time, the shape, direction, and composition of air bubbles trapped between the blue and white layers of Roman glass.
“I remember the moment I saw it, I said: Oh my god, this is extraordinary, because I also saw cold working marks in the surface which were inconsistent with the assumption that it was blown,” Whiteley said. “I carve and shape glass with my hands, and have done for decades. The marks I saw were inconsistent with what I see in my work.”
Specifically, Whiteley’s team saw a bubble configuration with the glass that’s produced by a pressing and turning motion. He theorizes that cold granulated glass was packed into a mould, and then a blob of molten blue glass was introduced and pressed against the mould, heating the white granules from behind.
“You just would not get a bubble that size and flat-shaped from blowing,” he said. “The most striking thing about it, is not its size and its flatness, but we found a section where the blue glass has mixed with the granulated white specks of glass.”
Advertisement

Whiteley admits he’s not the first person to make this claim. Back in the 1990s, German artist Rosemarie Lierke reached a similar conclusion, but her writings weren’t accepted on account of lack of evidence. Whiteley will present his new evidence at a historical glassworks conference at the British Museum next week, and his supporting paper has yet to appear in a peer-review journal. Until then, we’ll have to temper our expectations about this finding.
Whiteley hopes his new theory will attract enough attention and funding for a research team to recreate the Portland Vase using the pate de verre method. In his opinion, that would settle the debate once and for all.
We reached out to several experts to get their opinions on this research, and will update this post should we hear back.
[Australian National University]


On Thursday, President Trump will announce a major move in the battle against America’s opioid crisis: He will direct that the Department of Health and Human Services declare the opioid crisis a public health emergency.
The action has been long-anticipated as use of opioids has rapidly escalated to a full-blown epidemic. A recent federal count found that deaths from the use of fentanyl has skyrocketed nearly 540 percent over the past three years, killing more than 60,000 people in the United States last year alone.  But Trump’s move falls short of initial promises to declare America’s opioid use a national emergency, which would have ear-marked federal funding to address the problem.
Advertisement

Declaring a public health emergency, on the other hand, will not on its own release any money to deal with the crisis, though it will allow grant money to be used in efforts combatting the crisis. The move will likely also relax certain laws and regulations in order to better address the still-growing crisis. And Trump officials told reporters that it would expand access to medical care in rural areas through things like telemedicine.
Trump is slated to announce the plan at the White House Thursday afternoon before signing  a presidential memorandum on opioids. While tackling opioid abuse was a major talking point on the campaign trail, Thursday’s announcement will be the first significant step he has taken towards making good on promises to make drug abuse a top priority.
All this said, as news of the pending announcement spread, critics of Trump in Washington said the move was still not enough.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi told The Washington Post that the announcement comes at the same time as proposed cuts to programs aimed at opioids abuse like Medicaid.
Trump’s statements, she said, are “words without the money.”


Human’s impact on nature is unmistakeable, from vast swaths of lost forest to heaps of trash on beaches. Looking at these images might be upsetting, but still demonstrate what we’ve done. They don’t demonstrate what we might lose.
Scientists warn that we’re potentially amidst a sixth mass extinction event, thanks to human activity. Humans are indirectly and directly responsible for the loss of species once as common as passenger pigeons and Tasmanian tigers. Before these species go extinct, they’re endangered—and one photographer is trying to document these species facing the struggle before it’s too late.
Advertisement

Photographer Tim Flach released his collection of stunning photographs in the enormous book Endangered this week, alongside commentary from chief scientist of the National Geographic Society, Jonathan Baille. The book costs 65 bucks. But honestly—it’s very good.
Pangolins are considered the most trafficked animal in the world. They’re hunted in Africa as meat, and in Asia where their scales are used in traditional medical treatments. All four species are considered vulnerable and one is critically endangered, writes Baille.
The sea angel’s endangered status hasn’t been evaluated, but it’s falling victim to ocean acidification. These animals are important for feeding other fish, like the larvae of cod and salmon.
Hippopotamuses are listed as vulnerable by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. Their numbers have fallen due to hunting both for meat and for their teeth, which can substitute as ivory.
Polar bears are listed as vulnerable by the IUCN as they succumb to the effects of melting polar ice caps, thanks to climate change. However, Inuit communities attempt to hunt the bears sustainably, writes Baille.
Pictured above are chalice coral polyps, followed by Montipora coral. Single coral polyps attach, building and grow together as a colony in one large aggregation of connected individual organisms. They are listed as “least concern” by the IUCN but are vulnerable to bleaching events from the effects of climate change.
Yellow-eyed tree frogs lay their eggs ten feet in the air in the plants surrounding ponds during rainy seasons, writes Baille. The frog’s habitat has been stunted thanks to development in Costa Rica’s capital, San José. The frog is currently listed as endangered by the IUCN.
Poachers and smugglers trade Madagascar’s ploughshare tortoises for their shells, and the species is now critically endangered. One organization bred 600 tortoises from a set of confiscated ones, then purposely defaced the shells to deter smugglers, writes Baille.
The pied tamarin is listed as endangered by the IUCN as suburban development has led to deforestation and habitat lost. Numbers have begun to grow as conservationists breed the species in captivity.
Endangered tells the story of the Yunnan snub-nosed monkey’s biggest fan, filmmaker Xi Zhinong. He created a documentary about the monkeys, and saved a swatch of their habitat from logging after sending a litter to the Chinese government.
The monarch butterfly isn’t endangered, yet. But conservationists are concerned after observing large declines in migrating populations in California and Mexico between 1997 and 2016, writes Baille.
Phillipine eagles are an apex predator, which makes them vulnerable to toxic chemicals that have built up through the food web as bigger animals eat smaller animals. Much of their habitat has also been deforested, and they are listed as critically endangered by the IUCN.
Each snow leopard survives on over 80 square mile habitat apiece in central Asia, meaning that humans may increasingly come into contact with them as they expand their farmland. They’re listed as endangered by the IUCN.
Saiga are listed as critically endangered by the IUCN after hunting for their meat and horns, as well as a recent bacterial infection that decimated populations. Conservationists are hopeful that the saiga will bounce back, writes Baille.
Rhinos have succumbed to heavy losses due to the high value of their horns. The South African government legalized domestic trade hoping that prices would drop, but Baille writes that 1,000 rhinos were still killed in 2016. Pictured here is the northern white rhino—there are only three northern white rhinos left on Earth, all owned by a zoo.
The 16-foot-long beluga sturgeon is illegally hunted for food—its eggs go for over $9,000 a pound, writes Baille. It is simultaneously succumbing to habitat loss from damming projects, and the IUCN lists it as critically endangered.
There are only a few hundred Indian gharials left on Earth, mostly in sanctuary. They’re the victims of threats like hunting for food and medicine as well as habitat loss from humans.
[Abrams Books]


By analyzing the bones of a small, feathered dinosaur known as Sinosauropteryx, paleontologists have mapped its unique color patterning. Incredibly, this creature featured a bandit mask-like stripe across its eyes, similar to some mammals and birds living today.
Sinosauropteryx (pronounced “Sine-oh-sore-op-tear-icks”) was first discovered in China in 1996, and it was the first dinosaur (outside of ancient birds and their immediate relatives) to be found with evidence of feathers. A new study published in Current Biology shows that it exhibited multiple forms of camouflage, including countershading (light bottom, dark top), a distinctive striped tail, and a so-called bandit’s mask—the same kind seen in modern animals such as raccoons and skunks. The discovery shows that, unsurprisingly, dinosaurs evolved sophisticated schemes to camouflage themselves (which also implies they had good vision), and that, because similar camo schemes exist today, dinosaurs must have lived in environments similar to ones we see today.
Advertisement

“Dinosaurs are fascinating beasts and filled up a lot of niches and modes of life that are now occupied by mammals and living birds,” Jakob Vinther, co-author of the new study, told Gizmodo. “We can show that they looked much like living animals because the lives they lived aren’t much different from living ones.”
Indeed, if there was ever an animal that needed camouflage it was the dinosaur. Sinosauropteryx, which lived around 120 million years ago in what is now China, was a relatively small animal that lived in world filled with fearsome predators—including relatives of the Tyrannosaurus rex. At the same time, camouflage also allowed Sinosauropteryx to sneak up on unsuspecting prey, like small lizards.
Using polarized light photography, researchers from the University of Bristol produced high resolution and contrast-rich images of Sinosauropteryx fossils. Fossilized feathers only preserve when they’re pigmented, so by mapping the presence and absence of feathers, the scientists were able to tease out its color patterns. Previous to this work, paleontologists looked at a different specimen, detecting small and round melanosomes (light-absorbing pigments found in skin and feathers) indicative of brown coloration.
“The bandit mask was surely the most fascinating discovery,” said Vinther. “It’s very common in living animals. The exact function is up to debate, but now we can show that dinosaurs also had this pattern.”
The bandit’s mask likely provided varied function, including reduction of glare (think of football players who paint dark bands underneath their eyes) or as a way to disguise eyes from predators.
“In mammals bandit masks are commonly seen in mid-sized predators and serve as warning colouration (skunk, badgers) warning larger predators that they will give up a fight, or smell,” said Vinther. “However, we think that the function in birds is more likely to be the best comparison for this dinosaur.”
Advertisement

Scientists hypothesize that the facial mask of shrikes, a small bird, allows them to hunt into the sun, which helps them detect prey and engage in surprise attacks. Other living birds with dark bandit eyes include the blue dacnis, masked laughingthrush, and nuthatches.
The researchers also detected the presence of a striped tail and a very common form of camo known as countershading. With countershading, an animal features a dark back and a light belly, which makes them look flatter and less three-dimensional. Camouflaged this way, animals don’t stand out as much against the backdrop. Animals feature varying degrees of countershading depending on their habitat, and Sinosauropteryx’s particular pattern of countershading suggests it lived in open habitats, like a plain or great meadow. Last year, the same researchers studied another dinosaur found in the same ancient lake bed deposit, but its countershading suggested it lived in a forest.
“So these two dinosaurs did not necessarily interact much with each other or at all,” said Vinther. “This means that we can now paint a more vivid picture of the landscape and habitats these dinosaurs lived in around these lake beds they are found in.”
[Current Biology]


A 6,000-year-old skull found in Papua New Guinea is the earliest record of a human killed in a tsunami, according to new research published this week.
Back in 1929, Australian geologist Paul Hossfeld uncovered a partial human skull outside the coastal town of Aitape in Papua New Guinea. An international team of scientists recently returned to the site in an effort to find out what might have killed this individual. Their analysis, which now appears in PLOS One, shows that the skull was buried in sediments bearing the distinctive characteristics of an ancient tsunami. “[We] conclude that the skull was laid down in a tsunami deposit and as such may represent the oldest known tsunami victim in the world,” write the researchers in the study.
Advertisement

The partial skull is only one of a few early skeletal remains uncovered in the area, and it was originally thought to belong to an archaic human species known as Homo erectus. More reliable carbon dating placed it to between 5,000 and 6,000 years old, which means it most certainly belonged to a modern human.
In 2014, a team led by James Goff, an anthropologist from the University of New South Wales and first author of the new study, returned to the spot, Paniri Creek, where the skull was originally found in hopes of finding new evidence. Ninety years ago, Hossfeld didn’t bother to record any local evidence, such as taking soil samples or analyzing the stratigraphic layers, and instead wrote a field description that, at the very least, included information about where the skull fragment was unearthed.
“What we were doing was actually going in and sampling the sediments to bring back for lab analysis that would tell us a lot more about the age and depositional history there,” said co-author Mark Golitko, an assistant professor of anthropology at the University of Notre Dame, in a statement. “We were able to use modern scientific techniques to understand a little more about how this place formed and what we were actually looking at.”
The researchers conducted a chemical analysis of the dirt and sediment found in-and-around the site, while also measuring the size of the grains. Importantly, they also discovered the presence of preserved diatoms—small, single-celled aquatic creatures that can be used to paint a picture of what water conditions were like at the time. When diatoms die, they form a tiny shell around them and then sink to the bottom. Goff’s team put the sediment under a microscope and counted the diatoms, which allowed them to determine the temperature, salinity, and energy of the water when they died.
“These sediments that the Aitape skull was in have pure marine diatoms in them, which is ocean water that’s inundating it,” explained Golitko. “It’s really high-energy ocean water—high-energy enough for these little tiny specks of silica that the diatoms build to be broken as they’re washing in.”
These three things combined—the high-energy water, the chemical signatures, and the grain sizes of the sediment—strongly suggest the presence of a tsunami at the time the skull was buried.
Advertisement

“We have now been able to confirm what we have long suspected,” said Goff. “The geological similarities between the sediments at the place where the skull was found and sediments laid down during the 1998 tsunami that hit this same coastline have made us realize that human populations in this area have been affected by these massive inundations for thousands of years.”
The authors say the Aitape individual was either violently killed by the ancient tsunami, or their grave was ripped apart by a tsunami, leading to their head—but not the rest of the body—being brought out to sea and then back to shore where it was buried among the incoming debris. But this “grave” theory, say the researchers, isn’t likely.
Despite this ancient tsunami, people continued to live along this part of the Papua New Guinea coast. Looking ahead, the researchers would like to learn more about how people lived in the area at the time and in the periods following this natural disaster to see how they might have responded to these risks. As the researchers conclude in their study:
[Tsunamis] may have contributed to a much more dynamic world of community and individual mobility and an increasing reliance on risk-mitigation strategies including the fostering and maintenance of wider-ranging social ties...[playing] a significant role in the spread of materials and new ideas and practices throughout the [southwest] Pacific as documented in the mid-Holocene archaeological record.
So as destructive as tsunamis have been (and continue to be), these recurring natural disasters may have actually brought communities together, pushing human development forward. In this case, it was one step back, two steps forward.
[PLOS One]


On Monday, Chinese scientists published a paper heralding a truly remarkable feat: Using the genome-editing technique CRISPR, they created 12 healthy pigs with about 24 percent less body fat than usual. The implications of their research is potentially huge. The pigs have a gene that allows them to better regulate body temperature by burning up fat, which could save farmers millions in heating and feeding costs and prevent little piggies from suffering and dying in the cold.
Then came the headlines.
“Healthy bacon? Scientists engineer skinny pigs with low body fat,” wrote Newsweek, amping up the claim even more on social media to proclaim that “diet bacon might now be a thing.”
“CRISPR’d pigs could produce low-fat bacon,” said TechCrunch.
“Scientists edited pig genes and accidentally made bacon healthier,” BGR exclaimed.
Advertisement

Here’s the thing, though: Scientists have not created a diet bacon product. Bacon is not and will never be healthy. What makes bacon sizzle and crisp in a pan is fat. Not to mention that, fat aside, bacon contains almost half the recommended daily amount of salt and often nitrates to preserve shelf life and enhance color. Not exactly the picture of health.
The Chinese scientists did engineer a pig that will have more lean meat than typical pigs, which may be better for farmers looking to sell to conscious consumers. But there are already leaner cuts of bacon available in any grocery store. And, as The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this year, when it comes to pigs, Americans are leaning towards fattier meat, rather than leaner. As any bacon lover will tell you, leaner bacon just doesn’t fry up properly in a pan. Short of engineering less fatty fat, it’s unlikely the diet bacon will be a thing, well, ever.
What scientists did do is actually much more significant. They found a way to potentially improve the welfare of livestock animals and at the same time a farmer’s bottom line. Pigs lack a gene, called UCP1, that most other mammals have to help regulate body temperature in cold weather. By editing a mouse version of the gene into pig cells, they gave pigs the ability to withstand colder temperatures more easily, too. (Not that such a product will be available any time soon in the US, given the FDA’s hesitancy to approve genetically modified animals for sale and consumer skepticism about eating them.)
If you’re looking for a healthier breakfast option, the best route doesn’t require any genetic engineering at all: Just lay off the bacon.


April 22nd was supposed to be a victory lap and the birth of a new movement. That day, the March for Science saw a million scientists and science lovers descend on Washington, D.C. and cities and hamlets around the world, the physical manifestation of a viral online campaign.
It was the first time scientists had ever mobilized en masse as the centerpiece of movement, spurred by the Trump administration’s attacks on everything from climate change science to diversity and inclusivity. But in the six months since the signs were recycled and the white coats returned to the labs, the March for Science has been dogged by the same problems that plagued it in the run up to April 22nd. On Monday, 15 past and present march volunteers posted an open letter outlining persistent issues with the March, including its approach to inclusivity, organizational dysfunction, and mismanagement.
Advertisement

“We are concerned about ongoing issues related to transparency, undervaluing and mismanaging volunteer labor, and sidelining both diverse voices and the ways science relates to justice and equity,” the authors wrote in their letter. “Though the organization calls itself an open, grassroots movement, it is run like a closed, hierarchical organization.”
The open letter belies turmoil at an organization that at its conception was seen as the potential dawn of a new movement fusing science with advocacy. Instead, letter signatories and other past and present volunteers have told a story of an organization unable to provide clarity on its day-to-day work as well as its next steps.
“It’s not really one individual but the way the organization is structured,” Amber Ying, a social media volunteer with the March and one of the open letter’s signatories, told Earther. “There’s very little communication about what is going with daily operations.”
Beyond the daily grind, the letter signatories also say there are deeper questions about the finances of the organization. There is no public information about what’s happening with the $1.3 million raised by the organization through April 30, the donations that have come in since or, until recently, who is being paid by the national organization.
In the wake of the open letter, the March for Science updated its people page to reflect that it has nine employees. It does not include all their roles in the organization, though, which stands somewhat in contrast to the transparency the open letter signatories called for.
One of those paid staffers is Caroline Weinberg, one of the national co-chairs, who has been paid as the interim executive director since late August. The letter signatories said that hiring Weinberg goes against promises made that the co-chairs would have a role on the board but not take paid positions.
Advertisement

Weinberg told Earther that the search for a permanent executive director will begin December “if not earlier” and more details will become available on the organization’s financials soon.
“Our monthly expenses are $36,870 going towards staff, digital advocacy tools, legal fees, insurance, and things like website hosting and email accounts,” she said. “Our budget will be released this week as part of our [501]c3 application.”
Fights about inclusivity have also sapped the March of some of its energy. The March first presented itself as apolitical, which rankled some scientists who view science and politics as intimately entwined. After authoring a diversity statement, Harvard cognitive scientist Steven Pinker accused the bubbling movement of compromising “its goals with anti-science PC/identity politics/hard-left rhetoric.”
Advertisement

That started a back and forth on how to represent diversity and politics punctuated by the March taking those issues lightly and at times, flippantly.

The letter signatories and other scientists also suggest the March continues to push diversity issues to the side. The March for Science came under fire from the right for being too focused on identity politics, and swerved in response to those critiques in a way that alienated researchers who view science, diversity and justice as intrinsically linked.
Advertisement

Those issues have led a number of scientists Earther spoke with to focus their efforts advocating for science and equality in science elsewhere.
“The Science March could have been a moment where the public and the scientific community came together to redefine what science for all would look like, but I just haven’t seen any concerted efforts to shape that kind of a conversation into a coherent vision I can rally behind,” Maryam Zaringhalam, a molecular biologist who marched in April, told Earther.
Zaringhalam is one of the leaders of 500 Women Scientists, another viral grassroots effort that sprung out of an open letter about more inclusivity in science in the wake of Trump’s inauguration. The group initially supported the March for Science and offered to help organizers address diversity after the march was repeatedly criticized for tweets that seemed to make light of serious issues.
Advertisement

“Whenever we tried to offer constructive criticism, we were met with defensiveness, which didn’t help shape the March in a way that aligned with 500 Women Scientists’ mission,” Zaringhalam said.
That led 500 Women Scientists to eventually dissolve their partnership with the march. Others who see the explicit link between science, politics, and diversity also view the March as still failing to represent the reality that science doesn’t happen in a vacuum.
“Honestly, I can’t tell what the March for Science is up to these days,” Chanda Prescod-Weinstein, a theoretical astrophysicist at the University of Washington and early March critic, told Earther. “I have no sense that anything has come out of the March, except a lot of clarity on how American higher education has failed to contextualize for students of science the relationship between science and society.”

All of these issues have come to a head again at the six-month mark of the March. They also come at a time of increasing politicization of science with the Trump administration rolling back environmental protections, deleting references to climate change from websites and pushing the travel ban, which inherently harms scientists and collaborations.
Advertisement

It’s a time when civil society, including scientists, should in theory be more engaged than ever with these issues. But the March doesn’t appear to have seized that opportunity, leaving the letter signatories and others frustrated.
After the March, organizers coordinated a week of intense planning to figure out what was next. The national organization’s social media channels kept tweeting and posting but the site wasn’t updated and until recently, still including information on the Washington, D.C. march route itself, according to Weinberg.
While the group drafted proposals in the early summer based on planning sessions and a listening tour, it’s unclear what’s happened with them since to Ying and other letter signatories. In the meantime, many local chapters have taken actions on their own, with little guidance from the national level.
Advertisement

“From my conversations, satellite march leaders have disengaged because they feel time and effort to shape the organization post-march has been ignored,” Aaron Huertas, the former national communications lead for the March who also signed the letter, told Earther. “Unfortunately, the national organization has left a lot of that momentum on the table and it has withered because they haven’t approached it from a grassroots level.”
Despite the unrest, the March for Science still has the power to make an impact in the science community and the letter’s signatories believe the letter can be part of that process.
“The systemic communications issues, sidelining, all this is something you’ll find anywhere,” Ying said. “But knowing it is such a common problem, we should be able to talk about it openly and improve our movement going forward.”
Advertisement

Ying and Huertas both also advocated for the local chapters of the March to have a greater say in what comes next, and that there are already examples of what that could look like. The Houston chapter, for example, is putting on an event to help schools and donate blood in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. Ying said the national organization could make a meaningful impact by helping financially support events like this in other local chapters and having a clearer message.
“We never felt like we had a single point of contact at the national level,” Sasha Luks-Morgan, a PhD student at the University of Utah who helped organize the Salt Lake City march, told Earther. “Watching all of the debates about the importance of diversity from afar was extremely disheartening. It felt like the national organizers could never decide who they were, or what they wanted to do.”
The national organization could also make some headway if it chooses to wade into the politics, an area it has tried to avoid by broad messaging about advocating for science. But that message may be falling on deaf ears on the right.
Advertisement

Matthew Motta, a political science PhD candidate at the University of Minnesota, told Earther science—specifically rejecting science and expertise around issues like climate change—was on the minds of Republican voters in 2016 but it wasn’t for Democrats. Motta’s research shows that the March for Science may have polarized opinions on science further, with liberals becoming more supportive of science and scientists while conservatives became more distrustful of experts (though interestingly, not science itself).
Increasing polarization isn’t exactly ideal, but Motta said his findings show that  the door could be open for March organizers to play a role in lifting up Democratic candidates in 2018 midterms.
“We see this growth of scientists and academics running for office happening now,” Motta said. “That’s an interesting development showing there’s this express link between science and politics. So if the March for Science can say things like throw your support behind these specific candidates, it could make a dent.”
Advertisement

It’s still a big tbd if the March for Science goes down that road even as other groups ramp up their actions to support scientists and advocate for equality. That includes the aforementioned 500 Women Scientists, as well as groups like 314 Action that have sprung up to support scientists running for office, and Science for the People, which focuses on the links between social justice and science. The March may have lost its opportunity to be the center of the burgeoning movement of scientists trying to shape policy, but it still has the chance to be a part of it. And the movement will go on regardless.
This post was updated to include comments from the Sasha Luks-Morgan, one of the Salt Lake City march organizers.


Here’s the thing about quantum mechanics: it works on Earth, but how do we know that it works elsewhere—like in space? That requires testing it over and over again, building wild experiments that send particles all over the planet. After some new results, things still seem to check out.
A key property of quantum mechanics—the physics theory of the smallest modica of matter—is that the tiniest stuff can take on both wave and particle properties simultaneously. One physicist named John Wheeler devised a thought experiment decades ago to prove this. A team of physicists reenacted Wheeler’s experiment between Earth and a satellite, once again extending our understanding of quantum physics to outer space.
Advertisement

“We search not for new predictions, but new insight,” study author Paolo Villoresi from the University of Padua told Gizmodo.
Villoresi’s team used the Matera Laser Ranging Observatory (MLRO) in Italy, along with a special satellite, to perform Wheeler’s experiment. Essentially, they were hoping to determine whether light decides immediately to chose its identity as a wave or a particle, or if light takes on the properties of both simultaneously until an experimenter actually makes a measurement.
The experiment itself is fairly complex, but here’s a simpler analogue. Imagine standing against the back wall in a square room with mirrors on the left and right wall. If you point one laser pointer at the left wall and another at the right wall, you’d see two spots on the back wall—the laser is acting like a particle. But then you put a special semi-transparent mirror in the way of the lasers where you’d expect them to cross paths after bouncing off of the walls. The mirror directs both beams to both spots, but if done properly, only one spot will appear. Some of the light will cancel out and some will become brighter, because waves cancel or add together based on their position relative to one another.
Wheeler realized that, if sometime after you turn the laser on, the weird mirror suddenly appears,  you can determine whether the laser photons decided to be waves or particles beforehand based on what the back wall looked like. This time around, the physicists basically recreated that strange room, except they sent the light to space before it hit the special mirror—and the sending of the light into space is what was new. The experimenters once again observed the simultaneous wave and particle nature of light. This research now appears in Science Advances.
One researcher, Sandu Popescu from the University of Bristol, felt that this experiment primarily confirms things we already know, but for distances we’ve yet to measure. He cautioned that deviations from expectations are unlikely to show up. “If there is any change at all, one would expect only extremely small deviations; checking for them is probably well beyond the capability of these pioneering new experiments,” he told Gizmodo in an email. “Hence, from this point of view there is not too much surprise in what the experiments showed, but, again, these are just the very first steps in what is a very exciting new direction.”
Still, this experiment is part of a larger force of technological progress in the field, in the wake of other experiments testing quantum mechanics on huge distances like China’s Micius satellite.  For now, said Popescu, the excitement surrounds the fact that researchers can build these new tools to gut check simple, well-established phenomena. “I expect however that soon these tools will be used for far more interesting and useful tasks,” he said.
So, quantum mechanics has once again passed another test, this one in the works since 2003, said Villoresi. Quantum mechanics still seems to work, even as it crosses into the depths of space and through the weirdness of differing gravity.
[Science Advances]


The Information Technology Industry Council (ITI)—a Washington D.C.-based lobby group that boasts Google, Amazon, and Microsoft among its many clients—is telling governments to think twice about establishing laws to regulate AI. But given mounting safety, ethical, and social justice concerns, is that such a good idea?
On Tuesday, ITI released its “AI Policy Principles,” in which the lobby group outlined “specific areas where industry, governments, and others can collaborate, as well as specific opportunities for public-private partnership.” In the new document, ITI acknowledged the need for the tech sector to promote the responsible development and use of AI, while calling upon governments to support, incentivize, and fund AI research efforts. But as for letting governments take a peek at an ITI client’s source code, or enact  laws  to steer the safe and ethical development of AI, that’s something it’s a bit less enthused about.
Advertisement

“We also encourage governments to evaluate existing policy tools and use caution before adopting new laws, regulations, or taxes that may inadvertently or unnecessarily impede the responsible development and use of AI,” notes ITI in its new list of AI principles. “This extends to the foundational nature of protecting source code, proprietary algorithms, and other intellectual property. Failure to do so could present a significant cyber risk.”
According to its mandate, ITI seeks to “encourage all governments around the world—including the US government—to develop policies, standards, and regulations that promote innovation and growth for the tech industry.” It represents some of the heaviest hitters in the tech sector, including Amazon, Facebook, Google, IBM, and Microsoft, while claiming to be “the global voice of the tech sector” and “a catalyst for preparing an AI world.”
ITI’s document is timely given just how important AI is starting to become, both in terms of its burgeoning influence on our lives (whether it be a photo-sorting app or an algorithm that invents new medicines), and in the global economy (ITI estimates that AI will add at least $7 trillion to the global economy by 2025). But it’s also timely given the recent calls for oversight and regulation. As Bloomberg reporters Gerrit De Vynck and Ben Brody write:
Big tech companies, and their software, are coming under more scrutiny in the wake of news that Russian-sponsored accounts used social networks to spread discord and try to influence the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Algorithms designed by Facebook, Twitter Inc. and Google have also been criticized for increasing political polarization by giving people the type of news they already agree with, creating so-called “filter bubbles.”
And the concerns don’t stop there. Developers are starting to be criticized for allowing their AI systems to adopt human biases and prejudices (a recent Princeton study, for example, showed that some AI systems are sexist and racist). There’s also uncertainty about how AI will contribute to technological unemployment, automated warfare, and computer hacking. And there’s still no consensus on the specific ethical or moral codes that need to be imbued into these systems.
There’s also the frightening potential, as thinkers like Elon Musk, Stephen Hawking, and others have pointed out, for something to go horribly wrong with AI. As the recent AI breakthrough by Google-owned DeepMind demonstrated, a fast takeoff event, in which AI evolves into a superintelligent form, may happen relatively quickly and without warning, thus introducing catastrophic—and possibly existential—threats.
As all of this is happening, it shouldn’t come as a surprise that some concerned observers are calling for the government to step in. Musk has warned that governments need to implement regulations “before it’s too late,” and that it’s only after things get out of hand that we tend to act. Two years ago, the White House implemented a preliminary AI strategy, saying AI needs to be ethical, that it must augment, and not replace, humans, and that everyone should have a chance to participate in the development of these systems. But as for formal regulations, the White House said it’s still premature. As former US president Obama told Wired last year, “Most people aren’t spending a lot of time right now worrying about the Singularity—they are worrying about ‘Well, is my job going to be replaced by a machine?’”
Patrick Lin, director of the Ethics + Emerging Sciences Group at California Polytechnic State University, says that regulating new technologies is always a delicate balancing act.
Advertisement

“If you set regulation too early, then you may be betting on the wrong standards, and that would be terrible for commercialization, which is important,” Lin told Gizmodo. “The same problem exists with setting too many or unnecessary regulations; they can create barriers to innovation. But commercialization isn’t the only value at stake here; public safety is another value in the equation. So, if there’s little or no regulation for technologies that can have serious impact on our lives—from self-driving cars to AI systems that make criminal sentencing and bank lending decisions—then that will be bad for society. It’s a mistake to have a knee-jerk reaction either way, reflexively for or against regulation. Each technology is different and needs to be considered carefully on its own merits.”
Lin says this conversation is currently happening in regards to autonomous vehicles, with one camp arguing that regulatory standards will put manufacturers on the same page about safety-critical functions (which would protect the industry from some liability), with the other camp saying we don’t know enough to start forging standards.
“A middle path between no regulation and state regulation is to let industry regulate itself, which is the ITI approach,” says Lin. “But this is far from ideal as well: it’s letting the fox guard the henhouse. There’s no teeth to enforce self-regulations if a company breaks rank; there may be even less transparency than with government regulators; and many other problems.”
Advertisement

Currently, the US has no federal agency dedicated to regulating or monitoring AI, and it’ll probably be a while before we see anything like that (if ever). In the meantime, it’ll be up to various groups, both inside and outside the government, to monitor developments in AI, such as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (to oversee development of autonomous vehicles) and the Department of Homeland Security (to monitor cybersecurity threats). Some private individuals and companies have created their own groups, such as Musk’s OpenAI initiative and Google’s DeepMind Ethics & Society group. But as Lin points out, there’s a “having your cake and eat it, too” aspect to self-regulation.
“On one hand, industry (correctly) says that AI is going to be this game-changing, super-revolutionary thing, but on the other hand, they often tell us not to worry about it, that they have it handled,” he said. “Worse, because the AI industry is so fragmented and full of start-ups—or even individuals without formal education or professional training, working from their basements—you couldn’t possibly get them all on board with your self-imposed regulations, whereas government regulations can use the full force of law to achieve compliance.”
Lin says that self-regulation may be better than no regulation or uninformed regulation, especially when it’s about a technology that could cause major problems for society. As examples, he points to fake news, dieselgate, biased decision systems, and so on.
Advertisement

Sara Wachter-Boettcher, author of Technically Wrong: Sexist Apps, Biased Algorithms, and Other Threats of Toxic Tech, says she’s happy to see an acknowledgement of the problem and development of shared principles, but the underlying message to her seems to be, “trust us, we’re working on it.”
“I would ask, what evidence do we have that they’ve got a handle on removing bias from AI? Why should we trust tech companies when we see examples of them embedding bias into software, or launching products with unintended consequences, every day?,” Wachter-Boettcher told Gizmodo. “I understand that it’s not as simple as lifting the curtain and letting the public look at the code, but there needs to be agreed-upon and enforced levels of transparency and accountability. While industry says it’s afraid of slowing down innovation, I think the rest of us should be a lot more worried about the real risk of flying headfirst into even more inequality, bias, and unintended harm.”
In an email to Gizmodo, Jaan Tallinn, the co-founder of Skype, said “we need regulation eventually, but first we need more research into what a positive and effective regulation should look like.”
Advertisement

And indeed, those arguing for regulations are having some difficulty articulating what actually needs regulating, and how it should be implemented and enforced. Thankfully, however, these conversations have started and the frameworks for AI regulation are starting to emerge.
As Tallinn noted, we’re going to need regulations eventually. The self-serving principles set out by ITI can be seen as pre-emptive attack to delay the inevitable, and to protect its clients from what it sees as meddlesome and potentially costly intrusions.
And self-serving it is; it can hardly be said, for example—and as stated in the new list of principles—that the ITI clientele could use some additional financial support from the government. As Oxford philosopher Nick Bostrom wrote last year, “Great resources are devoted to making [progress in AI] happen, with major (and growing) investments from both industry and academia in many countries.” At the same time, investments “in long-term AI safety...remains orders of magnitude less than investment in increasing AI capabilities.” That ITI did not list the funding of AI safety initiatives by industry, government, and private sources as an “AI principle” is as problematic as it is revealing. Moreover, it’s not immediately obvious that profit-driven companies with cranky shareholders in the background are in any way interested in constraints imposed by outside forces, or in voluntarily contributing to the public good. Regulations and government oversight exists in the absence of pro-social forces within the overarching capitalist framework.
Advertisement

“We can hope that corporate self-interest will align with public interests, but that is a giant leap of faith, and many companies in ITIC don’t exactly have a great track record at winning public trust,” Lin told Gizmodo. “It’s important to remember that they’re not in the business of protecting the public or promoting democracy—their business is business. When profit motives and humanitarian motives collide, take a wild guess which one usually wins.”
Note: this post was updated to include the comments made by Sara Wachter-Boettcher.
[Bloomberg]


The genome editing technology CRISPR revolutionized genetic engineering by allowing scientists to cut and paste tiny snippets of DNA with more precision than ever before. Now, one of the groups responsible for that technology has harnessed the power of CRISPR to also edit RNA, a molecule that, like DNA, is essential in the coding, regulation, and expression of genes. This development could eventually allow scientists to alter the expression of genes in the human body without having to change the genome itself.
“Editing at the level of RNA has several advantages,” Feng Zhang, a scientist at the Broad Institute and senior author on a new paper published today in Science, told Gizmodo. “It’s more flexible than making a permanent change to the DNA, which has important implications for therapeutic use, and it allows you to study and control a wide range of cellular processes, such as splicing, mRNA modification [and] signaling cascades.”
Advertisement

Along with DNA and proteins, RNA is one of life’s vital macromolecules, involved in both protein synthesis and the transmission of genetic information. In a cell, genetic information flows from DNA to RNA and then to proteins, with the RNA acting as a sort of arbitrar between the two. In recent years, though, our understanding of the role RNA plays has vastly expanded. Defective RNA, rather than DNA, has also been implicated as the source of some human diseases, including some cancers.
To edit RNA, scientists needed to create a new editing system. There are many different CRISPR enzymes, and most CRISPR genome engineering systems rely on one called Cas9. The RNA editing system developed by Zeng and his colleagues relies on a different enzyme, Cas13b. The system allows researchers to change a single nucleoside, or RNA letter, in an RNA chain in mammalian cells. They’re calling the system RNA Editing for Programmable A to I Replacement, or “REPAIR.”
Where the REPAIR system could be a game-changer is in allowing scientists to alter disease-causing mutations without actually permanently changing a person’s genetic code. By correcting problematic mutations to the letters that encode RNA, scientists could potentially reverse mutations without causing permanent change to the genome, since RNA degrades naturally over time.
“This is a significant advance since it adds another dimension to [research] and editing capabilities,” said Eric Topol, a geneticist at the Scripps Research Institute, in an interview with Gizmodo. “It will help in determining which genes are essential, and especially the function of non-coding RNA which is often so elusive, difficult to understand. On the medical side the advantage is temporal intervention since RNA editing is transient and reversible—many medical conditions might benefit from such a specific timed, short-term editing process.”
Of course, Topol added, all this is theoretical—so far it has only been tested on human cells in the lab, and not on actual human beings.
The new technique does have some serious limitations. For one, explained Zhang,  they’ve only figured out how to use the system to make a single base change. The system is only able to reverse Gs that have mutated to become As, a mutation tied to diseases including Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Parkinson’s disease.
Advertisement

“Although very common in genetic disease, [it] is only one of the possible 12 nucleotide edits [i.e. base changes] that can be made,” he said. “We would like develop additional base editors to expand the suite of tools available.”
More interesting, perhaps, is the way in which RNA editing could reframe the ethical debate around gene editing. Many concerns stem from the fact that altering someone’s genome is permanent; an edit that comes with unintended consequences could last forever, and even be passed down through generations. For some diseases, though, editing RNA could offer a workaround.


The prizes, the lights, the sounds, and a quick-talking barker make it hard to resist playing carnival games, but is every game a fool’s bet? In his latest video, Mark Rober, an ex-NASA JPL engineer, breaks down the science of what makes some of these games so challenging, and others near impossible to win.
For instance, the regulation height of a basketball hoop is 10 feet off the ground, but Mark found the hoops at his local carnival were actually 11 feet tall, which would throw off even an NBA star. As for games that are almost impossible to win? Don’t bother trying to shoot the star off a paper target with a BB gun. You’ll have physics and the laws of the universe working against you ever winning that stuffed bear you’re eyeing.
[YouTube]



Physicist Albert Einstein, one of history’s greatest minds, has been proven right in the long term about a lot of things, like the continued success of his theory of general relativity to aspects of that theory which eluded detection for decades, like the existence of gravitational waves. Now he’s been proven right on his split decision to jot down some stuff on a piece of paper instead of giving a messenger a cash tip.
Per the Washington Post, two short pieces of advice Einstein wrote for a messenger while on a 1922 lecture tour in Japan have sold for a combined $1.8 million at Jerusalem auction house Winner’s Auctions and Exhibitions. The seller claimed that at the time, Einstein had recently won the Nobel Prize in physics, and was “impressed but also embarrassed by the publicity” while staying at the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo. He also didn’t have any loose change, so Einstein wrote down two pieces of life advice for the messenger in lieu of a tip and told the messenger the notes would probably be worth more in the long run.

At the time, Einstein was quickly becoming one of the most famous men in the world—though his esteem would only grow, with his later legacy including his work on quantum mechanics and somewhat infamously the atomic bomb. According to the Post, he left his papers to the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
Advertisement

Maybe Einstein meant his advice would be more valuable in a non-financial sense, but the auction still made bank. One of the notes, which the Post reported was written in German on hotel stationary and sold for $1.56 million, is the one in which Einstein laid out his purported theory of happiness. The physicist wrote, “A calm and modest life brings more happiness than the pursuit of success combined with constant restlessness.” It’s pretty good advice!
The other note said “When there’s a will there’s a way,” an aphorism that Einstein definitely did not come up with, and thus sold for a considerably smaller $240,000. Which, fair.
According to the Post, both the seller and the buyer chose to remain anonymous.
Before you get any bright ideas, you’re not Einstein and you have to leave a cash tip. Sorry.
[Washington Post]


Think you’re having a bad day? Check out this bear and his impossibly swollen tongue. Alarmed by the bear’s predicament, an international team of experts were asked to perform an emergency procedure, giving the poor animal a new lease on life.
The bear’s name is Nyan htoo, which means “bright,” and he, along with his brother, are currently living as rescue cases in a Myanmar monastery. Last year, the monks noticed that something weird was going on with Nyan htoo’s tongue, as it was starting to get freakishly large. They called in some local vets who decided to operate and remove some excess tissue, but the swelling came back and got even worse.
Advertisement

Needless to say, the enlarged tongue began to affect the bear’s quality of life. Nyan htoo was still able to play and wrestle with his brother, but the tongue became so swollen that it started to drag along the floor. He would often bite down on it by accident, and it got so heavy that he had to rest his head on the cage bars for additional support.
By June 2017, an international team of experts was called in to address the deteriorating situation, a team that included animal welfare expert and veterinary surgeon Heather Bacon of the University of Edinburgh’s Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, Caroline Nelson, a veterinary nurse at the Animals Asia Bear Rescue Centre in Vietnam, and Romain Pizzi from Wildlife Surgery International. The effort was funded by the Winton Foundation for the Welfare of Bears and Free the Bears.
The team traveled to Myanmar where they worked with local vets to carry out a tongue amputation. Working for three hours in soaring temperatures, the team managed to remove 6.6 pounds (3 kilograms) of tissue. It’s been several months since the procedure, and Nyan htoo—with a significantly reduced tongue—is doing well.
“This was a really unusual medical condition—never before seen in any species of bear—but we weren’t about to give up on Nyan htoo,” noted Nelson in a release. “Now he will be able to eat much more comfortably, sleep in more natural positions and move more freely for the rest of his life.”
The veterinary team think the swelling was caused by a tropical disease known as Lymphatic filariasis, or elephantiasis. It’s a parasitic disease that’s transmitted by mosquitoes, and it’s the first time it’s been documented in a bear. For humans, Lymphatic filariasis is a major headache, causing intense swelling of the scrotum in men (a condition called hydrocele). The US Centers for Disease Control says it’s a “leading cause of permanent disability worldwide, and that communities “frequently shun and reject women and men disfigured by the disease.”
Thankfully for Nyan htoo, his ordeal is over, and he can get back to wrestling with his brother.
[University of Edinburgh]


Veteran astronaut Paul J. Weitz has died at the age of 85. Among his many accomplishments, Weitz served as a pilot aboard the Skylab space station, commanded the first flight of the Space Shuttle Challenger, and logged nearly 800 total hours in space.
Weitz died on Monday, October 23 in Flagstaff, Arizona. The retired astronaut had been diagnosed with myelodysplastic syndrome, a type of blood cancer. He will be remembered as one of the most accomplished astronauts to slip on a spacesuit, having contributed to the seminal Skylab-2 mission, the Space Shuttle program, and as a NASA administrator.

He was born on July 25, 1932 in Pennsylvania where he also attended university. He served for a year aboard a US destroyer before attending flight training, earning his pilot’s license in September 1956. Weitz served in various naval squadrons, amassing more than 7,700 hours flying time, of which 6,400 hours were logged in jet aircraft. In April 1966, he was selected to join NASA as an astronaut.
Advertisement

Weitz was a pilot on the crew of Skylab-2 (SL-2)—the very first Skylab mission to have an active crew. From May 25 to June 22, 1973, the crew established what was then a world record for a single mission, logging 672 hours and 49 minutes aboard the pioneering space station (doubling the previous record).
But the Skylab mission was memorable for another reason as well; a shield designed to protect the station from overheating and collisions with small meteorites had torn loose during lift-off. NASA decided to delay the flight so that Weitz, along with two crewmembers, could practice repairs on the ground. The BBC explains what happened next:
The astronauts eventually launched on 25 May and approached Skylab in their Apollo command module. Positioning their spacecraft near a jammed solar panel on Skylab, Weitz opened the Apollo module’s airlock and extended a 3m (10ft)-long pole designed to free the component.
He tugged hard at the solar panel, while Joe Kerwin held him by the ankles.
“We thought maybe we’d just break it loose. So we got down near the end of the solar array and I got a hold of it with the shepherd’s crook,” Mr Weitz said in an interview with NASA in 2000. “But what we really hadn’t thought about was, in heaving on it, trying to break the thing free, what I was doing, in effect, I was pulling the command module... in toward the workshop....Also, surprising in a totally weightless environment, I was moving the workshop some, too, because we could see its thrusters firing to maintain its attitude... So it made for some dicey times.”
It was clear that the array wasn’t going to budge, so the astronauts went back inside the command module.
Not only did this initial attempt fail, the effort consumed a significant amount of Skylab’s maneuvering fuel to keep it steady. Two weeks later, another spacewalk proved successful. Astronauts Charles Conrad and Joseph Kerwin managed to deploy the solar panel structure, but the sudden movement caused the astronauts to be flung from Skylab into space—saved only by their tethers. In total, Weitz logged two hours and 11 minutes of spacewalk time during the mission.
As an interesting side note, it’s very likely that, had NASA extended the Apollo Missions, Weitz would have been sent to the Moon, possibly on Apollo 20 (which never happened).
Ten years after Skylab, and at the age of 51, Weitz was designated the commander of STS-6—the maiden voyage of the Space Shuttle Challenger, which launched from Kennedy Space Center, Florida, on April 4, 1983. During the mission, Weitz’s crew performed various experiments, recorded lightning in the Earth’s atmosphere, deployed a satellite, and tested equipment in preparation for future spacewalks. The mission lasted 120 hours, bringing Weitz’s total time in space time to 793 hours. Tragically, the Challenger was destroyed during liftoff on January 28, 1986.
After calling it quits as an astronaut, Weitz served as Deputy Director of the Johnson Space Center, finally retiring from NASA service in May 1994.
[NASA I, II, NPR, BBC]


The common understanding of diabetes mellitus includes two types: type one and type two. But there’s a third type that’s been around for a while you may not have even heard of—and some doctors think it’s being misdiagnosed.
Type 3c diabetes, or “Diabetes of the Exocrine Pancreas,” is a third type caused by pancreatic damage. But a recent study found that doctors were likely misdiagnosing this form of diabetes as type 2. But the two require different treatment.
Advertisement

“Several drugs used for type 2 diabetes, such as gliclazide, may not be as effective in type 3c diabetes,” Andrew McGovern from the University of Surry wrote in The Conversation. “Misdiagnosis, therefore, can waste time and money attempting ineffective treatments while exposing the patient to high blood sugar levels.”
Scientists have recognized other types of diabetes aside from type-1 (the body destroys its own insulin-producing cells) or type-2 (the body can’t make enough insulin) for a long time. Back in 2008, researchers worried that type 3c had been under- and misdiagnosed. A new study, published recently in the journal Diabetes Care, adds further evidence to that worry after a search through millions of health records in the United Kingdom.
The researchers found over 30,000 adult-onset cases of diabetes, and found 559 occurred after pancreatic disease. Despite the link between pancreatic disease and type 3c diabetes, 88 percent of those cases were still diagnosed with the more common type of adult-onset diabetes, type 2 diabetes and only 3 percent diagnosed as type 3c—implying at least some level of misdiagnosis. Those with diabetes following their pancreatic disorder generally had worse control over their blood sugar and required more insulin.
Obviously this is an observational study based on some assumptions, so there isn’t proof of misdiagnosis. Additionally, the implied type 3 diagnoses made up a tiny fraction of total adult onset cases, though more common than type 1. The results still concerned McGovern. “Our findings highlight the urgent need for improved recognition and diagnosis of this surprisingly common type of diabetes,” he wrote.
The lack of recognition is clear. Despite publishing the study in one of their journals, the American Diabetes Association does not mention diabetes types aside from 1, 2, and diabetes associated with pregnancy on their website. They did not return a request for comment. Diabetes UK does mention other types, though not explicitly cases following pancreatic disease. Still, “It’s essential that all people with diabetes receive the correct diagnosis, so that they have access to the right care and treatment to manage their condition effectively, and reduce their risk of complications,” said Douglas Twenefour, Diabetes UK Deputy Head of Care in a statement passed to Gizmodo.
What does this mean for you? Well, if you’re concerned you’ve been misdiagnosed, perhaps show your doctor McGovern’s article. McGovern wrote: “Correctly identifying the type of diabetes is important as it helps the selection of the correct treatment.”
[Diabetes Care via The Conversation]
Update 10/24/17 5:50PM: The American Diabetes Association passed along their Standards of Medical Care for 2017, which includes a one mention of “diseases of the exocrine pancreas” under “specific types of diabetes due to other causes.”


For a movie about a global weather apocalypse, Geostorm is disastrously boring, but its weather control technology deserves your brief attention. It is uniquely ridiculous!
Sadly, the premise is more relevant than ever. In Geostorm, humanity never got its shit together to address global warming, but thankfully, scientists figured out how to build a network of satellites that can zap extreme weather events out of existence before they do any harm. This arrangement works out fine until something (or someone?!!) causes the satellite network to malfunction. Eventually, all hell breaks loose. The mother of all extreme weather events—a geostorm!—starts laying waste to cities around the world with tornadoes, tsunamis, killer cold spells and scorching fires. Yet, for most of the film, scientists stare at computer screens.
Advertisement

There is a nugget of interesting science at the heart of this ill-conceived movie. While Geostorm’s weather control tech is very bogus (more on that in a sec), the idea of a large-scale, technological intervention to chill out Earth’s climate is not. This concept, called geoengineering, has been around for a few decades, but until recently it was confined to the scientific fringes. As the mere existence of a film like Geostorm demonstrates, geoengineering  has started to go mainstream.
“I think up until recently, geoengineering was considered a fringe topic, [something] people on the edges of mainstream science talked about,” Ken Caldeira, a climate scientist at the Carnegie Institute for Science who has been involved with geoengineering conversations since the early 2000s, told Gizmodo. “Now in terms of science, it’s been normalized.”
A variety of geoengineering concepts have been proposed. They run the gamut from low tech and immediately doable schemes, like dumping a bunch of iron in the ocean to stimulate the growth of carbon-sucking phytoplankton, to more advanced, science fictional ideas, like space-based solar reflectors. Perhaps the most popular idea right now is solar engineering, or injecting a bunch of tiny particles into Earth’s stratosphere to reflect incoming sunlight, just like volcanic eruptions do. A group of scientists at Harvard University are even planning to field test this idea in a (very small, very harmless) experiment sometime next year.
The problem with any and all geoengineering concepts is that conducting a global experiment on Earth’s climate system could have unintended consequences, and we’ve only got one shot to get it right. Stimulating the growth of phytoplankton may throw the marine food web out of whack; filling the stratosphere with solar-reflective sulfate particles could mess with Earth’s fragile ozone layer.
We’re not doing such a great job solving the whole climate change problem, which is why some…
The other, more fundamental issue, is that geoengineering is like putting a bandaid on a wound, while doing nothing to treat the underlying cause of illness—in this case, the ten billion tons of fossil carbon we spew into the air every year. Some social scientists fear that the mere act of studying geoengineering will cause politicians to become even more complacent than they already are about addressing climate change.
Advertisement

With all of this in mind, a movie about the dangers of technological climate interventions could in theory serve a valuable role, edifying the public on a nuanced scientific topic. Geostorm doesn’t seem to be that movie.
“One could argue that having complete nonsense [like Geostorm] is useful because it at least creates a discussion about these issues,” Caldeira said. “But that good aspect is probably outweighed by the misinformation.”
By misinformation, Caldeira means the technology at the heart of Geostorm, a network of satellites that can disrupt localized extreme weather events from space. This is laughably implausible.
Advertisement

“This idea that you can do something in one place and most of the effects can stay localized to that place is a misunderstanding of how the climate system works,” Caldeira said, noting that Earth’s atmosphere causes everything to mix. The energies involved with disrupting extreme weather events would also be mind-boggling. “It’s much more plausible that you would just get fried by an orbiting laser weapon,” Caldeira noted.
Even localized control of regular weather, through schemes like cloud seeding, has only seen limited success despite decades of research. As Chris, an air quality meteorologist who preferred to be identified on a first name only basis, told Gizmodo, “We just have recently gotten much better at forecasting the weather, never mind controlling it.”
You might (very rightly) argue that nobody’s going to a B-list disaster movie for rigorous science. But surely there isn’t any harm in suggesting the government is capable of a massive weather control project?
Meteorologists might disagree with you on that.
“When I tell strangers my occupation, about 1 in 7 ask me if the government can control the weather,” Thomas Jenkins, a meteorologist for the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Smoke Management Program, told Gizmodo. Based on responses I received from about a dozen meteorologists yesterday, Jenkins’ experience is very much the norm.
Advertisement

“I’ve fielded everything from inquiries and complaints about ‘chemtrails’ to requests for rain over a certain plot of farm land,” Chris said, adding that he thinks there’s “an innate fear in some of what the government is doing.”
Aaron Perry, a meteorologist with NBC Boston, told Gizmodo he “definitely” thinks public fears over weather control and geoengineering have grown in recent years. “Mainstream news has been reporting on current hot-button topics like fracking and cloud-seeding for the last 10+ years. There’s an implied assumption...that goes something like, ‘if they are currently doing this, they MUST be able to do this [more complex technological feat.]”
“There is fear that [this movie] will make the already large numbers of conspiracy believers even larger,” TV meteorologist Dan Satterfield told Gizmodo. Indeed, the National Weather Service was bracing for an influx of queries about weather control when Geostorm launched last week, even sending out an email reminding meteorologists how best to respond.

So far, however, those fears appear unfounded. An NWS spokesperson told Motherboard that as of Saturday, the agency has received zero queries about weather modification that referenced Geostorm. Gizmodo can confirm that as of today, that number is still zero.
Advertisement

Perhaps Geostorm’s 11% rating on Rotten Tomatoes is keeping even the conspiracy theorists at bay.


The Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 investigation has been reopened with the help of a private firm. Its incomplete story has refused to offer closure to the families of its 239 victims and has sparked conspiracy theories. But scientists have continued investigating the impact since it occurred three and a half years ago. It’s inspired one team to create a new way of locating large disturbances in the ocean, like earthquakes, meteors—and even striking airplanes.
Scientists generally discount gravity when studying the speed of sound in water. But a few cases see gravity rearing its head, like low frequency waves created by some ocean disturbances. Adding the effects back in allows researchers to turn the problem around—rather than creating a wave, they can use the mathematics to listen to the wave and then find the place where it began.
Advertisement

Usama Kadri, applied mathematician at the University of Cardiff, previously discussed these ideas with the Australian Transport Safety Bureau. He thinks they have far more applications, according to the paper published today in the journal Scientific Reports. That includes “locating falling meteorites to detecting landslides, snowslides, storm surges, and rogue waves.” Perhaps they could even be used to “detect movements in Earth’s interior and plate tectonics.”
The researchers began with an experiment using weights dropped in a large pool to confirm how an object smacking the water would look in a hydrophone. They compared this to the data they took from Indian Ocean hydrophones to find examples of impacts and seismic events from the real world. They confirmed that the waves seem to carry information about the impact with them, most importantly its location, that could be decoded by the mathematics of the so-called acoustic-gravity wave theory.
The researchers didn’t find the airplane, but signals did show up in Indian Ocean hydrophones the day of the disappearance—one in a reasonable location.  Unfortunately they were weak signals, leading to “a relatively large uncertainty in the locations.” The paper leaves potential scenarios up to “search experts to discuss.” Which they probably will.
“It is almost inconceivable and certainly societally unacceptable in the modern aviation era ... for a large commercial aircraft to be missing and for the world not to know with certainty what became of the aircraft and those on board,” the ATSB wrote, reports Jalopnik. Though no one, neither Kadri nor the ATSB, wants to falsely raise the hopes of the victims’ families.
There are limitations to most recent experiment—after all, it was done in a tank, and not the ocean. Other researchers are impressed with Kadri’s work as we’ve previously reported. But they cautioned that more modeling, both of the airplane striking the ocean and of the effects of the ocean floor itself, are required.
But this, combined with new maps of the sea floor, has shown just how much science has come out of the flight’s disappearance.
[Scientific Reports, Time]


A re-analysis of a 50,000 year old Neanderthal skull shows that, in addition to enduring multiple injuries and debilitations, this male individual was also profoundly deaf. Yet he lived well into his 40s, which is quite old by Paleolithic standards. It’s an achievement that could have only been possible with the help of others, according to new research.
When the remains of this older Neanderthal were discovered at Shanidar Cave in Iraqi Kurdistan in 1957, his many physical injuries and disabilities were immediately apparent. Analysis of his skull showed that he suffered a crushing blow to the head near his eye socket when he was young, likely causing some visual impairment. His right hand and forearm were missing, the result of an amputation. He likely walked with a serious gait, and he suffered from hyperostotic disease (DISH), which is associated with muscular pain and reduced mobility along the spine.
Advertisement

But a new analysis of this specimen, known as Shanidar 1, shows he had another major disability—one not noticed during earlier examinations. New research published in PLOS One reveals that the bony growths found in this Neanderthal’s ear canals would have resulted in serious hearing loss. So this Paleolithic-era hunter-gatherer, according to the updated analysis conducted by anthropologists Erik Trinkaus from Washington University in St. Louis and Sébastien Villotte of the French National Centre for Scientific Research, was profoundly deaf.
“It would have been essentially impossible for Shanidar 1 to maintain a sufficiently clear canal for adequate sound transmission,” noted the authors in the study. “He would therefore have been effectively deaf in his right ear, and he likely had at least partial CHL [conductive hearing loss] in the left ear.” Trinkaus and Villotte say it was “a serious sensory deprivation for a Pleistocene hunter-gatherer.”
Yet despite his deafness and his other physical setbacks, Shanidar 1 died between 40 and 50 years of age (based on dental analysis). By Paleolithic standards, he was an old man. The only way he could have lived to such a ripe old age is by receiving considerable help from others. “More than his loss of a forearm, bad limp and other injuries, his deafness would have made him easy prey for the ubiquitous carnivores in his environment and dependent on other members of his social group for survival,” said Trinkaus in a statement.
His inability to hear would have resulted in reduced communication and diminished social activities requiring coordination, thus making him less effective as a hunter and a forager. It would have been difficult for Shanidar 1 to learn how to fashion tools and use them, and as noted, he would have been more vulnerable to medium and large carnivores (e.g. wolves, large cats, bears).
“[A]n individual with advanced CHL would have been highly vulnerable alone in a Pleistocene foraging context,” write the researchers in their study. “For Shanidar 1, the CHL was associated with loss of function in other aspects of his biology, all of which would have compounded his need for support, even if some of the individual deficiencies by themselves would not have required such assistance.”
Advertisement

Trinkaus and Villotte says it’s not surprising that his fellow Neanderthals were able and willing to provide this level of social support. Profoundly, these extinct humans buried their dead, a funeral act that anthropologists say is indicative of social cohesion, social roles, and mutual support. What’s more, Neanderthals used pigments and feathers to modify their appearance, which the authors say is “a reflection of social identity manipulation and social cohesion.” To say Neanderthals cared for the physically impaired is therefore not a stretch.
Importantly, other examples of prehistoric social support exists in the scientific literature. A study from 2014 revealed a Neanderthal from Spain who suffered from similar hearing loss, and the remains of a five-year-old archaic human with a severe brain deformity who wasn’t rejected at birth.
Our conceptions of Neanderthals, as this new study shows, has now moved well beyond the outdated notion that they were brutish proto-humans who cowered in caves. As we’re learning, the behavioral differences between Neanderthals and modern humans are, in the words of the researchers, “modest” at best.
[PLOS One]


Using a small robotic sub, scientists from Columbia University have captured rare video of arctic jellyfish slithering along the bottom of the Chukchi Sea near Utqiaġvik, Alaska. The footage came as a complete surprise to the researchers, who weren’t expecting to see jellyfish during the Arctic winter.
The scientists’ research, published in Marine Ecology, shows that a species of large jellyfish known as Chrysaora melanaster is capable of surviving the arctic winter in its adult form, a life stage known as medusae. Prior to these observations, which were made from 2011 to 2014, scientists thought that the under sea conditions were too harsh for adult jellies during the winter months, and that this species could only survive under the arctic ice during its stage as a polyp—a formless blob that releases tiny baby medusae in the spring.

To capture the video, marine biologist Andy Juhl and his colleagues from Columbia University’s Earth Institute set off on snowmobiles from Utqiaġvik Alaska to various locations along the frozen Chukchi Sea. After drilling holes through the four-feet-plus ice, the researchers sent a small underwater vehicle into the frigid waters with a camera. To their amazement, the submersible captured haunting images of the large medusae, some of them dragging their one-foot-long tentacles behind them. The jellies use these tentacles to snatch meals off the seafloor.
Advertisement

The new paper suggests Chrysaora melanaster is capable of living in its adult form throughout the winter months, and possibly even live for years. Juhl now suspects that cold winters are actually really good for jellyfish in the medusae stage; the thick layer of sea ice may acting as a shield, protecting the jellies from turbulent waters. Meanwhile, cold water is lowering their metabolism, allowing the jellies to subsist on very little food. “Life under sea ice is like living in a refrigerator—everything slows down,” said Juhl in a statement, adding that jellyfish blooms may follow one or two years of heavy sea-ice cover because many adults survive.
Indeed, this area of Alaska is subject to dramatic variations in jellyfish numbers each year. Some years there are hardly any, and other years there are so many that fishing nets become inundated with them. The new study could tell us something about the jellyfish population dynamics that drive these cycles. On a more troubling note, warming waters caused by climate change could be bad for the northern jellies, who are benefiting from the cold waters and ice cover (unlike other jellies, who are among the greatest beneficiaries of global warming).
But there’s still one lingering question: Do these jellies sting?
“I don’t know,” said Juhl. “There aren’t that many people around there swimming to find out.”
Correction: A previous version of this article referred to Barrow, Alaska instead of Utqiaġvik, Alaksa, the now legally recognized name of the city.
[Marine Ecology]


Some numbers don’t change. These values are deeply connected to the very fabric of the Universe and our human existence. Until they aren’t, of course. Then we change them—for good reason.
Scientists around the world just recommended changes to four fundamental constants. The tiny updates are important for the most accurate and precise measurements, but will ultimately allow researchers to base standard units, like the kilogram, on things more reliable than a metal weight. The General Council of Weights and Measures will vote on these updates in November 2018, with the proposal being published in the journal Metrologia.
Advertisement

The International System of Units, or SI, still relies on The Grand K—a piece of metal—to define the kilogram. That’s great, except physical things can change over time. Instead, scientists are hoping to update our units such that they’re based on unchanging numbers, the fundamental constants. Doing so, however, requires precise definitions of the fundamental constants.
“I’m happy to see that the definitions are actually simplified considerably and based on fundamental principles of physics,” Peter Mohr, a scientist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) told Gizmodo, “Rather than on artifacts which are subject to the effects of the environment, or wear and tear.”
The four numbers are constants most physics students should be familiar with. The first is h, Planck’s constant, a tiny number that relates the energy of the smallest unit of light, the photon, to its frequency, or color. The second is e, the amount of electric charge in a single proton (or -e, the charge of the electron), not to be confused with the number you used in calculus, also called e. The third is k, the Boltzmann constant, used to relate the temperature of a gas particle to its kinetic energy. The final is NA, the Avogadro constant, the number of molecules a substance needs to make it weigh, in grams, the same as a single molecule would weigh in atomic mass units.
The researchers came to these values by making increasingly precise measurements, some as recently as this year. They agreed upon values that fall within the margin of error of as many measurements as possible, like trying to put a binder ring through a stack of mostly well-aligned hole-punched looseleaf paper.
Sure, the changes will be tiny and (thankfully) won’t require updates to past experimental results. And if you’ve done physics recently, you’ll remember that you usually don’t convert the constant to a number in your answer, you just leave the symbolic representation. But the updates are important. Rather than having to base the constants of the Universe on human-made artifacts, those hoping to make measurements will need to produce standard masses based on the universal constants.
Advertisement

“You can communicate these constants with someone on Mars and they’d be able to replicate the kilogram,” said Mohr. Other constants to be updated based on the fundamental constant updates including the kilogram, the kelvin, and the ampere according to a National Institute of Standards and Technology release.
If and when the updates are approved, these constants would be set for the foreseeable future, said, Mohr...maybe. “I would guess this is the last one for a while but history may prove me wrong.”
[Metrologia via NIST]


The Apple Watch hasn’t exactly been the breakout hit that Apple hoped it would be. Increasingly, though, Apple has been turning its attention to a market where the watch could still hit it big: insurers.
On Monday, CNBC reported that one of the nation’s largest life insurance providers, John Hancock, has partnered with Apple to offer members of its Vitality program an Apple Watch for the cost of a $25 activation fee. The Vitality program is designed to offer perks to policyholders who live healthy lifestyles. The Apple Watch is now one of those perks—as well as one of the way insurers hope policyholders will be encouraged to live healthfully.
Advertisement

This is kind of creepy for a few reasons. Knowing your personal activity stats could encourage you to stay  healthy (though some research has questioned this). But basing benefits on physical activity could inadvertently penalize people who have less time to make it to the gym, like lower-income people or new moms (and participants may wind up having to pay more than the $25 for their watch if they do not meet certain goals). Not to mention that, while you may not realize it, information  like how many steps you have taken in a day can wind up being abused or used against you in the wrong hands.
Court cases now regularly include evidence gleaned from fitness trackers.  In 2014, in a first-of-its-kind case, a Canadian law firm used Fitbit history to assist in proving a client’s personal injury claim. And in 2015, data from a Fitbit was used to undermine a woman’s rape claim. Just this year, a man’s pacemaker put him in prison for arson. Reached for comment, a spokesperson for John Hancock did not respond to a request for specific details on how much policyholder data it would have access to under the program.
“John Hancock is committed to protecting our policyholders’ personal information,” the company said in a statement, linking to its privacy policy, which does not specifically mention the Apple watch and has not been updated since the partnership announcement. “It will only be used in order to conduct business and as permitted or required by law. We will not sell information or share health data with third parties for their marketing purposes.”
It’s a good bet, though, that policyholders will be giving up some amount of otherwise private information collected by that watch.
Google, Apple, and other companies are investing heavily in health tech, hoping that devices like the Apple Watch will not only allow us to track data about our own bodies, but share it with people like doctors. In September, the FDA announced that Apple, Fitbit, Google, and others would all join a pilot program designed to speed the development of such technology.
Privacy watchdogs, though, have already raised red flags about health tracking, casting it as “medical surveillance.” John Hancock may be giving away an Apple Watch for cheap, but it’s possible its policy holders will be giving away a lot more that that.
[CNBC]


An international team of researchers has uncovered tell-tale signs of Alzheimer’s disease in dolphins, marking the first time that the age-related disorder has been detected in a wild animal.
Until very recently, scientists thought that only humans were susceptible to Alzheimer’s disease. That changed back in August of this year when researchers from Kent State University detected traces of the disease in chimps, or at least, the brains of chimps who died from natural causes at zoos and research centers. A new study published this week in Alzheimer’s & Dementia is now the first to find two key markers of the disease—protein plaques and tangles—in a wild animal, namely dolphins. This latest finding is further evidence that Alzheimer’s is not a human-specific disease, and that other animals can be used to study the dreaded condition.
Advertisement

Most animals die very shortly after the end of their fertile years, but dolphins and orca whales, like humans, tend to live past their reproductive years (cool fact: female orca whales go through menopause). This got Oxford University scientist Simon Lovestone wondering: Are dolphins, as a result of their long lives, susceptible to age-related neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer’s? To find out, he and his colleagues studied the brains of dolphins who had died naturally in the wild and whose bodies washed ashore along the Spanish coast.
The researchers found plaques of a protein called beta amyloid, along with the tangles of another protein called tau. Together, these proteins are the smoking guns of Alzheimer’s disease in humans. In healthy brains, amyloid beta breaks down and goes away, but for people with Alzheimer’s, this protein lingers, resulting in the formation of plaques between neurons. These plaques subsequently set another process in motion, whereby tau forms tangles that destabilize brain cells. Together, these two neurological disruptions produce dementia.
Importantly, this study doesn’t tell us how the dolphins may be affected by their specific version of the disease, or whether they suffer from any associated memory loss or confusion. We won’t know until we perform behavioral tests on captive dolphins—something the researchers do not advocate.
That said, the discovery points to potential causes of the disease, with altered insulin function being a common denominator. Insulin regulates the levels of sugar in the blood, setting off a complex chemical cascade known as insulin signaling. Changes in insulin signaling can cause diabetes in humans and other mammals. At the same time, however, extreme caloric restriction also affects insulin signaling, extending the lifespans of certain animals by significant amounts. In some animals, such as fruit flies and mice, caloric restriction can extend life by up to three times.
‘We think that in humans, the insulin signalling has evolved to work in a way similar to that artificially produced by giving a mouse very few calories,” said Lovestone in a statement. “That has the effect of prolonging lifespan beyond the fertile years, but it also leaves us open to diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease.”
Previously, scientists had shown that insulin resistance predicts the development of Alzheimer’s in humans, and people with diabetes are more likely to develop Alzheimer’s.
Advertisement

“But our study suggests that dolphins and orcas (who also have a long post fertility life span) are similar to humans in many ways; they have an insulin signalling system that makes them an interesting model of diabetes, and now we have shown that dolphin brains show signs of Alzheimer’s identical to those seen in people,” said Lovestone.
So while it sucks that dolphins are susceptible to Alzheimer’s, the good news is that we now have a new “model” for the disease. Future comparative analyses of dolphin and human brains with Alzheimer’s will tease out the various factors responsible for the disease, which will hopefully lead to new treatments.
[Alzheimer’s & Dementia]


We live in a universe filled with weird stuff that we don’t really understand: dark matter. Physicists have observed its spooky effects but have’t seen it directly. Even scarier: There seems to be around six times as much dark matter in the universe as regular matter.
Tonight, we’ll be broadcasting a discussion on this mysterious substance over Facebook live at 7:00 pm ET from the Gizmodo office. Joining me will be three prominent physicists: Elena Aprile, founder of the XENON dark matter experiment from Columbia University, James Beacham, physicist at the Large Hadron Collider, and Priya Natarajan, astrophysicist at Yale University. We’ll begin taking Facebook live questions beginning at 7:45 pm ET. Come back here once the event starts and we’ll drop the link in this post.
Advertisement

So what is dark matter? As far as we can tell, it’s some strange amount of mass that can interact with gravity but not with the other forces of nature, like electromagnetism. We can’t see it directly, but we’ve observed the way it warps the light of distant galaxies and causes them to rotate faster than they probably should. Experimental and theoretical physicists spend a whole lot of time and have built a whole lot of experiments to try and figure out what the heck it is.
We’re hosting the event as part of Dark Matter Day, which officially takes place on Halloween. Physics communicators around the globe are hosting events to celebrate the mysteries of dark matter with the public. Check out the Dark Matter Day events list for an event near you.
SpoOoOoOoky!!!
Watch the discussion below



Did you know a cheap red laser pointer is good for more than just annoying people at a movie theater? As YouTube’s Styropyro, aka Drake Anthony, demonstrates, by focusing the beam you can actually use it to lift and levitate tiny specs of diamond dust, similar to how Star Trek’s tractor beams seemingly work.
The science behind this experiment earned physicist Steven Chu the Nobel Prize in Physics back in 1997, but you don’t need a dedicated Stanford research lab to try it yourself. You just need roughly $20 in parts, including a lens to focus the laser diode, and a room without any air currents because the focused beam of light doesn’t have the strongest grasp on the particles it traps.

So how does a beam of light, you can’t really feel, lift an object? Anthony does a good job explaining the science in his video, but it’s an effect called Optical levitation where the momentum of photons is transferred to an object, trapping it in a beam of light. The object has to be incredibly small, less than 50 micrometers in diameter, for the experiment to work, which means that you unfortunately won’t be trapping any passing spaceships by pointing your laser pointer towards the stars.
[YouTube]


Profuse sweating can lead to embarrassing pit stains and discomfort, sure. But you are sweating sweat. This Italian patient sweats blood.
The 21-year-old patient entered a medical ward following three years of bleeding from her palms and face. She didn’t have any cuts and nothing seemed to cause or trigger her bleeding episodes. Her condition was so bad that she’d isolated herself and developed symptoms consistent with depression and panic disorder.
Advertisement

After observing the patient and treating her for her depression and anxiety, the Florentine doctors diagnosed the patient with “hematohidrosis,” the rare condition of “blood sweat.” But even to this day, doctors don’t know what causes the condition—and some are skeptical as to its existence. An analysis of the patient’s skin turned up nothing abnormal, as the researchers reported in the Canadian Medical Association Journal.
There’s a long history of blood sweat diagnoses, according to a CMAJ commentary. Mention of blood sweat occurs as far back as Aristotle in the third century, B.C., and throughout the Middle Ages. The condition has religious undertones given its association with a religious relic called the Veil of Veronica, a cloth imprinted with Jesus’ face. Still, the commentary continues, a 2012 dermatology textbook said the disorder “has not been confirmed scientifically,” though the authors of that text didn’t deny its existence.
Michelle Sholzberg, hematologist at St. Michael’s Hospital in Toronto, told the CBC the case was “most unusual.”
The author of the commentary, medical historian Jacalyn Duffin from Queen’s University in Ontario, reviewed 42 medical articles on the condition since 1880. She noticed that almost half of those articles were from the last five years, yet many still doubt the condition’s existence. “Ironically, for an increasingly secular world, the long-standing association of hematohidrosis with religious mystery may make its existence harder to accept,” she wrote.
The Italian scientists ultimately opted to treat their patient with a beta blocker (and proposed moral enhancer) called propranolol, since others had treated patients similarly in the past. This worked, but it didn’t stop the bleeding completely.
On days like this I consider myself very lucky.
[CMAJ via CBC]


You might not want anyone to read the work you put together as a university student—I sure don’t. But we’re not Stephen Hawking, world-famous physicist, whose Ph.D thesis you can now read for free online.
The University of Cambridge has made Hawking’s work, “Properties of Expanding Universes,” free for anyone, given extraordinary demand. After all, it’s the most requested item in their online Open Access repository, according to a news release. Hawking told Cambridge that he made the decision hoping to “inspire people around the world to look up at the stars and not down at their feet.”
Advertisement

People seem to like this Stephen Hawking guy. His book, A Brief History of Time, has sold ten million copies. He’s made pop culture appearances far and wide, from The Big Bang Theory to The Simpsons. He’s the subject of the Oscar-winning film, The Theory of Everything. But he’s known in science for exploring more esoteric topics in physics. Perhaps his most famous idea is “Hawking radiation,” the theory that links the mathematics of gravity with quantum physics to conclude that black holes evaporate by spitting out particles from their surface.
The thesis discusses some of the most talked-about points in physics, specifically the “implications and consequences of the expansion of the universe.” Such expansion causes difficulties to one theory of gravitation and has implications for how gravity radiates through the universe, moving its energy along as waves. It also describes the inevitability of singularities, regions of infinite density and zero volume found in the centers of black holes or the start of the universe.
These ideas continue to spark debate. Meanwhile, Hawking himself, at 75 years old, is still a living public figure despite his 50-year-log struggle with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (“Lou Gehrig’s Disease” or ALS), a disease whose victims rarely survive a decade.
The news release comes alongside increasing interest in the Open Access movement, allowing us to access published science papers for free. Open Access hasn’t been without controversy as shady scientific journals have attempted to game the system to make a quick buck. Cambridge  encourages its students to make their Ph.Ds open access when they deposit it online, according to the release.
So, if you’ve got some free time, enjoy the light reading of a preeminent physicist’s 120-page Ph.D thesis.
[Cambridge]
Update 12:ooPM: The BBC reports that Cambridge’s download website has been crashing intermittently due to the heavy traffic, lol. At least 30,000 have tried to download the PDF. Honestly, I preferred Hawking’s later stuff.


There was a time not so long ago when, for fun, or just for something to do, millions of Americans would tune in to watch non-actors eat worms for cash. It felt good, watching strangers wreck their intestines. Things might not have been going your way, but at least you weren’t competitively chewing cockroaches on primetime television.
In a sense the appeal of a show like Fear Factor was nostalgia—nostalgia, maybe, for the last iteration of our species, the one not yet trained, through wide-scale trial-and-error, to avoid eating mold, feces, etc.
Advertisement

But what did that process of trial-and-error look like? And where did it land us? In other words: Which taste, at this stage of the evolutionary game, do we find most disgusting? Most of us, happily eating our for-the-most-part non-revolting salads and panini, have no reason, or desire, to think that one over—which is why, for this week’s Giz Asks, we’ve corralled a host of taste experts to do it for you. As it turns out, “disgust” is relative—yet another of the half-million interlocking social constructs which impede our desires, enrich various wealthy profiteers and, in this particular instance, prevent us from dining on diseased rat carcasses.
Director of the University of Pennsylvania Smell and Taste Center
Disgust is a complicated issue in regards to taste.  First, most tastes are actually smells.  Taste buds only signify sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and savory (umami).  We have many more bitter receptors than sweet or other types of receptors, presumably because poisons are often bitter alkaloids.  However, when a “disgusting” agent is put into the mouth, molecules reach the olfactory receptors via the nasal pharynx retronasally.  This is why coffee  or chocolate have no taste when you hold your nose shut.  This blocks airflow from the oral cavity to the receptors.
Concentration often is involved, with agents smelling or tasting fine at low concentrations but unpleasant at high concentrations.  Context is also involved (skunk-like mercaptans can be pleasant at low concentrations but unpleasant at high concentrations, particularly if one is not told it is the odor of a skunk).  Some dog anal sac secretions smell like limburger cheese.  If you were told the odor was that of limburger cheese you would find it less disgusting than if you were told it came from the anal sacs of a beagle.  Although perhaps not the most disgusting of all odors, pyridine was described by one subject in our lab as smelling like “puke in a urinal at a carnival”.  I think most would find this a bit disgusting.  The psychological responses of people to dog anal sac secretions, however, trumps pyridine in my experience.
Professor of Language, Communication and Cultural Cognition, Center for Language Studies, Radboud University Nijmegen
The idea of tasting someone else’s vomit or feces is likely universally disgusting. Generally, however, one person’s disgusting is another’s delicacy. The French and Dutch eat horses; but for most Americans the idea of putting horsemeat in their mouths is gross. Then consider the average American eats over 50 pounds of beef per year. Why would you ever eat something sacred that provides nourishing milk? The thought horrifies Hindus. Traditionally many Europeans eat pigs, but for the 1.5 billion Muslims in the world today, this is unthinkable. The list goes on. From coagulated blood, to caterpillars, sheep brains, tuna eyes, or baboon hands: somewhere it’s a treat; elsewhere it’s stomach-churning.
Perhaps we can find the most disgusting taste if we can test people before they become enculturated. Examining infants’ preferences provides interesting insight. Babies prefer sweet, salty, and umami tastes over bitter ones; and they avert their heads, wrinkling their noses, when presented with fish, garlic or rotten odors. However, should their mothers be avid garlic eaters, then garlic odors are no longer aversive to the baby. During pregnancy, the mother imparts the flavors she is imbibing via amniotic fluid to the baby. So babies already begin developing flavor preferences before being exposed to solid foods. Early exposure is so critical that it can literally make the rotten tasty. The Chukchi and Yupik peoples who traditionally lived in the Bering Strait region of Russia and Alaska ate food whose smell would make your eyes water. They would bury whole fish or tight rolls of walrus meat and fat into the ground and let it age and ferment for months, before eating. During the Soviet-era small settlements of indigenous communities were fused into larger culturally diverse communities, and during this time people abandoned these traditional foods. Then in the post-Soviet era, some people tried to go back to their traditional ways, but the foods that were so “tastily rotten” before were no longer such a treat. Without the early exposure to the pungent aromas, people found them inedible.
So what is disgusting to taste is as much about our culture, context, and upbringing as anything else.
Rachel Herz, is a cognitive neuroscientist on the faculty of Brown University and Boston College.  She is in an expert in the senses and emotions that guide food perception and the author of The Scent of Desire, That’s Disgusting, and a new book Why You Eat What You Eat.
The most disgusting taste is bitterness.  From an ecological and evolutionary perspective, being repulsed by the taste of bitter helps to keep us alive as things that taste bitter are high in alkaloids (pH greater than 7) which tend to be poisonous.
Everyone finds the taste of a lemon peel bitter but how difficult it is for you to eat it depends on the genetics that determine the number of taste buds you have.  Supertasters have many more taste buds than non-tasters and everything taste more intense to them, especially bitter.  If you can’t abide endive and Brussel sprouts you’re probably a supertaster and if you tend to order them as sides you’re likely a non-taster. Interestingly, how sensitive you are to bitter also influences your emotional reactions.  Supertasters are less tolerant of pain and more easily angered and disgusted than non-tasters are, but non-tasters tend to score higher on traits that are associated with a psychopathic personality.  A tantalizing corollary is that criminal psychopaths are much worse at recognizing the facial expression of disgust than any other emotion and also worse at it than other violent but non-psychopathic offenders.  The hypothetical take home message—if you want to watch a gory horror movie with a friend invite the one who eats endive raw, but if you need someone to take you to the hospital you may want to call the friend who won’t eat kale.
Emeritus Professor, Cardiff University
Generally things taste disgusting because they are harmful or poisonous.  But there is another quite different and personal aspect to disgust, involving conditioned association. If a food is eaten before or during a really negative experience it can become disgusting to us. For example, people having surgery or chemotherapy are often given a surrogate meal before the start of the process. This is because we can associate the pain, discomfort or sickness with the last meal we had so it is best not to have your favorite dish under such circumstances.
I had spam fritters once as a kid when I was coming down with flu’. There wasn’t a causal connection but my brain determined there was and forever after I’ve hated spam (which is actually pretty disgusting anyway).
Professor of Psychology at Brandeis University who teaches behavioral neuroscience and studies what makes foods taste good or bad
Among neuroscientists, there is general agreement that there are only five tastes, of which only one is truly disgusting—bitterness. It stands to reason, therefore, that the bitterest available taste will turn out to be the most disgusting thing that you can (accidentally) put in your mouth.
I’d offer a specific recommendation…but if readers were to sample that recommendation, Gizmodo would find itself in a perilous legal situation. Bitterness, you see, fills us with disgust specifically because many naturally-occurring toxins are bitter. Thanks to evolution, critters that find bitter foods maximally disgusting are critters that survive, and therefore the most disgusting taste will be the taste that you taste once and then die.
Of course, despite what we scientists tell you, you know that there are many more than five flavors out there. Most of us can name five foods that are disgusting despite not being bitter, as well as bitter substances that we consider the opposite of disgusting; many people so love bitter coffee, in fact, that they will cast violent aspersions upon anyone who dares diffuse that bitterness with sugar. Where does this leave our search for the most disgusting taste?
The plurality of tastes reflects the mixing of multiple ingredients in any foodstuff, and the involvement of other senses in flavor perception (if you don’t think that smell and vision are important to flavor, try telling different Skittles™ apart without using either). The fact that one person’s dietary staple might be disgusting to someone else, meanwhile, reflects the experience-dependence of taste. Most animals are endowed with a mechanism, well known to over-indulging college Freshmen, that renders a non-bitter taste un-consumable, if that taste has proven toxic. My lifelong hatred of coconut stems from a Bad Birthday Cake Vomit Experience had when I was five years old.
This process works in reverse as well—foods that inspire feelings of well-being become favored, even if bitter. Teens learn to like beer and coffee because cool and/or sexually desirable peers like beer and coffee. Preferred bitter greens improve health. Licorice to the Dutch, vegemite to the Australian, natto to the Japanese; all substances that are disgusting to most, but rendered tasty by cultural acceptance.
And so what food “wins?” When you bring all of these factors together, what emerges as the worst-tasting foodstuff in the world?
It’s coconut. Trust me. It’s just nasty.
Do you have a burning question for Giz Asks? Email us at tipbox@gizmodo.com.


Here’s yet another sign that in the age of President Donald Trump and Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt, the foxes are feasting in the coop. According to a report in the New York Times on Saturday, former George W. Bush administration official Dr. Nancy Beck has returned from a stretch with chemical manufacturer lobbying group the American Chemistry Council to serve as a top deputy in the EPA’s toxic chemical unit.
In a confidential memo obtained by the paper, acting Office of Water assistant administrator Michael Shapiro warned Beck’s changes to how the agency tracks the health impacts of toxic perfluorooctanoic acid, which has been linked to a number of serious health conditions like cancer and birth defects, could result in “underestimation of the potential risks to human health and the environment.” It’s part of a pattern at the agency under Pruitt’s tenure; in the past few months, the EPA has backed away from bans of the pesticide chlorpyrifos, paint stripper ingredient methylene chloride, and degreasing and dry cleaning chemical trichloroethylene, all of which have been linked to serious health problems.
Advertisement

During the Bush years, the Times noted, Beck drew criticism from some coworkers who believed she was more interested in rolling back regulatory requirements for industry than maintaining a cautious approach to public safety. She became “so aggressive in second-guessing EPA scientists” that she was called to testify before the House Committee on Science and Technology, which concluded she had slowed efforts to protect drinking water supplies from rocket fuel ingredient perchlorate. Beck eventually was forced out during the first term of the Barack Obama administration.
Beck returned to the EPA in May 2017 after receiving a waiver allowing her to work for the agency despite her recent lobbying career. When the time came for the agency to implement a bipartisan overhaul of the Toxic Substances Control Act passed in the last year of the Obama administration, the Times wrote, she pressed for industry-friendly changes that undermined the whole program:
Dr. Beck then spent her first weeks on the job pressing agency staff to rewrite the standards to reflect, in some cases, word for word, the chemical industry’s proposed changes, three staff members involved in the effort said.
Specific changes Beck pushed for included strictly defining terms like “best available science” or “weight of the evidence,” which could lead to legal challenges of EPA regulations, or limiting EPA evaluation of chemicals to “intended” rather than “all” uses. Beck appears to have been remarkably successful with these efforts, and has even brought on other ACC veterans like toxicologist Michael L. Dourson.
When the Times asked for more information about the decisions, EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman—yet another American Chemistry Council alumni—shot back, “No matter how much information we give you, you would never write a fair article. The only thing inappropriate and biased is your continued fixation on writing elitist clickbait trying to attack qualified professionals committed to serving their country.”
In the age of Trump, top scientific posts all across the federal government have been going to dubiously qualified people or industry-friendly lobbyists, while career federal science personnel have been choosing to pursue other opportunities. Over at the Department of Agriculture, for example, the White House picked a former right-wing talk show host and climate change denier to serve as the agency’s chief scientist; around the same time, USDA scientists were told to avoid discussing climate change. Trump’s NOAA has disbanded climate change advisory committees, his proposed NASA administrator struggles to understand basic planetary sciences, and science staff from the State Department to White House bureaus have been making rapid exits.
All of this is happening very visibly. But the average person can’t really see toxic chemical-laced drinking water. All they can do is get very sick from it, sometimes a decade or more down the road, probably long after Pruitt and crew have made their exit to a cushy retirement.
[New York Times]


Georgia State Rep. Betty Price—spouse of former Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, who recently left his role in Donald Trump’s administration after taking a few too many taxpayer-funded charter flights—casually asked a state epidemiologist whether it would be more cost-effective to just force HIV-positive people into quarantine.
Per the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Price’s phrasing left open the possibility she’s not thrilled HIV-positive people are not dying “more readily,” at which point they would pose less of a risk.
Advertisement

“And I don’t want to say the quarantine word, but I guess I just said it,” Price asked Georgia state Department of Public Health HIV epidemiology chief Dr. Pascale Wortley at a study committee meeting this week. “Is there an ability, since I would guess that public dollars are expended heavily in prophylaxis and treatment of this condition?”
“So we have a public interest in curtailing the spread,” Price continued. “What would you advise or are there any methods legally that we could do that would curtail the spread?”
Not one to slow down, Price added, “It seems to me it’s almost frightening, the number of people who are living that are potentially carriers. Well they are carriers, with the potential to spread, whereas in the past they died more readily and then at that point they are not posing a risk. So we’ve got a huge population posing a risk if they are not in treatment.”
Wortley, who had just explained HIV treatments as well as routine medical care remain out of reach for many Georgians, responded that the state was already attempting to track the spread of the virus and get more people into care. The AJC reported Georgia has the second-highest rate of HIV infection in the US at 28.3 per 100,000 population in 2015, and just half are virally suppressed.
Aside from the obvious moral implications—Price was more or less suggesting rounding up the disproportionately LGBTQ HIV-positive population—there’s also the fact that this awful solution would never work. Quarantines are only advised for diseases that can be easily identified, progress quickly and are contagious enough via transmission methods like casual physical contact or the air to pose a risk to the general public, none of which really apply to HIV.
Both of the Prices are physicians, and should presumably be aware of this.
The history of epidemiology is also littered with quarantine horror stories, and fears that authorities could use quarantines as a pretext to put LGBTQ people in camps are still relevant today.
Advertisement

Tom Price’s selection as HHS secretary drew alarm from progressive groups, which pointed out his noxious record on gay rights is staunchly conservative, and that his efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and limit coverage of reproductive health services could harm LGBTQ communities and reduce access to HIV treatment.
“We need to emphasize that in this day and age, quarantining is not a useful strategy to control HIV,” Emory Center for AIDS Research co-director Dr. Carlos del Rio told STAT, adding he believed Price’s intent was misinformed rather than malicious.
“We need to get public health [workers] to find people, get them into care, keep them in care, and keep them virally suppressed,” he added. “If we can keep them virally suppressed, we can stop the epidemic.”
Advertisement

“When we come into spaces like this and we hear questions around how legally far can we go to isolate people or even quarantine people, then it just lets you know that we have a real uphill battle,” SisterLove executive director Dazon Dixon Diallo told Project Q Atlanta.
In a response released to the AJC, Price seemingly did not apologize and said her remarks were taken out of context:
I made a provocative and rhetorical comment as part of a free-flowing conversation which has been taken completely out of context. I do not support a quarantine in this public health challenge and dilemma of undertreated HIV patients. I do, however, wish to light a fire under all of us with responsibility in the public health arena - a fire that will result in resolve and commitment to ensure that all of our fellow citizens with HIV will receive, and adhere to, a treatment regimen that will enhance their quality of life and protect the health of the public.
Gizmodo has reached out to Price’s office for comment, and we’ll update this article if we hear back.
[Atlanta Journal-Constitution/Project Q Atlanta]


The Earth is once again passing through the debris left behind by Halley’s Comet, producing the Orionid meteors that peak this weekend. Go outside! Look at space!
The Orionids produce a shower annually, peaking at around 20 to 25 meteors per hour. As with all meteor showers, they’re named for the constellation they appear to stem from in the sky, Orion in this case (or more accurately, on the border of Orion and Gemini. You should care because space is great.
Advertisement

Meteoroids are pebble-sized bits of space debris that become meteors when they flash as they enter the Earth’s atmosphere. They can streak across the sky with average speeds around 150,000 mph according to Space.com. They’re called meteorites once they hit the ground.
As with any shower, it’s best to look a little further away from Orion—this will make the meteors you do manage to spot look longer.

Meteors in a shower all originate from the same place in the sky and generally fall parallel to one another. It’s sort of like sitting in the middle of a set of parallel stripes converging far away—distances look differently depending on which stripe you look at. As for Halley’s comet, that iconic chunk of ice and rock won’t be visiting Earth again until 2061.
If you head out late at night, the Moon should have set before the best part of the show—generally between midnight and sunrise, according to the American Meteor Society. If you don’t feel like going outside or it’s cloudy, the Slooh online telescope will be broadcasting it (you have to register).
Space!!!
[American Meteor Society, SPACE.com]


The promise of gene therapy has the potential to drastically limit the impact of human disease by altering the make-up of the body’s cells to fight back against deadly invaders. If used recreationally, though, gene therapy could also expand the physical limits of human strength and endurance. Like high-tech steroids, gene therapies could one day be a new way for athletes to dope.
Hoping to preemptively limit the consequences of the rapidly advancing field of genetic engineering in sports, the World Anti-Doping Agency officially added genetic engineering to its black list of banned substances and methods earlier this month. Beginning next year, the updated list will include “gene editing agents designed to alter genome sequences and/or the transcriptional or epigenetic regulation of gene expression.”
Advertisement

“Gene editing technology has advanced impressively in recent years,” WADA, an independent international agency which influences  anti-doping polices at the Olympics and in nations around the world, told Gizmodo in a statement. “This has prompted WADA to evaluate possible misuses of gene editing for doping and as a consequence, has included these technologies in the definition of Gene Doping.”
For years, researchers and sports officials have been asking questions about how advancing science might impact sport. It makes sense. Already advances in technology are relied upon to help give athletes a millisecond edge over their competitors. Sometimes that technology is biomedical in nature. The NBA’s Golden State Warriors, for example, have been known to rely on possibly psuedoscientific brain-zapping to give them an edge.
There have been no confirmed accounts of gene doping so far in sports, but the possibility has long been on WADA’s radar. In 2003, the agency officially banned “gene doping.” The update expands that ban to include any form of gene editing, crushing the possibility of any justified use of such medical technologies in sports, even if they one day become more commonplace in other areas of life.
“Despite sensational and scientifically unfounded claims occasionally seen in the media, WADA is not presently aware of any athletes who are gene doping,” the agency said via email. “Nevertheless we want to be ahead of the game and make it clear that when or if such techniques as gene editing would be used to enhance performance beyond a return to normal function, then it would be prohibited.”
It is unclear, however, how WADA would enforce such rules. For more than a decade, the agency began looking for a way to detect gene doping among athletes. Last year, the International Olympic Committee announced that athletes competing in Rio would be tested for added copies of a gene that produces a hormone called EPO that stimulates red blood cell production to increase endurance. No results have been announced, but such small tweaks could be hard to detect.
The agency declined to provide details on how it planned to enforce the new rules.
Advertisement

“At present, WADA is closely following developments in this area to define the best technique for the detection of gene editing if and when it were to be used as a doping method,” the agency said.


Some dog owners claim to be able to read the face of their cuddly canine like a book, but  it’s completely possible they’re just projecting. New research suggests it’s not just their imagination, and that dogs really do switch on the puppy eyes —but only in the presence of a captive audience.
Research published in Scientific Reports shows that dogs make facial expressions in the presence of humans, and that it’s not something dogs do simply because they’re excited. In experiments conducted by researchers from the University of Portsmouth’s Dog Cognition Center, dogs oriented their faces in response to human attention, while exhibiting significantly fewer facial movements when presented with a doggie treat. The finding suggests that dogs use facial expressions to communicate with humans—a trait that may have emerged as a result of domestication.
Advertisement

And indeed, the most common facial expression observed in the experiment was the so-called “puppy dog eyes.” That’s the patented look where a dog, in order to make itself look all-the-more adorable, will raise its eyebrows and make its eyes look bigger. The extended tongue was another cutesy pose observed in the study.
For the experiment, the researchers tested two-dozen dogs of various breeds, all family pets, and ranging in age from one to 12 years old. Each dog was tied to a lead and placed about a meter away from a person (the stimulus). The dogs’ facial expressions were filmed by DogFACS, a coding system that measures the tiniest movements in facial expressions.
“We presented dogs with an experimental situation in which a human demonstrator was either attending to them or turned away, and varied whether she presented food or not,” the authors wrote in the study. “Dogs produced significantly more facial movements when the human was attentive than when she was not. The food, however, as a non-social but arousing stimulus, did not affect the dogs’ behaviour.”
“The findings appear to support evidence [that] dogs are sensitive to humans’ attention and that expressions are potentially active attempts to communicate, not simple emotional displays,” explained lead author Juliane Kaminski in a statement. Other mammals are known to make facial expressions, but this is the first evidence to show that dogs do it as a form of communication.
In many ways, dogs appear and behave more like wolf puppies than wolf adults. Scientists have…
It’s possible that dogs acquired this capacity as a result of our 15,000-year-old symbiotic relationship. We may have actually bred this capacity into them, either deliberately or unconsciously. And in fact, a 2013 study showed that prospective dog owners were more likely to choose a dog with juvenile facial characteristics (i.e. pedomorphic facial expressions) than “older” looking dogs. That said, it’s also possible that dogs have retained their ability to make facial expressions since their days as wild animals. A comparative analysis with modern wolves would seem to be in order.
Advertisement

Further, this study doesn’t tell us if dogs are voluntarily or unconsciously altering their faces in response to human attention. It could be a direct attempt to communicate, or it could be an instinctive reaction when in the presence of an attentive human. It also doesn’t mean that dogs are capable of understanding or empathizing with a person’s emotional state. We know that dogs can smell fear in a human (and then get scared, too), so it’s possible that they can, but further evidence will be required to suss this out.
In the meantime, enjoy that puppy dog look, and know it’s probably meant for you.
[Scientific Reports]


“Glass is an amorphous solid that flows like a liquid,” you’d probably say if you were asked to define the stuff. Is that true, though? What if I told you, for example, that the old myth, that old windows are thicker at the bottom because the glass has flowed a little bit, was false? Glass is an incredibly complex physical idea that avoids easy definition.
A pair of scientists is hoping to re-define what a “glass” is, so students can better understand what’s going on with this strange state of matter. Others aren’t sure if they’re ready to accept a be-all, end-all definition. But one thing is for sure: Glass isn’t a “solid” or a “liquid” in the way you might think.
Advertisement

“It combines features of solids and liquids,” paper author John Mauro, Penn State scientist and inventor of Gorilla Glass for Corning Incorporated told Gizmodo. “We proposed a new definition of glass to accurately capture both features.”
Mauro and Edgar Zanotto from the Federal University of São Carlo in Brazil propose a simple, official definition as follows: “Glass is a nonequilibrium, non-crystalline state of matter that appears solid on a short time scale but continuously relaxes towards the liquid state.” At the more advanced level, they suggest “Glass is a nonequilibrium, non-crystalline condensed state of matter that exhibits a glass transition. The structure of glasses is similar to that of their parent supercooled liquids (SCL), and they spontaneously relax toward the SCL state. Their ultimate fate is to solidify, i.e., crystallize.” They recently published their explanation in the Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids.
The identity crisis begins with the fact that no matter how solid-seeming it is, glass always “relaxes,” moving towards a state of supercooled liquid. These are liquids that have been cooled below their freezing points but are not allowed to arrange themselves into regular crystalline patterns. Some researchers consider glasses supercooled liquids because they, too, flow (incredibly slowly) and don’t have regular crystalline structures. But there’s still a poorly-defined temperature—the glass transition temperature—at which glass becomes softer and some of its innate properties change. Glass also stores more built-in energy than a supercooled liquid at the same temperature.
The key difference between a glass and other amorphous solids is the presence of this glass transition temperature, one where the properties noticeably change from a glass to a supercooled liquid. Other amorphous solids don’t have that.
Think of a theater full of randomly placed humans. Everyone is told to grab the hands of someone nearby if they want, regardless of the seats. That’s a glass—but it’s a real mess and would be much easier if everyone was holding their neighbor’s hands in the seat next to them. Someone begins to turn the thermostat up, and everyone is instructed that they’re allowed to let go and take on a more comfortable hand-holding arrangement when they start to feel warm. The glass transition temperature is just some best-fit temperature to describe when people have really started letting go of and re-grabbing someone else’s hand—during that time, it’s a supercooled liquid. There’s a “glass transition time,” which is just how long it takes to reach that transition temperature.
The glass researchers would then stop observing, but the assumption is that in all cases, eventually, everyone is holding their neighbor’s hand and the solid becomes a crystal.
Advertisement

Ultimately the researchers’ definition is meant to capture all of that, and they posit that prior definitions haven’t quite done so. One researcher, Richard Brow at the Missouri University of Science & Technology, told Gizmodo the article was “great” and had no problems with its science. He still felt the researchers veered a little too close to calling glass a liquid, given just how solid it really is. The amount of flow is incredibly slow—cathedral windows are thicker at the bottom because they’re heavier at the bottom and were installed that way, for example. Glass’s flow requires billions of years to move just a few nanometers, explained Brow. Essentially, some things just evade definition, and glass is one of those things. “Unless your definition is four pages long, it can be misinterpreted. That’s where I come from.”
So, there’s a new definition of glass in town—but as a reminder, there is still a whole lot that scientists don’t know about glass and what it is. It’s a little too complex in its behavior to be easily and correctly captured by a high school chemistry textbook. And it’s getting glass scientists talking.
“It’s created debate in the community,” said Mauro. “People appreciate the chance of discussing it.”
[Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids]
Correction: The article originally misspelled Richard Brow’s name. It has now been corrected and the writer regrets the error.


Evolution works very slowly—except when it doesn’t. New research shows that certain British birds appear to be changing quickly as result of bird feeders, evolving longer beaks to help them access the food inside.
Many years ago, the late evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay Gould proposed a concept he called “punctuated equilibrium,” in which species undergo rapid bursts of evolution in reaction to a sudden environmental change. And to that point: Research published today in Science suggests that populations of great tits (Parus major) are in the midst of a punctuated equilibrium phase thanks to the relatively recent introduction of backyard feeders. Specifically, the birds are evolving longer beaks, which helps them access food, and in turn boosts their chances of reproducing and passing this fortuitous trait down to the next generation. It’s classic Darwinian natural selection in action—but at an accelerated pace.
Advertisement

The new research, led by the University of Oxford’s Department of Zoology, is part of a long term study of populations of great tits (Parus major) in the UK’s Wytham Woods and in Oosterhout and Veluwe, in the Netherlands. Oxford University has been studying the Wytham Woods great tit population for over 70 years.
For the study, the researchers scanned the DNA of more than 3,000 birds in an effort to find genetic differences between the British and Dutch populations. The analysis revealed altered gene sequences linked to facial features, leading the researchers to speculate that the beaks of great tits were adapting to the widespread use of bird feeders.
To see if this might be the case, the researchers took a gander at the rich historical record, and it showed that the British version of the great tit has a beak that appears to be getting longer over time. Further, they had access to data from electronic tags that were fitted to some of the Wytham Woods birds, allowing the researchers to track how often these birds were frequenting bird feeders. As expected, birds with genetic markers for longer beaks visited bird feeders more regularly than birds without the genetic variation.
“Between the 1970s and the present day, beak length has got longer among the British birds. That’s a really short time period in which to see this sort of difference emerging,’ said Jon Slate, a co-author of the new study and a professor at the University of Sheffield, in a statement. “We now know that this increase in beak length, and the difference in beak length between birds in Britain and mainland Europe, is down to genes that have evolved by natural selection.”
In the United Kingdom, Britons spend about twice as much on birdseed and bird feeders than the folks in mainland Europe—and they’ve been engaging in this backyard activity for quite some time.
Advertisement

“In fact, at the start of the 20th century, Punch magazine described bird feeding as a British national pastime,’ said study co-author Lewis Spurgin, of the School of Biological Sciences at the University of East Anglia (UEA). “Although we can’t say definitively that bird feeders are responsible, it seems reasonable to suggest that the longer beaks amongst British great tits may have evolved as a response to this supplementary feeding.”
The researchers also discovered that birds with the long-beak genetic variants were better at reproducing than their short-beaked counterparts. From a “survival of the fittest” standpoint, this suggests that the newly acquired trait is a fortuitous one—one that’s leading these birds down a new evolutionary path. Given enough time, and assuming Britons don’t alter their bird feeding habits, this could eventually result in the emergence of an entirely new subspecies of great tit, an evolutionary process that biologists refer to as speciation.
The avenues for future research are obvious, and the researchers have already begun to look at the DNA of other great tit populations in Europe. Early results show that the emerging long-beak genetic variant is exclusive to the UK. Other researchers in other parts of the world should take note and embark on similar studies to see if similar things are happening to birds elsewhere.
If you’re like me, your brain is so riddled with cat virus that you never want to hear anything…
As a final note, bird feeders may make it easier for birds to find food, but it also makes it easier for cats to find birds. If you’re a cat owner, you should probably keep them away from backyard feeders.
[Science]


No one said that monsters needed to be big or even scary. But when James Dwight Dana first spotted one strange plankton species back in the 19th century, he knew he had something weird on his hands. “Little monster,” Monstrilla seemed like as good a name as any. After all, scientists can name species after pretty much anything, even penises.
A 2014 expedition to the Arctic revealed a whole new species of these little monsters hanging out beneath the ice. The researchers named it Monstrillopsis planifrons, essentially “little monster with a flat head.” Research like this shows just how much more there is to learn about the vast Arctic.
Advertisement

“As a result, local and regional [species] lists are expected to grow as the exploration of under-sampled regions continues,” first author Aurélie Delaforge writes in the paper, published this week in the journal ZooKeys.
Why should you be excited about plankton? Well, they’re the bottom of the food chain. Maybe you think that makes them unimportant...or they’re the most important animals in the ocean. You probably don’t think much about the individual kinds of plankton, though.
M. planifrons is a strange looking miniature crustacean, only a few millimeters long, like a one-eyed eight hairy legged-frilly shrimp with furry antennae. It’s got an extra set of rear legs that look like otter feet and weird-looking genitals. Like a monster.
Delaforge’s discovery was lucky, according to a University of Manitoba press release—these creatures are only free-floating adults during May and June—otherwise they’re either larvae or parasites on clams.
Anyway, there are monsters everywhere, even in the Canadian arctic. Don’t get too spooked, now.
[ZooKeys via UManitoba]

