
Jan Ingenhousz.
Jan Ingenhousz is a Dutch scientist from the 18th century. Born on this day in Breda in 1730, he is responsible for discovering photosynthesis.
Ingenhousz had a varied and exciting life. He began studying medicine at 16 before moving to London, where he successfully immunised hundreds of people who were at risk of smallpox.
Hearing of his achievements, the Austrian Empress Maria Theresa called for him to perform the same immunisation process in Vienna. After inoculating the entire Habsburg family, the Empress hired Ingenhousz as the family's doctor.
Ingenhousz had interests far beyond immunisation, however, which ultimately led to his discovery of the photosynthetic process. He was the first person to notice that oxygen was produced by leaves in sunlight, while carbon dioxide was produced in darkness.  
Ingenhousz published his findings in 1799, which has gone on to influence plant life research to this day. 


Smart luggage like that made by Bluesmart will soon face restrictions on many airlines.
Many major US airlines have announced restrictions on so-called smart luggage out of concern their lithium ion batteries may pose a fire risk.
Smart luggage tends to contain a USB port for charging devices, GPS to track the bag's location, remote locking and built-in weight sensors. Some even sport a motor to propel the bag for ease of movement through an airport.
These features require power that is often supplied by built-in lithium ion batteries, which contain highly flammable liquid. Worried the batteries could cause a fire in the cargo hold that would go undetected, airlines are instituting new rules that require fliers remove the batteries when they check their luggage and carry them into the passenger cabin.
"Beginning Jan. 15, customers who travel with a smart bag must be able to remove the battery in case the bag has to be checked at any point in the customer's journey. If the battery cannot be removed, the bag will not be allowed," American Airlines said in a statement on Friday. Delta and Alaska soon followed suit with similar policies on their flights.
In the past couple of years, the use of lithium ion batteries has been linked to fires and spewing smoke in a slew of products, including Samsung's now-canceled Galaxy Note 7, hoverboards, and Boeing's 787 Dreamliner.
The Federal Aviation Administration issued a warning about the batteries last year, urging airlines to examine the risks associated with transporting lithium batteries as cargo, including "the potential risk for a catastrophic hull loss." The alert covered batteries being transported as components and not those already inside devices such as laptops, tablets, phones or hoverboards.
However, many bags have batteries that can't be removed, and that has smart luggage makers like Bluesmart worried.
"We are saddened by these latest changes to some airline regulations and feel it is a step back not only for travel technology, but that it also presents an obstacle to streamlining and improving the way we all travel," Bluesmart told CNN.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
That fantastic notch.
When Samsung mocks Apple, does it gnaw at Apple's soul?
I'm thinking about the recent Samsung ad (video below) that claimed the iPhone was always late to the party and never much fun. While the Galaxy range, of course, was the apogee of invention.
Here, you see, are some relevant words from Apple's vice president of iPhone, iPad and iOS product marketing, Greg Joswiak. 
Speaking to Tom's Guide, Joswiak offered, "It doesn't matter if you're first to a general idea, it's about being first to making it fantastic, and that's what we try to do."
To whom could he possibly have been referring, if not Apple's Korean rival?
Joswiak explained the difference between Apple's method and anyone else's like this: "Whether it's the chip team working  with our hardware team or our software team with our human interface  team -- it is one team here. No one else can match that."
Samsung didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Joswiak insisted that one example of this fantastic was the notch on the iPhone X. This controversial element, one which makes the phone not, as Apple claims, "all screen," has been derided by some as astonishingly ugly.
But Joswiak insisted: "With all of those components, this  is one of the most densely packed technology areas I think we've ever  done. It's one of the most sophisticated pieces of  technology we've ever done in such an incredibly small space."
I confess that when I first handled an iPhone X, I thought the notch wasn't quite as ugly as I'd feared. 
For Joswiak, however, it represents an ambition achieved.
"Forget all those stories you heard  about us trying to map fingerprints into the back, we  had a line of sight on how to do real facial recognition, in a way never  done before. It would be really hard to do, but we just didn't want to  do it the way others had, which could literally be spoofed with a  picture."
Some say, though, that the FaceID system on the iPhone X can be spoofed by, say, your child.
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
We each have our own ideas of what's fantastic. Some think Apple's phones too simplistic, with an ecosystem that prevents personalization. Indeed, on  my recent visits to various carrier stores, I've often found salespeople  telling me they prefer Android phones precisely because they can "do  more" with them.
Others believe Apple makes the phones to which everyone should aspire. 
Still, the quest for fantastic is never over. 
Why, imagine the reactions at Apple when Consumer Reports concluded that the iPhone X wasn't quite as good as, oh, the iPhone 8.
Does the Mac still matter? Apple execs explain why the MacBook Pro was over four years in the making, and why we should care.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.


Kristina Omari is Lyft's new vice president of corporate development and investor relations.
Fresh off the heels of $1.5 billion in new investor funding, Lyft is hiring a vice president of corporate development and investor relations. Kristina Omari, former vice president of corporate development for Fitbit, has been tapped for the job.
"She brings a proven track record of helping companies grow in a fast-paced environment," Brian Roberts, Lyft's chief financial officer, said in a statement. "Her skills and experience will help Lyft continue to expand."
Compared with Uber, Lyft has long been the small dog in the ride-hailing world. It's received $4.1 billion in venture funding and is valued at $11.5 billion, whereas Uber has received $12.9 billion and is valued at $68 billion.
But Lyft has steadily grown over the last year as Uber has been mired in scandals. It's launched in dozens of new cities across the country and now is as ubiquitous as Uber. Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said he's aiming for a 2019 initial public offering in the next 18 to 36 months. But Lyft may be looking at an even earlier IPO.
Sources with knowledge on the matter told the New York Times in October that Lyft was exploring going public in 2018. To reportedly strengthen its position for an IPO, Lyft had been seeking additional investments. It's received two big rounds of funding this year, totaling more than $2 billion. Lyft declined to comment on whether hiring Omari had to do with a forthcoming IPO.
Omari has worked in investment, strategy and mergers and acquisitions for the past 20 years. She joins Lyft from Fitbit. Before that she worked for Adobe, Hewlett-Packard and Lehman Brothers. Omari also co-founded a nonprofit called BuildUp, which assists tech entrepreneurs from under-represented backgrounds.
"Lyft has had an amazing year," Omari said in a statement. "I can't wait to help the company continue delivering for passengers and drivers."
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition.
Life, disrupted: In Europe, millions of refugees are still searching for a safe place to settle. Tech should be part of the solution. But is it? CNET investigates.


With technology increasingly intertwined with all aspects of business, CNET@Work can help you -- from prosumers to small businesses with fewer than five employees -- get started.
If your small business is like most, it runs on Microsoft Office.
You're probably also pondering whether it's time to switch from the traditional perpetual-license versions of Office to an Office 365 subscription.
In theory, making that switch offers multiple advantages. You get a predictable cost instead of having to budget for upgrades every few years. You can install Office apps on multiple devices without activation hassles. Continuous updates and improvements remove some of the headaches of having to buy, install and manage upgrades every few years. You also get access to an ever-expanding assortment of cloud-based services.
But making the decision to switch is just the first step. Much more important is choosing the right Office 365 edition. And with more than a dozen editions to choose from, at prices ranging from $4 to $35 per user per month, it's easy to make the wrong decision.
So let's simplify the decision-making process. To get started, let's look at what's in Office 365. Every Office edition includes some combination of the following elements:
For the sake of this analysis, we assume your small business has no more than five employees. We also assume that you want access to the Office desktop apps for Windows. That removes many of the options that are designed for deployment in much larger companies that have a full-time IT department.
With those conditions set, you have three broad choices available.
If your business is literally a one-person shop, you might be tempted to choose an Office 365 Home subscription over one of the more expensive Office 365 business editions. That decision might even make sense if your requirements are modest enough.
Despite the name, there are no license restrictions to prevent you from using Office 365 Home in a business setting.
At $99 a year, each Office 365 Home subscription is tied to a single Microsoft account and gives you access to the full suite of Office desktop programs: Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote, with Publisher and Access available on Windows PCs only. It also upgrades the free OneDrive cloud storage associated with your Microsoft account to 1TB and upgrades your free Outlook.com account to a 50GB ad-free mailbox.
You can share this subscription with up to five different Microsoft accounts, each of which gets to install the Office desktop apps and has its own 1TB OneDrive allotment and upgraded mailbox. (For $30 less, you can purchase Office 365 Personal, which limits installation to one PC and one mobile device and can't be shared with others.)
Despite the name, there are no license restrictions to prevent you from using these apps in a business setting.
Who it's best for: Sole proprietors who already have a business email address and simply want convenient access to the latest Office desktop apps on up to five PCs.
Each Business Premium subscription costs $150 per year. Like the Home edition, it allows you to install the Office desktop programs on up to five PCs. It also includes Exchange Online email, with a custom domain, 1TB of secure OneDrive for Business cloud storage, and a collection of online collaboration features, including SharePoint and Microsoft Teams. Recent additions also include customer relationship management tools.
The biggest difference between home and business editions start with who manages the account. Each Office 365 Home subscription is managed by an individual user with a Microsoft account. Business and enterprise subscriptions belong to an organization and are managed centrally, with an administrator assigning licenses to users in the organization.
The Business Premium plans include Exchange Online email that is tied to one or more custom domains associated with your business.
The Business Premium plans include Exchange Online email that is tied to one or more custom domains associated with your business. You can create email aliases (such as sales@example.com) to make your small business look a bit bigger. (If you just want the Office desktop apps and OneDrive storage but don't need email, consider the Office 365 Business plan at $99 a year.)
Business and enterprise plans include security features you can't get with a Home or Personal subscription, including multifactor authentication, self-service password reset and alerts for security issues such as possible breaches.
Although you can buy one license at a time, the business editions of Office 365 include management tools that are designed for a dedicated IT department or a consultant. If you want to manage your own Business Premium subscription, make sure you're comfortable with technical tasks such as configuring DNS and MX records for your email domain.
Who it's best for: Small businesses that want each employee to have full access to Office desktop apps along with a custom email address associated with the business.
Microsoft offers a dizzying menu of options for its enterprise customers, including Office 365 ProPlus ($12 a month), which includes just the desktop programs and OneDrive for Business storage, as well as the Office 365 Enterprise E3 and E5 packages, which bundle online services with those apps.
Although these plans are intended primarily for large corporations, they might make sense for a small business such as a law office or health services consultant that has to comply with industry-specific regulations such as HIPAA. In addition to the services included with a Business Premium plan, the $20-a-month Enterprise E3 plan offers security and compliance tools, such as the ability to place a legal hold on an email account and data loss prevention tools.
An Enterprise subscription also future-proofs your growing business.
An Enterprise subscription also future-proofs your growing business. Unlike the Business Premium plan, which limits the total number of users to 300, you can purchase an unlimited number of enterprise licenses and mix and match the ProPlus, E1, E3 and E5 plans. Here, too, the management interface can be daunting and is best left to a professional consultant or a managed service provider.
Who it's best for: Businesses that need to project a professional image with email and file-sharing tied to a custom domain, as well as those who have to comply with industry-specific regulatory requirements.
For more details and comparison charts covering the many Office 365 options, see these pages from Microsoft.
And from our sister sites TechRepublic and ZDNet:


While many bitcoin investors are basking in record valuations, some are coming to grips with an astonishing loss.
Cryptocurrency marketplace NiceHash said Wednesday that hackers stole the contents of its virtual wallet, making off with digital currency reportedly worth more $60 million. The breach was announced the same day Bitcoin rose 18.2 percent to  cross the $13,000- and then $14,000-per-coin trading milestones for the  first time.
NiceHash, a marketplace for cloud-based mining of cryptocurrencies,   made its announcement following an hours-long outage attributed to "maintenance" and reports from NiceHash users that their wallets had been emptied. NiceHash paused operations for 24 hours to determine how many bitcoins were stolen and how. But a Coindesk report suggests the wallet contained 4,736 bitcoins, worth about $66 million at current prices.
"This is a matter of deep concern and we are working hard to rectify the matter in the coming days," the Slovenia-based NiceHash said in a statement. "In addition to undertaking our own investigation, the incident has been reported to the relevant authorities and law enforcement and we are co-operating with them as a matter of urgency."
In the meantime, NiceHash is recommending users change their passwords.
Bitcoin has proved popular with currency traders, going on a massive bull run  in 2017. On Jan. 1 this year, bitcoin was priced at just under $1,000.  On Wednesday, the currency rose $2,170 to $14,095 before settling to  $13,696 as of this writing and giving it a market capitalization of $231  billion. 
This isn't the first time a bitcoin wallet has fallen victim to  security shortfalls. One of the most famous security lapses resulted in  bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox filing for bankruptcy in 2014 after losing nearly 850,000 customers and exchange bitcoins.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.


Valve has stopped accepting bitcoin for Steam purchases, the game developer said Wednesday, citing the cryptocurrency's high fees and volatility as the impetus behind the move.
Along with bitcoin's skyrocketing valuation, transaction fees charged to customers have also risen dramatically, from the 20 cents when the company enabled bitcoin support two years ago to $20 last week, Valve said in a blog post. The decision was announced the same day bitcoin rose 18.2 percent to cross the $13,000- and then $14,000-per-coin trading milestones for the first time.
"These fees result in unreasonably high costs for purchasing games when paying with bitcoin," Valve said in a statement. "The high transaction fees cause even greater problems when the value of bitcoin itself drops dramatically."
Valve began accepting bitcoin on its Steam service in 2016 to accommodate international users who might not have access to traditional payment options. Valve's move was part of a larger acceptance of the digital currency, which is now accepted by more than 100,000 merchants worldwide, including Microsoft, Dish and Overstock.
Bitcoin has also proved popular with currency traders, going on a massive bull run in 2017. On Jan. 1 this year, bitcoin was priced at just under $1,000. On Wednesday, the currency rose $2,170 to $14,095 before settling to $13,696 as of this writing and giving it a market capitalization of $231 billion.  
Still, the cryptocurrency's lack of government backing and regulation has led to volatility. After crossing the $11,000 mark for the first time a week ago, the currency lost 20 percent of its value in one day.
Valve said that volatility can complicate purchases made on Steam, a platform and social network for buying computer games and software.
"When checking out on Steam, a customer will transfer x amount of bitcoin for the cost of the game, plus y amount of bitcoin to cover the transaction fee charged by the bitcoin network," Valve said. "The value of bitcoin is only guaranteed for a certain period of time, so if the transaction doesn't complete within that window of time, then the amount of bitcoin needed to cover the transaction can change.
"The amount it can change has been increasing recently to a point where it can be significantly different," the game distributor said.
As a result, Valve said, support for bitcoin has become "untenable," but it said it might re-evaluate the cryptocurrency's fit into its business at a later date.
Update, 7:45 p.m. PT: Adds bitcoin crossing the $14,000 trading threshold.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Facebook's VR company is revamping the way you use its software starting Wednesday.
Every great hero has a secret lair.
Batman has his Batcave, filled with high-tech gear, cars -- and even a giant animatronic T-Rex. Charles Xavier has the School for Gifted Youngsters, with its secret underground bunker for storing aircraft and bad guys. And Superman has his hideaway, the Fortress of Solitude.
Now Oculus wants to make sure you have someplace you can call your own.
On Wednesday, Facebook's VR subsidiary will start offering a prerelease version of Oculus Home, a virtual room that you can outfit pretty much however you want. Think of it as a computer-generated Pottery Barn catalog, mixed with flourishes like an old video game console, art, rubber duckies and a bow with arrows you can shoot into the stars.
Don't see what you want? No problem. You'll eventually be able to create whatever items suit your fancy.
And everything can be interactive, like a private miniature golf course where you can play a round of nine holes. Just watch out for the giant robot spider.
All that's required is a $399 Oculus Rift headset, included touch controllers and a computer powerful enough to drive it all. Oculus Home software is free and will be released early next year as part of a larger free software package called Rift Core 2.0.
"What, this old thing? It's just my second home -- in VR."
"We put a lot of time and energy into making this stuff feel great," said Brandon Dillon, product manager for the project.
Along with Oculus Home, the Rift Core 2.0 will include a revamped app store that's easier to navigate than the existing one and a pop-up menu called Dash that makes it easier to switch between programs or respond to friends while in the middle of a game. Dash is designed to be used in pretty much any VR app.
VR, which relies on audiovisual headsets you strap over your eyes, can trigger psychological and neurological responses that make you feel immersed in a digital universe. Oculus believes the ability to customize VR to suit your tastes will be make you feel even more at home.
"We're giving you a space that belongs to you," said Nate Mitchell, an Oculus co-founder and head of product.
If you talk about VR with someone in the tech industry long enough, a book will inevitably come up in the conversation. It's called "Ready Player One."
The epic sci-fi novel by Ernest Cline, set in a futuristic United States, follows the adventures of a young man named Wade Watts as he seeks a treasure, battles an evil corporation and pursues a crush. But instead of taking place in space or some fantastical world, Watts is sitting in a room in the US, wearing a VR headset.
This 2011 book, which is liberally peppered with inside references to pop culture and games from the past three decades, became such an inspiration to VR enthusiasts that Oculus has been handing it out to new employees for years. The book was even among the favors given to fans at its first developer conference in 2014. (For his part, Dillon says he's more a fan of Neal Stephenson's VR epic "Snow Crash.")
It probably comes as no surprise then that one of the subplots of "Ready Player One," which will be released as a movie by Steven Spielberg early next year, is the virtual homes Watts and other characters created for themselves.
One, for example, created the ideal geek den, complete with old video games and trinkets from geek culture through the decades. Another constructed a virtual reproduction of his childhood town.
Watts built his home in an asteroid. There's even a nightclub in VR.
Mitchell smiled when I referenced these things. Oculus was so taken with these ideas that it even included retro-style video game consoles as objects you can place in your virtual home, just like characters from "Ready Player One."
Plug these retro-style cartridges into the game console in VR, hit the power button, and you can play a real game.
The bigger question is whether experiences like Oculus Home will convince people to use VR more, particularly because sales of VR headsets have been tepid.
Oculus gives "you the ability to dress it up, but they haven't changed the reason why you would go there," said Patrick Joynt, a vice president of research at  consultancy Frank N. Magid Associates. "It sounds like a fun piece of software that won't justify extended use."
Mitchell is more hopeful. He sees features like being able to visit rooms with friends becoming more common as VR experiences. Meanwhile, being able to work on documents and surf the web while in your VR home may help it feel like more than just a gee-whiz trick.
"We're making VR more into a computing platform," Mitchell said. "We want you to be able to do more with the device."
So I'm prepared for the adventures of Ian-Man, a superhero tech journalist whose lair will be to die for.
I just have to build it first.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


Brave Software has embarked on the next phase of its plan to get you to use its browser -- and to build a privacy-first alternative to today's online ad industry.
The Brave browser blocks ads and ad trackers by default, a move that makes pages load faster and eliminates some prying into our lives online. But the startup doesn't want to rid the world of ads, only to come up with a system that delivers them with more privacy and security and fewer middlemen.
Brave Software's lion logo
Brave already lets you contribute payments to publishers and, more recently, YouTube stars who sign up with Brave. Ultimately, it plans to build a system in which those payments are funded by some of the ads you see. Taking a step in that direction on Wednesday, it started issuing the digital equivalent of the money it hopes will power that system.
"We're giving people a warm welcome and putting some change in their pockets," said company Chief Executive Brendan Eich, who previously co-founded and led the Mozilla Firefox browser.
"If we do it right, it'll create a new ecosystem into which we transplant the viable parts of the current ecosystem -- the users, the publishers and content creators, and the brands who advertise," he said. "We're just reconnecting them."
Brave's new system relies on technology called cryptocurrency. The best-known example is bitcoin, which has surged in value in recent months. But Brave relies on a newer, more sophisticated alternative, Ethereum, as a foundation for its technology, called the basic attention token, or BAT. At the current exchange rate, each BAT is worth about 21 cents.
On May 31, Brave raised $36 million in 24 seconds by selling 1 billion BATs. Brave wants these tokens to be what gets  exchanged in the online ad industry. An advertiser will give them to a publisher to show an ad, for example, or in the case of the Brave itself, to people using the browser who see an ad. So far about 1,100 publishers and YouTube stars have signed up for Brave's system, which lets them exchange BAT for dollars and other currencies through a partnership with online wallet company Uphold.
Ordinary Brave users can only spend BATs, not cash them out, but Brave hopes that'll become more useful in the future. For example, BATs could unlock news articles behind a paywall quickly and without requiring you to think about whether you really want to pay more than $100 for an annual subscription to paywalled publications like the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, New Yorker or, soon, Wired.
Cryptocurrencies are a new technology with something of a wild-west reputation still. Blockchain's meteoric rise inspires fears of a bubble bursting when speculation cools off. The US Securities and Exchange Commission just went to court to freeze assets of a cryptocurrency company called PlexCorps it alleges is a fraud. Bitcoin is used to, among other things, fund Nazi sympathizers who've been kicked off mainstream online sites.
But the underpinnings of cryptocurrency, a technology called blockchain, is no scam. Blockchain  promises new levels of trust and transparency for many types of transactions, and companies like Microsoft and IBM are embracing it wholeheartedly.
Brave will grant new and existing browser users digital currency that the browser can send to websites you visit.
Brave's attempt to address drawbacks of today's online ad technology --  problems like privacy invasion, website performance and the injection of dangerous "malvertising" into web pages -- relies on its BAT cryptocurrency. It sold 1.5 billion BATs in May, but it separately reserved 300 million for what's called a user growth pool. Wednesday's move distributes a tenth of a percent of them, but there will be other grants, Eich said.
Brave hopes the pool of tokens will attract new users to its browser and get existing users to set up BAT wallets within the browser, Eich said.
If you're using Brave and opt into the BAT system, the browser automatically divvies up BAT transfers each month depending on how much time you spend at each website. You can also "pin" specific recipients so they get a fixed percentage of your contribution.
Brave also hopes the BAT bonus will encourage YouTubers to sign up -- and publicize BAT and Brave. Brave by default blocks ads, so Brave users will be crimping advertising revenue distributed through YouTube's conventional payment mechanism.
Ultimately, Brave plans to build a broader BAT network that includes other software from other companies and, eventually, standardize it as part of the web.
Correction, Dec. 6 at 5:20 p.m.: Brave created 1.5 billion tokens, but only 1 billion of them were sold on May 31.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.


Ford and Chinese tech juggernaut Alibaba have signed a comprehensive deal to explore new ways of selling cars in China. 
The plan calls for exploring test-selling automobiles both online and at physical locations, Reuters reports. The multipronged "letter of intent" means that Ford and Alibaba will jointly explore opportunities around cloud computing, artificial intelligence, mobility services, digital marketing, and online retailing for at least three years.
According to Reuters, Ford will investigate leveraging Alibaba's Tmall online store to sell new vehicles, as well as its new "'auto vending machine' store concept," an idea that sounds more than a bit like what used car retailer Carvana has pioneered with increasing success. 
The vending machine will reportedly allow prospective customers to view a store's inventory on their phones, as well as summon them to the ground floor for a test drive or even purchase them outright. Eligible customers will be able to put 10 percent down on their new vehicles and finance the rest through Alibaba's Alipay.
Ford and Alibaba execs have signed an agreement to jointly explore new ways to sell cars and services in China.
Vehicles purchased online through Alibaba's Tmall may be delivered and serviced through Ford dealers, and indeed, the same could apply to vehicles found in the company's vending machine buildings.  
Ford will likely have to work hard to assuage any concerns of its dealer body with any Alibaba deal, as their existing network of retailers could grow concerned that they're being cut out of new vehicle sales and financing opportunities. Direct sales from automaker to consumer are possible in China and other global markets, but the practice is generally illegal in most US states. 
When Roadshow reached Alibaba and Ford reps by phone, neither immediately offered a comment on this story.
Update, Dec. 7: This story has been updated to reflect the signing of the letter of intent, along with new details about the agreement's areas of focus.


This is Xiaomi's Mi Pad. Mi, by the way, is pronounced as "me," not "my."
Here's a question: How do you read "Mi Pad?"
A European Union court has ruled that Chinese phone maker Xiaomi cannot register its Mi Pad tablet as a trademark because it thinks buyers will read it as "My Pad," which it says sounds too similar to Apple's "iPad," Reuters reported Wednesday.
The General Court added that the extra letter "M" isn't enough to differentiate the Mi Pad from the iPad in terms of visual presentation, according to a statement seen by Reuters.
Xiaomi submitted an application to the EU Intellectual Property Office to have "Mi Pad" registered as a trademark in 2014. It didn't succeed -- Apple filed a complaint upheld by the EUIPO in 2016 that consumers could confuse it as a variant of the iPhone maker's iPad.
It's not the first time Apple has taken action against Xiaomi, which is best known for its phones, for products that are too similar to its own in different ways. In 2014, it criticised the Chinese phone maker for coming up with phone designs that were too similar to the iPhone.
"We are studying this matter and evaluating our options," a Xiaomi spokesperson said. 
While Xiaomi is known in its home country of China and especially India (which really loves it), it remains an unfamiliar name in the States. Lei Jun, Xiaomi's CEO, said the company is "carefully evaluating" for the best time to crack the market, but there's word it could bring its phones to the country within the next two years.
Update, 11:16 a.m. AEST: Adds comment from Xiaomi. 
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet?



Fresh from its earlier Prime Now launch in Singapore, Amazon now wants its customers in the island country to hop on its Prime service at S$8.99 a month ($6.70).
The Prime launch, a first in Southeast Asia, will see Amazon expanding its reach in the region even as Chinese rival Alibaba already sells merchandise from its online Taobao stores through a regional e-commerce subsidiary, Lazada. It also follows the US company's belated arrival in Australia yesterday.
Prime, a membership service that gives users complimentary two-day shipping and access to discounts and deals, is already live in Japan, China and India. Southeast Asia, a market expected to have a middle-income class of 400 million in 2020, remains a hugely lucrative market. 
Compared to the US' Prime, though, Singapore's version is lacking. While subscribers will get access to same day deliveries via Prime Now, it will only apply to some 5 million items from the international selection, compared to over 50 million in the US, with free shipping if they spend S$60 ($45). Singaporeans do, however, get access to Prime videos and Twitch Prime.
However, this does mean the previously free Prime Now service is gone, and users will have to subscribe to Prime if they even want to make a purchase locally, unlike local rivals Redmart and Honestbee, which do not require a subscription to order products such as diapers or groceries. Furthermore, items that previously shipped free to Singapore using AmazonGlobal Saver are not available, or are shipped separately but with fees. There's also no music or books included with the membership.
That said, Amazon may consider adding these services in the future.
"We aren't done yet," said an Amazon spokesperson to CNET.  "We will keep making Prime better and better in Singapore, adding more selection, finding ways to make it faster and adding more benefits including great quality entertainment." 
The localised Prime is also different from the US version, and if you're already a subscriber there, it doesn't automatically give you Prime benefits for the Singapore version. 
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.


Facebook employees are pretty happy with their employer.
If you work at Facebook, count yourself pretty lucky.
And not just for the free meals, on-site health care or new-parent benefits.
But those things probably factor into the social-networking giant being named the best place to work in 2018 by jobs site Glassdoor. And it's probably been a good experience for a while, seeing how this is the third year in a row Facebook has been atop Glassdoor's list of 100 best places to work, which is determined by employee feedback.
If you don't work at Facebook, there might still be hope for you. Glassdoor said there were 40 newcomers on this year's list, including video game maker Blizzard Entertainment (at No. 28 on the list) and wireless carrier T-Mobile (No. 79). There are also three veterans that have made the list every year since it was introduced 10 years ago, including management-consulting firm Bain & Company (No. 2), search giant Google (No. 5) and Apple (No. 84).
Certainly companies work hard to make their workplaces as appealing as possible to retain talented employees, but there is something mouthwateringly tantalizing in thinking about how In-N-Out Burger came in at No. 4 on the list.
 Here's the top 20:
1.    Facebook
2.    Bain & Company
3.    Boston Consulting Group
4.    In-N-Out Burger
5.    Google
6.    lululemon
7.    HubSpot
8.    World Wide Technology
9.    St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
10.  Ultimate Software
11.  SAP
12.  McKinsey & Company
13.  Keller Williams
14.  E. & J. Gallo Winery
15.  Salesforce
16.  Power Home Remodeling
17.  Delta Air Lines
18.  Academy Mortgage
19.  The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
20.  H E B


Bitcoin has rebounded from a recent slump to notch another record valuation.
Bitcoin climbed 3.86 percent on Tuesday, crossing the $12,000-per-coin mark for the first time. At this writing, the cryptocurrency was trading at $12,116 against the US dollar, a little more than a week after passing $9,000.
Tuesday's trading price gives bitcoin a market capitalization of $203 billion and historic rise in valuation of 1,100 percent since the beginning of the year.
Despite its bull run, the cryptocurrency's lack of government backing and regulation has led to volatility. After crossing the $11,000 mark for the first time a week ago, the currency lost 20 percent of its value in one day.
It's also fed concern that bitcoin is on the edge of a bubble.
"This is a bubble and there is a lot of froth. This is going to be the biggest bubble of our lifetimes," hedge fund manager Mike Novogratz told Bloomberg at a cryptocurrency conference last week in New York.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun speaks with reporters Tuesday at Qualcomm's tech summit .
Xiaomi's still aiming for the US, but it's not quite ready to make a move.
Lei Jun, CEO of the fast-growing Chinese handset maker, on Tuesday said he's "carefully evaluating the best timeline to come to the US" with its smartphones. By selling some of its other devices in the country, like the Mi Box set-top box, it's able to learn about consumers and figure out the best approach, he said.
"We hope to be an immediate success in the US so we need a lot of time and careful preparation to achieve that," he said via a translator Tuesday during a roundtable with reporters at Qualcomm's tech summit in Hawaii. Earlier Tuesday, Jun said the Xiaomi Mi 7 would be one of the first devices to use Qualcomm's upcoming Snapdragon 845 processor. 
The comments from Jun about the US are a common refrain for the company. It has said for years that it would eventually launch phones in the US, but that the time wasn't right. 
While Xiaomi, Huawei and others have gained traction in markets like China, it's tougher to compete in the US. That market is still dominated by Apple and Samsung, with the companies holding 30 percent and 25 percent of market share, respectively, according to Strategy Analytics. 
In the third quarter, Xiaomi was the world's fifth biggest smartphone vendor. It more than doubled its shipments from 13.6 million a year ago, according to IDC, as it benefited from growth in the India market. 
Along with saying little about US plans, Jun also declined to comment about a possible IPO, say if his company is making foldable phones, or give details about a possible new laptop.
"The smartphone industry is still uber competitive," Jun said when asked about foldable phones. "Everyone is coming up with all sorts of innovation. Next year Xiaomi will definitely have a few products that steal customers hearts -- and also unique products."
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Venture capitalist Shervin Pishevar says he's the target of a smear campaign.
A Silicon Valley venture capitalist accused of sexual harassment and assault is taking leave from his roles at Hyperloop One and Sherpa Capital to focus on legal action about what he calls a "smear campaign" against him.
Shervin Pishevar, an early investor in Uber, has been accused of sexually assaulting or harassing five women he met in a professional context, according to a Bloomberg report last month. Pishevar filed a lawsuit last month against Definers Public Affairs, accusing the public relations firm of carrying out a "malicious smear campaign."
Pishevar said Tuesday he had "decided to take an immediate leave of absence from my duties at Sherpa Capital and Virgin Hyperloop One, as well as my portfolio company board responsibilities, so that I can pursue the prosecution of my lawsuit, where I am confident I will be vindicated."
Definers Public Affairs has denied any involvement in work related to Pishevar.
The development is the latest in a slew of controversies involving men behaving badly in the tech world, as well as in entertainment, politics and media. The incidents have prompted several executives at venture capital funds to step down, and raises broader questions of how women are treated in these fields.
Sherpa Capital, the venture capital firm Pishevar co-founded, said it respected and supported his decision to take a leave of absence while he pursues legal action. The firm also said it planned to conduct an independent internal review to "ensure our practices and operations continue to reflect the highest professional and ethical standards.
"We recognize the inherent challenges of reporting misconduct, but note that Sherpa has never received a sexual harassment complaint," the firm said in a statement Tuesday.
Pishevar's alleged victims, who requested anonymity, accused him of exploiting the promise of a professional connection to make an unwanted sexual advance, Bloomberg reported. One of the accusers is Austin Geidt, Uber's head of global expansion, who was the target of unsolicited touching on her leg by Pishevar during a party, the news agency reported.
This isn't the first time Pishevar has been accused of sexual misconduct. He was arrested in May for allegedly sexual assaulting a 31-year-old woman in a London hotel, but wasn't charged, according to a Fast Company report in November. The City of London Comptroller's office  said later that a police report into the allegations was not compiled by or on behalf of the City of London police and "uses  terminology and details which are not familiar" to that police force.
Pishevar isn't the only VC to have allegedly harassed women. Steve Jurvetson, one of Silicon Valley's most high-profile venture capitalists, left his namesake firm, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, last month amid a sexual harassment investigation, according to Recode. Binary Capital co-founder Justin Caldbeck left his job in June after a story in The Information said he'd allegedly made sexual advances at female entrepreneurs.
Sens. Kamala Harris and Cory Booker told Bloomberg  on Monday that they were both donating Pishevar's campaign  contributions, $19,000 and $15,000 respectively, to organizations that  support women dealing with sexual violence.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.


The Girl Scouts of the USA is teaming with Raytheon to start a computer science program. 
In the Girl Scouts, tech's reach has moved beyond badges for skills like video game development and space science.
The Girl Scouts of the USA is building on its STEM education with the launch of a national computer science program for middle school and high school students. It's teaming up with defense contractor Raytheon to help prepare girls for careers in cybersecurity, robotics, artificial intelligence and data science.
The issue of diversity in the tech industry, more specifically the lack of it, has come to the fore in the past few years. Statistics show minorities and women make up less than 30 percent of the workforce, with the numbers of those in technical roles even lower.
"The progress to diversify the STEM workforce needs to be accelerated," Raytheon CEO Thomas A. Kennedy said in a press release Monday. "At a time when technology is transforming the way we live and work, we can -- and should -- show young women a clear path to taking an active role in this transformation."
The new program will run as a test in select areas starting early next year, and roll out nationwide by the fall. The Girl Scouts in 2019 will also hold a pilot Cyber Challenge, where students can put their coding skills to use.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Will Apple weep at this review?
It was, apparently, so close.
Yet the iPhone X, Apple's future of the smartphone, just wasn't quite good enough. Not quite, indeed, as good as the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus.
That's the curious conclusion of the testers at Consumer Reports. 
The consumer assistance publication contorts itself to be nice, like a British public head telling parents their child doesn't quite measure up to the school's requirements.
The X's camera is "fanstastic" and the display is "beautiful." The very best phones -- among which the X found a place -- are separated by a mere couple of points on a scale of 100.
The big question, however, is the phone's durability. The respected publication concluded that the 8 and 8 Plus "both proved hardier in a test designed to reproduce the drops and fumbles that can cause cracked screens and other damage."
As soon as the X emerged, my colleagues at CNET conducted their own durability and drop test and discovered that it cracked the very first time it was dropped. 
The glass back isn't exactly conducive to rugged treatment. Still, the 8 and 8 Plus have glass backs too. Consumer Reports insists these phones are "more resistant to breaking."
Battery life is another area in which iPhone X displeased the testers.
Even more painfully, perhaps, the publication ranks the X lower than the Samsung Galaxy S8, the S8+ and the Note 8. 
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. 
Apple has, though, in the past had a slight contretemps with Consumer Report. At the end of last year, the publication offered a critical view of the MacBook Pro. The issue was ultimately resolved.
It's not as if Apple is the lone manufacturer to get a less than perfect review. Microsoft had its Surface tablets un-recommended by the publication. 
Still, as I've discovered in my wanderings around different carrier stores (and Best Buy), the most important thing is how a phone feels to you, how much you want to pay, how much you're embedded in an ecosystem and whether the store salesman would really prefer it if you buy something else.
Indeed, last week, a T-Mobile salesman happily told me that the 8 Plus was better than the X. (My colleague Scott Stein begged to differ in his review.)
I fear there won't be too many teeth gnashing in Cupertino. Apple reportedly sold 6 million iPhone X handsets over the Black Friday weekend.
Even more reassuringly, I haven't seen any reports of iPhone X devices exploding.
Does the Mac still matter? Apple execs explain why the MacBook Pro was over four years in the making, and why we should care.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.


YouTube is cutting access to Amazon's FireTV and Echo Show
If you've got an Amazon Fire TV, say goodbye to using it to watch YouTube.
The Google-owned video service is cutting access to the Amazon device on Jan. 1, a Google spokeswoman said on Tuesday. YouTube is also cutting access Tuesday for a second time to Amazon's Echo Show video device.
The moves signal that the ongoing battle between the world's biggest search engine and the world's largest online retailer may get messier in 2018.
"We've been trying to reach agreement with Amazon to give consumers access to each other's products and services," the Google spokeswoman said in a statement. "But Amazon doesn't carry Google products like Chromecast and Google Home, doesn't make Prime Video available for Google Cast users, and last month stopped selling some of Nest's latest products. 
"Given this lack of reciprocity," she said. "We are no longer supporting YouTube on Echo Show and FireTV. We hope we can reach an agreement to resolve these issues soon."
Google and Amazon have been in an intensifying competition on multiple fronts, with Amazon pushing deeper into Google's turf of online advertising and Google moving into Amazon's territory of e-commerce and smart speakers. This competition over the years has spilled out into public view and often resulted in fewer options for customers. Still, it's unclear whether Google's latest move should be seen as a negotiating tactic by the search giant or a sign of more fighting between the two companies.
In one of the most recent spats between the two tech powerhouses, YouTube vanished from Amazon's Echo Show device in September, with Google saying Amazon's implementation of YouTube on the Echo Show violated its terms of service. The Show, unveiled in May, is essentially an Amazon Echo smart speaker with a built-in touchscreen display. YouTube returned to the Show last month, just in time for Black Friday, by directing users to YouTube's website, but Google is cutting access again.
"Echo Show and Fire TV now display a standard web view of YouTube.com and point customers directly to YouTube's existing website," an Amazon spokeswoman said. "Google is setting a disappointing precedent by selectively blocking customer access to an open website. We hope to resolve this with Google as soon as possible."
Two years, ago, Amazon banned Google's Chromecast and Apple TV from its website, helping Amazon direct its customers toward its own Fire TV and away from competing devices. Amazon at the time said the move was to ensure its customers were buying the best devices for watching its Prime Video service and to help "avoid customer confusion."
Apple said earlier this year that Prime Video is coming to Apple TV. Prime Video isn't available on Google Chromecast or Android TV devices, but it is on mobile Android devices.
Google and Amazon have been in a high-stakes battle to get their devices into your home. Amazon released the Echo, a voice-controlled speaker and smart home hub, in 2014. Google followed suit last year with its rival Google Home. Apple plans to join the market with its $350 HomePod. Still, Amazon is the dominant leader in the smart speaker world, with Echo devices owning 73 percent of the market. Google is far behind with 27 percent, according to a report by Consumer Intelligence Research Partners.
In September, Amazon unveiled a new line of Echo devices, including the Echo Plus, the Echo Spot and an updated Echo. In October, Google unveiled a slew of hardware products to get its Assistant, a digital helper akin to Amazon's Alexa and Apple's Siri, to more users. The new devices include an updated version of the Google Home smart speaker and a Google Home Mini device. 
Despite the direct competition between the Google Home and the Amazon Echo, the two companies continue to work together for some connected home devices. For instance, Google's parent company, Alphabet, continues to let people control their Nest thermostats and cameras using an Echo. The Nest thermostat is available on Amazon, but last month other Nest products disappeared from the site, including the Nest Thermostat E, a cheaper version of the device, and the Nest Secure alarm system. 
Right now Google Home can't be bought on Amazon either. Neither can Google's Chromecast video streaming device. Google has been in negotiations with Amazon to try to get both company's products on each of their platforms, a person familiar with Google's thinking told CNET. That could mean, for example, having Prime Video, Amazon's streaming video service, on Google's Cast streaming products.
"It should be about users of Google and Amazon, not Google and Amazon," the person said.
First published Dec. 5, 11:15 a.m. PTUpdate, 1:48 p.m.: Adds comment from Amazon.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Lyft just got an extra $500 million boost in funding.
Lyft's latest round of funding just got bigger.
The ride-hailing company announced in October that it had received a $1 billion investment, led by Google-parent Alphabet's investment arm CapitalG. On Tuesday, Lyft said the funding had been increased by $500 million, for a grand total of $1.5 billion. The influx of cash could help Lyft in its battle to grab market share from rival Uber.
"It's been a breakout year for Lyft, made possible by our team members, drivers, and passengers," Lyft President John Zimmer said in an emailed statement. "We will continue to invest in our community and look forward to an even bigger 2018."
Compared with Uber, Lyft has long been the small dog in the ride-hailing world. Before now, it's received $2.6 billion in venture funding, whereas Uber has received $12.9 billion and is valued at $68 billion. With this extra $500 million in funding, Lyft is now valued at $11.5 billion.
Lyft has grown steadily over the last year as Uber has been mired in scandals. Since January, Lyft has launched in dozens of new cities across the country and now is nearly as ubiquitous as its rival. It's currently available in all 50 states and just launched internationally in Toronto, Canada.
Ridership is also up. From January to October this year, Lyft said it gave 500 million rides -- that's more than all its rides in the previous four years combined.
For this new round of funding Lyft is partnering with Fidelity Management & Research Company and Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, along with a handful of other existing investors.
"Through our investment in Lyft, Ontario Teachers' will be participating in the continued growth of ridesharing miles traveled in North America," said Nicole Musicco, senior managing director of public equities for the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, which is headquartered in Toronto.
Alphabet's investment in Lyft comes as Uber is currently locked in a legal battle with Waymo, Alphabet's self-driving car unit. Waymo accused Uber of stealing its autonomous vehicle technology; Uber calls Waymo's claims "baseless." The trial is slated to begin in February.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition.
Life, disrupted: In Europe, millions of refugees are still searching for a safe place to settle. Tech should be part of the solution. But is it? CNET investigates.


The US government has cracked down on a company it says is running a "full-fledged cyber scam," bilking as much as $15 million out of investors excited by the possibilities of the financial and technological revolution known as cryptocurrency.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission filed a lawsuit Friday against a company called PlexCorps, its principal executive Dominic Lacroix and his partner, Sabrina Paradis-Royer to stop them from receiving money from a fund-raising process called an initial coin offering. Its case persuaded a court to freeze the PlexCorps assets as a result, the SEC said Monday.
PlexCorps didn't respond to a request for comment. On Facebook, though, PlexCorps said it's not a fraud and that it's cooperating with Canadian financial authorities and the SEC. 
PlexCorps promises an easy-to-use avenue for people to get involved in the complicated world of cryptocurrencies, but the SEC says its PlexCoin is a "scam."
Over and over, new technology has enriched not just titans like Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos but also ordinary folks who bought in at the right time. Google stock today is worth 20 times the $50 per share it sold for in 2004. But just because new tech generates new wealth doesn't mean that every new idea means easy money.
PlexCorps and Lacroix had promised a 1,354 percent profit in just 29 days to those who participated in a process called an initial coin offering (ICO) -- a sale of the digital assets central to the cryptocurrency technology. But according to the lawsuit -- the first from the SEC's new Cyber Unit -- "PlexCorps and the PlexCoin Token are a scam."
Why? Among other things, the lawsuit said, "Lacroix was a known recidivist securities law violator in Canada; the proceeds from the PlexCoin ICO were not destined for business development but instead were intended to fund Lacroix and Paradis-Royer's expenses including home decor projects; and there was no reasonable basis to project returns on investment."
In its statement, PlexCorps denied wrongdoing: "We are being depicted as robbers, scammers and fraudsters everywhere in the media. They are smearing our name with some allegations that can sometimes be false or misleading ... All PlexCoin purchased were distributed and we are now listed on many cryptocurrency exchanges. We claim that PlexCoin is not a fraud since no one had their money stolen from us and ... all purchased PlexCoin were distributed."
PlexCorps didn't address specific SEC allegations, for example that it didn't really have a large team of experts or that the PlexCoin iCO was an "illegal offering of securities" lacking required paperwork called a registration statement. However, it promised a news release about the matter "in the next few days."
Hundreds of companies are trying to cash in on cryptocurrencies -- no surprise given the real promise of the technology combined with the stunning rise in value of the best-known cryptocurrency, bitcoin. A newer alternative, Ethereum, promises even more sophisticated technology and has been surging in value as well.
The PlexCorps website shows various cryptocurrency-based services, but the US SEC says the company is a fraud.
Cryptocurrencies often have a dual nature. They can serve as a currency, something that can be exchanged for goods and services. And they can be considered an investment, something that will appreciate in value. In the case of PlexCoin, PlexCorps was treating it as this latter category. As such, laws governing the sales of securities apply, the SEC said.
"We acted quickly to protect retail investors from this initial coin offering's false promises," Robert Cohen, chief of the SEC's Cyber Unit, said in a statement.
The SEC also warned in November that celebrities are potentially liable for any misconduct touting initial coin offerings. Boxer Floyd Mayweather and socialite Paris Hilton both promoted cryptocurrencies. "I'm gonna make a $hit t$n of money on August 26th," Mayweather said on his Instagram account in July.
The SEC's new lawsuit seeks to get PlexCorps, Lacroix and Paradis-Royer to "disgorge their ill-gotten gains" along with interest, bar them from ICOs and pay a fine.
The Quebec Autorité Des Marchés Financiers in Canada also cracked down on PlexCorps in July. The cases reveal just how important digital information has become. According to the SEC's lawsuit:
The assets were frozen before Monday, the day when a 90-day Stripe administrative hold was set to expire and about $810,000 was to be transferred to the defendants, the lawsuit said.
First published Dec. 4, 6:16 p.m. PT.Update, Dec. 5 at 10:01 a.m.: Adds PlexCorps comment from its Facebook statement.



Uber has lost its appeal to the UK's Supreme Court over a ruling that its drivers should be given workers' rights.
The ride-sharing company made the appeal following a ruling in November that stated it must treat its drivers as workers. It submitted a request to appeal directly to the Supreme Court, which has been turned down. This means the UK's Court of Appeal will hear the case first.
"Now that Uber has been denied permission to go straight to the Supreme Court, they should take this opportunity to work with their drivers instead of fighting them at every stage. We've already beaten Uber twice and are prepared to do so again in the Court of Appeal," said Yaseen Aslam, co-lead claimant and member of drivers' union, the Independent Workers Union of Great Britain (IWGB).
Uber declined to comment on the ruling.
Correction, Dec. 5 at 11:18 a.m. ET: This story originally misstated the nature of the Supreme Court's decision. The ruling turned down Uber's bid to bypass the Court of Appeals and go straight to the Supreme Court.  


Facebook, Twitter and Google faced grillings from lawmakers on Capitol Hill.
It was about an hour and a half into a hearing with the Senate Intelligence Committee when Sen. Dianne Feinstein laid into Facebook, Google and Twitter.
"I don't think you get it," she began. "You bear this responsibility. You've created these platforms, and now they are being misused. And you have to be the ones to do something about it. Or we will."
The tech giants were being grilled by Congress over Russian trolls abusing their services to meddle in last year's US election, and the California Democratic lawmaker had had it.
It was just one of very public tongue-lashings the Silicon Valley companies received over the course of three high-tension congressional panels last month, held over a two-day span. In some ways, the hearings were anticlimactic. The three companies only sent their general counsels instead of their famous CEOs -- a point several lawmakers bemoaned during the public questioning.
But in another way, it was a spotlight that symbolized a turning point for Silicon Valley: For a long time, the tech industry has enjoyed a rosy relationship with the government and the public, but now, the honeymoon's over.
For decades, Silicon Valley -- the state of mind, not merely the region 40 miles south of San Francisco -- was seen as the fertile crescent of the future. It's a place where entrepreneurs saw themselves as strivers who embody the American spirit and the ingenuity that feeds it.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg visited a Ford factory in Michigan, in an attempt to get out of his San Francisco "bubble."
The tech industry says it's altruistic. Google is organizing the world's information, Facebook is connecting the world and bringing it closer together. And because the companies created jobs, wealth and services that genuinely make life easier, they also had a cozy rapport with policymakers. Their lobbying arms focused on benign stuff like tax reform and professional visas.
Then the presidential election happened -- the bitter, exhausting, Russian-meddled tweet-fest that engulfed the country as shocker after shocker led to the upset election of Donald Trump. The more than year-long campaign season, which even Trump described on his election night as sowing "wounds of division," exposed many things about Silicon Valley that Congress, and much of the country, did not like.
The tech giants have faced controversy before, but this time is different. Until now, no transgression reached the caliber or seriousness of the Russian meddling scandal. One reason lawmakers are being so aggressive is that they feel threatened, says Chris Hoofnagle, a professor at the UC Berkeley School of Information. Modern elections are played out on social media, and Facebook, Google and Twitter have all the power.
Tech CEOs, like Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey, have been under pressure to fix the problems on their platforms. 
"Both Democrats and Republicans are afraid," says  Hoofnagle. "This is the new playing field, and they can't control it."
After decades of goodwill, now it seems like the tech giants can't do anything right. Aside from the election controversy, Google, Twitter and Facebook have faced other pitfalls: Violent content. Online bullying. Algorithms gone haywire.
Google has been especially egregious at spreading fake news during national tragedies -- after both the Las Vegas and Texas shootings, the search engine promoted misinformation about the shooters. The company's woes go beyond its search engine, too. YouTube, owned by Google, has been under fire for letting disturbing videos aimed at kids past its filters.
Twitter has been a cesspool of bullying and a haven for white supremacists. Jack Dorsey, the company's chief executive, is playing a years-in-the-making game of whack-a-mole, overhauling the social network's abuse policies to make the environment less toxic. Last month, he suspended Twitter's verification program, which issues coveted blue check marks to notable Twitter accounts, partly because the badge gave too much of a spotlight to white supremacists.
Facebook Live, the social network's live video-streaming service, has broadcast killings, rape and other violence unchecked over the internet. Meanwhile, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder, took a tone-deaf virtual reality tour though hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico, and was swiftly called out for his cluelessness.
And that's not a complete list of their missteps.
"What Google and Facebook did, one of the ways they sold their products, was with emotion," Hoofnagle says. He cites their lofty mission statements, like Zuckerberg's "messianic" proclamation to connect the world. So when things go awry, the severe blowback is a consequence of leaning so hard into that emotional pitch. "Instead of just, 'I dislike Facebook,' it's 'I hate Facebook.'"
For much of this year, the tech giants have been on the defensive. Zuckerberg, after infamously saying last year that the notion of fake news affecting the election was "pretty crazy," began this year by posting a nearly 6,000-word manifesto on Facebook's new role in the world. He coupled that with a nationwide tour he said was meant to discover how Americans outside his San Francisco bubble live. It was slickly photographed and documented every step of the way. The trip even had its own logo.  
Zuckerberg drew criticism for taking a VR video tour of the hurricane devastation in Puerto Rico.
Google has sought to make nice with steel towns and the heartland as well. In October, CEO Sundar Pichai traveled to Pittsburgh to introduce a new program called "Grow with Google," aimed at training people for the "changing nature of work." It's a change that Google and the other tech giants had a major hand in making with their software and automated technology. Part of the program includes Google hosting sessions in which its staffers travel across the country, teaching people how to use Google's employment tools. The tour kicked off last month in Indianapolis. In all, Google pledged $1 billion to work-related initiatives around the world.
As Silicon Valley companies have grown to become the most powerful corporations in the world, their actions have had unintended consequences. In the Valley, the idea of "disruption" is celebrated. It stands for that relentless, scrappy drive to remake industries to be, in the eyes of entrepreneurs, faster, smarter, more efficient.
"That notion of disruption sounds interesting," says Bob O'Donnell, an analyst with Technalysis Research. "But when it comes to people's day-to-day lives, that's not necessarily what they want," if it means lost jobs or reading misinformation.
And that's something the tech giants will have to take to heart from here on out.  
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


A lighter of Android Oreo for smaller devices.
Entry-level phones may cost less than big hitters, but they come at the cost of space, speed and efficiency. Google's looking to change that with Android Go. 
Android Oreo (Go Edition) will launch Wednesday as part of the Android Oreo 8.1 rollout, and all Android Oreo devices with 512MB to 1GB of memory will be optimized for Android Go. Google said this will allow them to function properly as smartphones while doubling their available storage space. The rollout includes:
Android Go, introduced at Google I/O earlier this year, offers possibilities for Android users in emerging markets, kids trying out their first phones or anyone who needs a low-cost backup phone. In a Google blog post, Android director of product management Sagar Kamdar noted that of the 2 billion Android users around the world, more are in India than the US.
"To make sure billions more people can get access to computing, it's important that entry-level devices are fully functioning smartphones that can browse the web and use apps," Kamdar said.


Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg shared her stories about sexual harassment and urged companies to implement clearer policies to investigate claims of sexual misconduct at work.
A spotlight has been placed on sexual harassment and assault in the past month, with women around the world using the hashtag "MeToo" to share their experiences.
In a lengthy Monday Facebook post, Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg addressed Silicon Valley's diversity issues, and noted a concern that the movement could backfire.  
Sandberg said women don't need to just be hired, they also need to be mentored. "Four years ago, I wrote in Lean In that 64 percent of senior male managers were afraid to be alone with a female colleague, in part because of fears of being accused of sexual harassment." This, Sandberg said, is a factor that hurts women in the industry.
"The percentage of men who will be afraid to be alone with a female colleague has to be sky high right now," she wrote. "Whether [equality] means you take all your direct reports out to dinner or none of them, the key is to give men and women equal opportunities to succeed."   
The 1992 presidential race was once summed up in a pointed phrase: “It's the economy, stupid.”

Today, as headlines are...
Sandberg's post comes as high-profile scandals over alleged sexual misconduct by powerful men emerge, beginning with Hollywood's Harvey Weinstein scandal. The list includes Pixar co-founder John Lasseter, tech evangelist Robert Scoble and comedian Louis C.K., whose specials were removed from Netflix. 
Sandberg, a former executive at Google, pointed to instances of unwanted sexual advances from people in the industry, but noted they never came from her bosses. A power imbalance was the issue, she said, explaining "in every single one of these situations, they had more power than I did."
She outlined six steps in which organizations can help fight the issue:
"We have to be vigilant to make sure this happens," wrote Sandberg. "I have already heard the rumblings of a backlash: 'This is why you shouldn't hire women.' Actually, this is why you should."
It's not Sandberg's first time voicing about issues related to women in the workplace. In a Wall Street Journal op-ed in October, she pointed out that gender gaps at work remain despite more companies committing to gender diversity.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.


YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki says the video-sharing site will increase the number of employees reviewing content on the site to more than 10,000 in 2018.
YouTube plans to add more human moderators and to increase its use of machine learning to cut down on content that violates the video-sharing site's policies.
YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki said in a blog post published Monday evening that Google will increase the number of content moderators and other employees reviewing content and training algorithms to more than 10,000 in 2018. Wojcicki said it's taking the lessons learned in the past year tackling violent extremist content and applying it to other "problematic" content.
"Our goal is to stay one step ahead of bad actors, making it harder for policy-violating content to surface or remain on YouTube," Wojcicki wrote in her blog post.
The changes come in the wake of an advertiser boycott of the Google-owned video site over videos with children that were the target of sexually inappropriate comments. YouTube killed hundreds of accounts, removed more than 150,000 videos from the platform and turned off comments on more than 625,000 videos targeted by alleged child predators.
The company will also focus on training its machine-learning algorithm to help human reviewers identify and terminate accounts and comments violating the site's rules. Machine learning, a key aspect of artificial intelligence, has helped the company remove 150,000 videos containing violent extremist content since June, a process that "would have taken 180,000 people working 40 hours a week" to complete, Wojcicki said.
The company's moderators are now removing five times more videos than they used to, thanks to machine learning, she said. Those algorithms flag 98 percent of the videos removed for extremist content.
Wojcicki also said YouTube will take a "new approach" to advertising on the site, deciding which channels and videos should be eligible for advertising.
"We are planning to apply stricter criteria, conduct more manual curation, while also significantly ramping up our team of ad reviewers to ensure ads are only running where they should," she wrote.
YouTube said last month it had removed ads from nearly 2 million videos and more than 50,000 channels that tried to pass off as family-friendly but that featured inappropriate content. The company also outlined new rules to make YouTube safer for kids.
Update, Dec. 5 at 11:15 a.m. PT: Clarifies that Google is increasing the number of people reviewing content, not just YouTube.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.



It's been a long time coming, but Amazon has finally launched in Australia.
The world's largest e-tailer launched the full-fledged version of its Australian retail site on Monday, giving customers Down Under the opportunity to buy everything from gadgets to clothing at Amazon.com.au. (The site has hosted a Kindle store since 2013, but Aussies haven't been able to buy anything more than ebooks).
For shoppers used to next-day delivery and Amazon Prime, Amazon's arrival in Australia may seem pretty late. After all, the company has been operating in the US for more than two decades. And it already has a well established overseas presence; it began selling books in the UK and Germany in 1998, just three years after launching in the US.
The company says it's focused on the long game in Australia. Country manager Rocco Braeuniger says Amazon hopes to "earn the trust and the custom of Australian shoppers in the years to come."
The Australian store launched with 23 categories, including electronics, DVDs, PCs and software. It also stocked general merchandise, like clothing, baby and beauty products. 
Amazon.com.au also sells Kindle eReaders (which were previously only available in Australia through third-party retailers) and the Fire TV Stick streaming device. 
It's a decent showing for Amazon.com.au's first day of trading as an online department store. Still, it's a fraction of what Amazon offers in other markets, like the US and UK. In the US, the retailing behemoth offers everything from fresh groceries to music and video streaming. It also sells the Amazon Echo range of smart speakers, powered by its voice assistant Alexa.
Amazon confirmed it will launch at least some of the Echo range in Australia, alongside Alexa and Amazon Music Unlimited, in early 2018. Aussies also anticipate fresh grocery delivery -- the company has been quietly hiring for its AmazonFresh business since the start of the year -- though there's no official launch news on this front.
Aussies will still have to wait for is Amazon Prime. The subscription service offers unlimited free delivery for $99 a year as well as perks like two-hour delivery, free TV streaming and deals delivered through Alexa. Amazon says it will bring Prime shipping benefits to Aussies from mid-2018, though there's no word yet on price or perks. 
In the US, Amazon offers two-hour shipping thanks to a strong network of fulfillment centers that were built up over 20 years of operations, as well as its in-house Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) shipping service. In Australia, the company is starting without FBA and just one warehouse on the outskirts of Melbourne in Australia's southeast, so instant gratification might be a while off. 
So where to from here? 
There's no doubt Amazon's push into Australia will help it get a stronger foothold in the Asia Pacific region as part of its broader global expansion plans. Amazon brought its popular Prime membership service to China and India last year, and bought Middle East e-commerce site Souq.com this year. But with rivals like Chinese giant Alibaba waiting in the wings, Amazon will be looking for new ways to grow sales, which stood at $43.7 billion for the third quarter of 2017.
It's still early days for Amazon in Australia and the hype is strong. It remains to be seen if shoppers will stick around for the long haul.
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.


Target's new in-store "Wallet" mobile-payments system.
Target has added a new mobile-payments system to its iOS and Android apps that aims to speed along customers' checkout times in stores.
The new system, dubbed Wallet, uses a bar-code scanner at checkout to combine payment and Cartwheel coupons in a single transaction, the retailer said in a statement Monday.  Cartwheel is the retailer's digital coupons platform, offering users an app that lets them browse the retailer giant's current in-store offers.
"Wallet in the Target app makes checkout easier and faster than ever," Mike McNamara, Target's chief information and digital officer, said in a statement. "Guests are going to love the convenience of having payment, Cartwheel offers, Weekly Ad coupons, and GiftCards all in one place with Wallet."
Wallet is currently limited to use with Target's REDcard credit card  and debit card. The ability to redeem Target gift cards with Wallet is  coming soon, Target said.
Target's Wallet announcement comes two years after rival retailer Walmart jumped into the mobile-payments business, becoming the first US retailer to make its own push for consumers to use their smartphones as mobile wallets. Walmart Pay, which is based on a QR code checkout system, also differs from Target's Wallet by supporting all major credit and debit cards as well as prepaid and Walmart gift cards.
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
These are, apparently, much more intuitive. For an engineer, that is.
Poor thing.
There he was having to slum it in the real, retrograde world and everything was just so Neanderthal. 
That was the impression left by a Monday tweet reportedly emitted by Vahid Kazemi. According to his LinkedIn profile, he's a software engineer at Google-owned Waymo. The self-driving car company didn't immediately respond to a request seeking to confirm Kazemi's position.
Captured by Jalopnik, the tweet -- sadly since deleted -- offered this pained thought: "Have been driving in LA with a rental car that doesn't have the  autonomous features that my own car has. Almost crashed ten times and  ran over five people in two days! Humans aren't designed to drive cars!"
He's quite right. What were we designed for? Procreation? Sun worship? Eating messily? That's about it, isn't it?
Some might say that one small problem with engineers is they assume everything must be engineered for some purpose. I fear that actually we were just dumped here for a bit of a joke.
Talking of which, Kazemi seems to be lamenting the fact that his tweet reached a wider audience. 
Bad jokes quickly escalate on Twitter. Note to self only tweet exactly what you mean.
Sometimes, bad jokes on Twitter do just die. Occasionally, though, they get picked up because some see them as indicative of more than mere bad humor. Haughty Google-engineer superiority, for example.
Kazemi didn't immediately respond to request for comment sent on LinkedIn.
Of course, Kazemi's tweet does throw up a painful reality. As humans are forcibly transitioned into the self-driving world, there will be an awkward period.
It's already started. All too often when self-driving cars have been involved in accidents, Google (and other companies) have been keen to blame humans. 
It was only last year, for example, that Google finally accepted that its technology was partly to blame for a crash.
That's the danger of believing your own publicity. Last month, for example, a self-driving bus in Las Vegas got into a little scrape with a truck.
The City of Las Vegas offered this statement: "Had the truck had the same sensing equipment that the shuttle has the accident would have been avoided."
Dear human, you are stupid. You don't think like a machine. Aren't you embarrassed? 
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.


Views of Facebook's new office at Rathbone Place in London.
Facebook opened its new London headquarters on Monday with the announcement that it is creating 800 new jobs in the UK.
The new office is situated just off Oxford Street, the British capital's central shopping hub, and incorporates the company's first in-house startup incubator called LDN_LAB.
"Today's announcements show that Facebook is more committed than ever to the UK and in supporting the growth of the country's innovative start-ups," said Nicola Mendelsohn Facebook vice president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
"The UK's flourishing entrepreneurial ecosystem and international reputation for engineering excellence makes it one of the best places in the world to build a tech company."
The new hires will bring Facebook's UK headcount to 2,300 people by the end of 2018. More than half the staff working in the new office will focus on engineering, making it the company's largest engineering hub outside of the US. The opening of the new office marks the tenth anniversary of the social networking giant's presence in the UK.
"It is great to see a world-leading company like Facebook continuing to invest in London's renowned tech ecosystem, despite the uncertainties surrounding Brexit," said Julian David, CEO of techUK, the British tech industry promotional body. "The message is clear: London is open, and tech is the flag bearer."
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition.



The Australian government wants to know if internet giants like Facebook and Google are unfairly damaging news media in the country. 
The Australian Compeition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) said on Monday it'll be starting an inquiry to examine how new digital platforms are impacting Australian journalism and advertising, and to see if that impact benefits Australians or detriments them.
"Through our inquiry, the ACCC will look closely at the impact of digital platforms on the level of choice and quality of news and content being produced by Australian journalists," said the watchdog's chairman, Rod Sims. "The ACCC goes into this inquiry with an open mind and will study how digital platforms such as Facebook and Google operate to fully understand their influence."
It comes as Facebook, used by 2 billion people a month, struggles to battle its fake news problem, which some worry may have influenced the 2016 US presidential election. In September, CEO Mark Zuckerberg disclosed that Facebook sold $100,000 worth of ads to Russian-linked accounts. Later that month, Facebook said Russian-backed content, which also includes unpaid "organic" posts, was seen by more than 126 million people on the social network.  
"While news is only a small part of the content shared on our services, we take our role in the media ecosystem very seriously and invest significantly in products that support publishers," a Facebook spokesperson said. "We look forward to a thorough inquiry into the Australian media market."
Google was contacted for comment.
Outside of quality control, the ACCC said the investigation will also explore how digital platforms are helping or hurting the media business. 
"There are growing concerns that digital platforms are affecting traditional media's ability to fund the development of content," Sims said, with the ACCC's press release pointing to the continuing trend of advertisers spending more on digital media and less on print media.   
The ACCC's preliminary report will be released in December 2018, followed by a full report in June 2019.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
The words say it all.
Sexual harassment has been in the news lately.
The tech world hasn't exactly been immune from the controversy. From VC Steve Jurvetson to Pixar boss John Lasseter to, well, Uber, the accusations and departures have been swift and sudden.
But is this really some novel development?
The women of "Saturday Night Live" and host Saoirse Ronan decided to offer a little perspective.
They offered a deceptively girl-groupy ditty called "Welcome to Hell." In bubblegum overtones, they sang of the grim realities of being a woman for, oh, the last few hundred years or more.
"All these big, cool, powerful guys are turning out to be, what's the word? Habitual predators," purred Aide Bryant.
"Cat's out of the bag," said Kate McKinnon. "Women get harassed all the time."
"This been the damn world," Cecily Strong explained. 
But why the Spice Girls/Bananarama presentation? "This ain't a girl group. We just travel in a pack for safety," revealed Bryant. 
The cheery atmosphere emphasizes the sheer, everyday horror. 
And, as Leslie Jones interjected, it's even worse for women of color.
Still, some will only point to the "sad" results. 
"Now 'House of Cards' is ruined and that really sucks," mused Ronan. "Well, here's a list of stuff that's ruined for us."
Simple things like parking and walking and, yes, Uber. Everyday behaviors that, for women, may be fraught with dangers. 
It's tempting to think the recent mini-purge involving names as famous as Harvey Weinstein, Charlie Rose, Matt Lauer and Amazon Studios boss Roy Price, may bring a new atmosphere of respect.
But will anything really change? 
After all, very little has in the longest time. I wonder which way Alabama will be voting on December 12.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Not worth it?
I think of T-Mobile most often when I see it's insulted Verizon and when I see someone wear a pink tutu at a party.
Still, it's presented itself very well over the last couple of years as the carrier that thinks most about customers, especially with its push toward unlimited data.
Could it possibly be the store that would guide me toward buying the right phone?
Regular readers might know that I've been visiting various retailers to see how they present different phones to customers. You know, in person.
I've been to both a Verizon store and a Best Buy to learn about Pixel 2. In both cases, I was guided toward a Samsung Galaxy.
I went to an AT&T store, where I was told that the Galaxy Note 8 was a better phone than the iPhone X. 
What would T-Mobile tell me? 
I was moved to visit, as the carrier offered a 2-for-1 promotion on the iPhone 8 last week. 
Did this mean that T-Mobile was selling so many iPhone X's that it was desperate to get rid of the lesser upgrade from last year's phone? 
Was iPhone X the phone that would tear me away from my trusty, now slightly rusty-looking iPhone 6?
I went to a San Francisco Bay Area T-Mobile store to find out. 
It all started well enough
A sprightly salesman approached me as I looked over the iPhone range.
I showed him my iPhone 6. He didn't sneer. This was a good start. Not everyone looks so kindly on old phones in the Bay Area.
He swiftly dismissed the iPhone 8 as a minor upgrade. 
"You've got wireless charging, faster processor and you've got the glass back. But it's pretty much the same phone as the one you've got," he said.
"But wait. Don't you have a 2-for-1 promotion going on for these right now?"
"That ended Monday. We've got a 2-for-1 on the Samsungs, but not on the 8's."
Was this the moment I was going to be told Samsungs were better? Not yet, it seemed.
"Oh, so did you have the promotion because you needed to get rid of a lot of 8's?" I asked.
"No," he replied, a little too quickly. "It was just a promotion."
I then asked him about the iPhone X. He couldn't show me how Face ID works, because each phone can only work with one person's face. 
He insisted, though, that it was secure. "I think there's a million-to-one chance that someone else's face will open your phone," he said.
iPhone X? It's not worth the extra 200 bucks
Then things took a strange turn.
He suddenly volunteered that it took more time to get to all your apps on the X than it did with the iPhone 8 Plus.
"With the 8 Plus, you just double-click on the home button and, look, there they all are," he said. "With iPhone X, it's messier." He showed me how much messier, as he made several gestures to achieve the same effect.
So the future of the smartphone takes you back in time, not forward?
"A lot of people aren't buying the X because they miss the home button," he said. "Look, there's not much difference between the X and the 8 Plus. The camera's the same, the screen size is almost the same. All the iPhone people in this store upgraded to an 8 Plus, not an X."
"Why?"
"Because they didn't think the X was worth the extra 200 bucks."
I confess to being surprised. I've enjoyed the candor of all the salespeople I've talked to. But here was one who was trying to sell me what most people would tell me is a lesser phone.
"So why do people buy the iPhone X?"
"One of the biggest reasons is the animojis," he said, with something of a chuckle. These require your facial features from Face ID and animate them into, say, a unicorn or a pile of excreta. A pile of singing excreta, if you want to enjoy animoji karaoke.
"But these are just younger people, right?"
"No, all ages. It's incredible."
And the best phone is...the one that's dead
"So which phone do you think is the best?" I asked.
"For me, the Note 8," he said, without hesitation. "I had an iPhone for a while when the Note 7 thing happened. But when the Note 8 came out, I went straight back to it."
He explained that, for him, Android was better because he could "do more" with it, especially download free apps. I'd heard this from several salespeople. This one loved the Note 8's big screen.
It was then that he admitted his Note 8 had died just before Thanksgiving. "Just totally dead," he said. "I couldn't believe it."
He had a temporary phone but would be going straight back to a new Note 8 shortly, he said.
Now that was brand loyalty. And no, unlike staff in other carrier stores, he said he didn't get a work phone from T-Mobile.
"So are you saying I should get a Note 8?" I asked. "Isn't it hard to switch from iOS to Android?"
"It's simple," he replied. "We do it all here for you."
This was an incentive I hadn't heard before. But he stopped short of telling me I should go Android.
"You should stick with iPhones," he concluded, with a tinge of pity. "It's what you know." 
OK. So, finally, which iPhone?
This salesman was utterly charming, if occasionally distracted by a sudden influx of customers in the store. 
He took me over to the iPhone comparison chart to make his final pitch.
"See here. With the 8 Plus, you even get one hour's more browsing than you do with the X," he said. (This is true. 13 vs. 12.)
He could see I wasn't quite convinced.
"What it comes down to is this," he said. "If you take a lot of selfies and you like animojis, get an X. If you don't, get an 8 Plus."
He got pulled away by another customer and became so involved with that customer that I ended up leaving the store. 
And I underline, as always, that this was just one visit to one store.
On the plus side, he hadn't tried to move me over to Android, as salespeople in other stores had. On the 8 Plus side, he seemed determined that the big, but not so novel, phone was right for me.
I asked T-Mobile whether salespeople are incentivized to sell certain phones at certain times. The company declined to comment.
Was he trying to sell me the phone he thought would be best for me? Or was he trying to sell me the phone he wanted to sell me? That's the real-life customer dilemma. 
I dwelt on this for a moment, before another thought invaded: At no store has a salesperson told me the iPhone X is the best phone or even, in this case, the best iPhone. Even though my colleague Scott Stein, who knows about these things, insists it is definitely the latter.
That's a little odd, isn't it?


American says this can be you after all, this holiday season.
Talk about a sigh of relief.
American Airlines said Friday it has solved a scheduling snafu that allowed too many pilots to take off work during the December holiday season. Typically, holidays are doled out based on seniority.
"In short, if Santa is flying, so is American," the airline said in a statement.
The trouble started last week when American, one of the world's largest airlines, realized the scheduling glitch potentially left thousands of flights without a pilot during what will be a busy travel season. More than 30 million people are expected to take to the skies in the next month.
The Allied Pilots Association, which represents the airline's pilots, initially balked at the company's efforts to mitigate the problem, including using backup staff and offering pilots 150 percent of their hourly wages to work. 
American spent the past week giving updates about ongoing successes filling flights, and on Thursday it said most flights had already been staffed.
Now it appears the issue has been fully resolved. We can go back to worrying how fast the TSA lines will go.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
An unseen presence.
How many times a day do people tell you that you're wrong? How many times do you get bullied, one way or another, and told to back off?
A new ad from Apple-owned Beats, narrated by Michael K. Williams, tells you not to listen. To anyone. 
Interspersing the tales of tennis great Serena Williams, actor and singer Kris Wu, actor Michael K. Williams and soccer star Neymar, the ad suggests that to succeed you have to shut off your ears to conquer your fears.
Trolls will call you weird. But if you believe in your talents, then focus on those and rise above the noise.
It's a powerful statement. One that will upset some -- including, perhaps, the president -- as it features neither the face nor the voice, but the shirt and the fight of Colin Kaepernick.
The former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, currently without a team, has filed a collusion grievance against the NFL. He believes that the owners have blackballed him because he began to protest the treatment of black people by authorities in a simple way -- he first sat and then knelt during the National Anthem at games.
Here, Beats is holding him up as another example of someone who tries to rise above the noise, in order to achieve the aims in which he believes.
Kaepernick is so above the noise that he doesn't appear in the ad. Instead, a young black kid wears his shirt and stands up to the (literal) storm. 
It's a powerful image.  
Of course, Kaepernick has a history with Beats. He once said he was fined $100,000 for wearing the headphones instead of those of Bose, which happened to be an NFL sponsor. Now, though, he faces altogether a different kind of hissing sound.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Facebook is again in the hot seat over its ad platform.
A ProPublica investigation last October into Facebook's automated advertising platform demonstrated people could target housing advertisements to -- and away -- from specific races and ethnicities. In response, the world's largest social network said it was revamping policies and tools to prevent that from happening. 
But the social network's fix isn't working all the time, according to a report published on Thursday by ProPublica, which found Facebook is still letting discriminatory housing ads get through on its platform.
ProPublica said it bought dozens of housing ads on Facebook last week, and asked the system avoid showing them to certain audiences, including African Americans, people interested in wheelchair ramps, Jews and Spanish speakers. The report said every ad was approved by Facebook within minutes.
The groups excluded from seeing those ads are all protected under the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits people from discriminating against potential renters or buyer on the basis of "race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin."
Facebook's ad policies have become a major point of scrutiny in the past year. Along with the concerns over fair housing, Facebook was also criticized because its ad platform allowed people to target automated interest categories including "Jew haters" and "why jews ruin the world."
The social network has also been in the hot seat over Russian trolls abusing it to meddle in last year's US election. Foreign agents used a combination of paid ads as well as unpaid "organic" posts to reach 126 million people on the platform. Facebook, along with rivals Google and Twitter, faced congressional hearings over the matter on Capitol Hill earlier this month.
In a statement, Ami Vora, vice president of product management at Facebook, blamed the incident on a "technical failure."
"This was a failure in our enforcement and we're disappointed that we fell short of our commitments," she wrote. "The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure."
In February, Facebook added additional safeguards to its ad platform, including more human reviewers and machine learning software, to try to stamp out abuse of its targeting tools. Vora also pointed out that the changes to the system flagged "millions" of ads that would have violated the policies.
She also said "tens of thousands" of advertisers have confirmed they are in compliance with Facebook's tighter restrictions. Right now, Facebook requires those compliance notifications from everyone who wants to post an ad for housing, employment or credit opportunities. But now Facebook will extend the requirement to all "advertisers who choose to exclude some users from seeing their ads on Facebook."
1/6 Facebook said last year it was working to identify and prevent discrimination in ads for rental housing. It appears to have failed. We @aclu are deeply disappointed. https://t.co/lAJm8IKtBg
Rachel Goodman, staff attorney for the ACLU's racial program, said in a series of tweets on Wednesday that the incident shows Facebook needs to be more transparent. 
"We're glad FB continues to express desire to get this right, but this story highlights the need for greater transparency and accountability for FB," she wrote. "Had outside researchers been able to examine the system FB created to catch these ads, they could have spotted this problem and ended the mechanism for discrimination sooner."
First published November 21, 3:58 p.m. PTUpdate, November 22, 9:35 a.m. PT: adds comment from Rachel Goodman, staff attorney for the ACLU's racial program.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place. 


Reddit's home page was awash with red in protest over net neutrality.
The FCC's chief has dubbed it a "failed" attempt at "micromanaging the internet." Digital civil liberties activists call it a principle that must be upheld.
Now Reddit has weighed in on net neutrality, and its users are seeing red.
Net neutrality is the principle that all internet traffic should be treated equally and that internet service providers can't prioritize their content over competitors'. 
See also: Net neutrality repeal means your internet may never be the same
But this week, Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai revealed his plan for a full repeal of the Obama-era regulations. The move has been seen as a big win for broadband and wireless companies, but digital rights groups say it could open the door to internet providers dictating how their users access the internet.
And those internet users are getting fired up.
Reddit's homepage, the so-called "front page of the internet," was painted with crimson on Tuesday night as dozens of subreddits lit up the social network, all linking to the same thing: the pro-net neutrality website called Battle for the Net.
Backed by digital rights groups Free Press, Demand Progress and Fight for the Future, Battle for the Net gives visitors a direct link to call and lobby their members of Congress over net neutrality.
"This is your last chance to stop ISPs from messing up your Internet," the site reads.
The site has been upvoted on popular subreddits like r/books, r/NYKnicks and even r/Nascar upwards of 20,000 times each.
It's not the first time issues around net neutrality have made their way onto Reddit -- the site is often a hotbed of discussion around issues to do with regulation of technology and the internet -- but this week's move by the FCC has galvanized users.
After all, any time you mobilize book lovers and Nascar fans into the same movement, you know it must be big.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Black Friday deals: See every Black Friday 2017 deal we've found so far.


Uber's background checks face scrutiny. 
Uber is under fire again about whether its background checks are thorough enough.
Colorado regulators fined the ride-hailing company $8.9 million for allowing 57 drivers with criminal or motor vehicle offenses onto its network. One of the drivers was a convicted felon and habitual offender who used a fake name to sign up as an Uber driver, according to state officials.
"We have determined that Uber had background check information that should have disqualified these drivers under the law, but they were allowed to drive anyway," Doug Dean, director of the Colorado Public Utilities Commission, CPUC, said in a statement on Monday. "These actions put the safety of passengers in extreme jeopardy."
Uber acknowledged that some drivers who shouldn't have been allowed on its service had been approved. The company blamed the problem on an error in its background check process and has deactivated some driver accounts as part of its fix.
"This error affected a small number of drivers and we immediately took corrective action," an Uber spokeswoman said in an emailed statement. "We will continue to work closely with the CPUC to enable access to safe, reliable transportation options for all Coloradans."
Uber is one of the largest ride-hailing services on the planet, operating in 75 countries. As the company has grown, it's been criticized for allegedly letting criminals drive for it. Reports of alleged assault, rape and kidnapping by Uber drivers often make headlines.
A handful of other states, including California, Massachusetts, Maryland and Texas, have launched investigations into Uber, alleging the company routinely fails to adequately screen drivers and has hired drivers with criminal histories. At least half a dozen lawsuits have been filed against the company based on these allegations.
Colorado criminal investigators crosschecked Uber's driver records with information from the Colorado Crime Information Center and court databases. Of the 57 drivers they found, 12 had felony convictions and 17 had major moving vehicle violations, such as drunk or reckless driving. They also found 63 drivers with either a suspended, revoked or cancelled driver's license.
It's illegal in Colorado for people to commercially drive passengers if they have felony convictions, alcohol or drug-related driving offenses, unlawful sexual offenses or major moving vehicle violations. It's also required that ride-hailing companies check the backgrounds of their drivers for such offenses.
"PUC staff was able to find felony convictions that the company's background checks failed to find, demonstrating that the company's background checks are inadequate," Dean said. "In other cases, we could not confirm criminal background checks were even conducted by Uber."
The ride-hailing service uses an outside company called Checkr to do its background checks. It searches for felonies, violent crimes and sexual offenses over the past seven years. Most taxi drivers are required to have FBI fingerprint background checks.
Initially, Uber was uncooperative when the CPUC asked the company to hand over its driver records, the regulator said. In fact, a $2,500 portion of the fine against Uber is for the "failure to provide response within 72 hours of a request by an enforcement official," which is a civil penalty. 
The CPUC investigators also found evidence that at least four of the penalized drivers might still be driving for Uber, even though the company indicated that all drivers in question had been removed. 
Uber didn't respond to request for comment beyond its statement.
Colorado investigators said they conducted a similar inquiry into Lyft last year and found no violations. 
Uber can pay half of the fine within the next 10 days to resolve the case or it can contest it before an administrative law judge.
First published Nov. 21, 12:38 p.m. PT.Update, 1:52 p.m. PT: Adds additional information from the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."


When Uber suddenly needed a new boss, HP Enterprise CEO Meg Whitman's name lit up. The former HP CEO, eBay CEO and one-time California gubernatorial candidate often seems to be on the shortlist for such things.
But no, she tweeted: "We still have a lot of work to do at HPE and I am not going anywhere."
(3/3) We have a lot of work still to do at HPE and I am not going anywhere. Uber's CEO will not be Meg Whitman.
That was four months ago. But Tuesday, HP Enterprise announced Whitman will step down from her CEO post on Feb. 1 in favor of current HPE president Antonio Neri. Neri will join the company's board of directors as well.   
While Whitman will stay on the company's board of directors, it seems like her public role has been diminshed: from CEO and chairwoman of HP, to chairwoman of HP Inc. and CEO of HP Enterprise, and now simply a member of HPE's board.
(Hewlett-Packard split into two companies in 2014: HP Inc, the company's consumer-facing computer division, and HP Enterprise, which offers servers, software and services. Whitman originally served as chairwoman of HP Inc. as well, but stepped down in July 2017.)
"Now is the right time for Antonio and a new generation of leaders to take the reins of HPE. I have tremendous confidence that they will continue to build a great company that will thrive well into the future," Whitman said in a statement.
Update, 3:30p.m. PT: On the company's earnings call, Whitman answered a follow-up question about why she's stepping down now: "[T]he next CEO of this company needs to be a deeper technologist, and that's exactly what Antonio is. He's been with the company 22 years. He is a trained computer engineer and has worked in almost every business of this company. So I just think it's the right thing."
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.


On Tuesday's podcast, we take a look at AT&amp;T's legal battle with the Justice Department, as well as a major hacking indictment and some cybersecurity tips. 
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by the CNET News team in New York and producer Bryan VanGelder.
Check out the extended shows on YouTube.


The makers of this popular Chinese game just made it to the global tech elite club.
Remember the Chinese company that offered a helping hand to Snap? Well it just became the first in Asia to be worth more than half-a-trillion dollars.
Tencent, the owner of WhatsApp-esque WeChat in China, crossed the $500 billion mark when markets closed in Hong Kong yesterday, Bloomberg reports. It now joins global tech elites including Apple, Alphabet, Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft.
The news comes less than a week after Tencent posted stellar profits of 18 billion yuan (about $2.7 billion) and 69 percent increase in overall profit year-on-year, amid rising speculation that it'll be valued over half a trillion ahead of next year.
Tencent is one of China's three top tech companies, alongside e-commerce company Alibaba and search giant Baidu, who are collectively known as BAT. The company may have become the first to achieve the milestone, but Alibaba isn't trailing far behind; it's now valued at almost $482 billion.
Tencent's exceptional growth is in part boosted by its game business, which includes popular titles League of Legends and Honour of Kings. Honour of Kings held the top spot on Apple's App Store in China for nearly a year, and caused so much concern about kids playing the game too much that Tencent had to limit playtime for those under 12. A fanatic Chinese couple went so far as to name their child after the game. Last month, the company said it would bring a version to the US called Arena of Valor.
On top of that, Tencent's WeChat continues to do well, closing in on the 1 billion user base of its foreign counterpart, WhatsApp.
CNET has reached out to Tencent for a comment.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.


Nigel Eccles is leaving FanDuel, the company he co-founded in 2009.
FanDuel CEO Nigel Eccles is leaving the daily fantasy sports site he co-founded in 2009, just months after the site failed to merge with rival DraftKings.
Eccles will be replaced at the second-largest daily fantasy sports site by Matt King, FanDuel's chief financial officer from 2014 to 2016, effective immediately, the company said Monday. Eccles is also leaving the company's board, where he had served as chairman.
The shake-up comes five months after FanDuel and DraftKings called off a much-discussed merger amid intense scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission. The two companies, which control over 90 percent of the US market, agreed to join forces in November 2016.
The daily fantasy sports industry has experienced huge growth in recent years, with players spending an estimated $3.26 billion in 2016, up about 4 percent from a year earlier, according to an annual market study by Eilers & Krejcik Gaming. But that rapid growth has led to questions about how such contests, which offer cash prizes to contestants who compete in abbreviated daily versions of the traditional season-long fantasy sports leagues, might be violating state gambling laws.
As a result, DraftKings has agreed to stop accepting paid entries in nine states, while FanDuel has closed up shop in 10 states.
"Matt is the leader to capitalize on the momentum in the sports technology space to take FanDuel to the next level," Eccles said in a statement.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


The tight security of Apple phones is yet again an issue in a mass shooting.
Devin Patrick Kelley walked into a tiny church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, on Nov. 5 and began firing into the Sunday service. He killed 26 people and injured another 20 in the worst mass shooting in the state's history. Investigators searching his vehicle afterward found an Apple iPhone SE covered with blood stains.
The Texas Rangers are trying to access his phone's data, and they've served Apple with a search warrant.
According to court records obtained by the San Antonio Express-News, the search warrant was granted on Nov. 9 for files stored locally on Kelley's phone, as well as any iCloud data that may exist on Apple's servers. It's unclear whether authorities have managed to retrieve any of Kelley's data yet.
Apple's policy on law enforcement requests for data is that it "will only provide content in response to a search warrant issued upon a showing of probable cause." The company previously faced conflict with the FBI over requests to unlock a phone belonging to one of the attackers in a 2015 mass shooting that killed 14 people in San Bernardino, California. Investigators were eventually able to access that phone's data without Apple's help.
An Apple spokesperson told CNET on Monday that the company does not comment on law enforcement matters but added that aside from the warrant, the company has yet to receive any request from law enforcement for technical assistance with the device.
On Nov. 8, Apple said it had contacted the FBI. "We were shocked and saddened by the violence in Texas...and we join the world in grieving for the families and community that lost so many loved ones," Apple said in a statement on Nov. 8. "Our team immediately reached out to the FBI after learning ... that investigators were trying to access a mobile phone. We offered assistance and said we would expedite our response to any legal process they send us."


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Was I sold? Or unsold?
AT&T just wouldn't let go.
First, it emailed me on iPhone X preordering day: "Krzysztof, your wait for iPhone X is over." 
It wasn't. When I went online, I could order only the 64GB version. And only in silver. 
Still, AT&T persisted. On iPhone launch day, it emailed me twice. 
"Krzysztof, it's time. Order your new iPhone X online today." blared the first email, at 3:43 p.m. PT.
I didn't react. So at 11:23 that night: "Krzysztof, your new iPhone X has arrived!" 
Wait, I'd ordered it without knowing? Not quite. Still, I went online again. And again, I could order only a 64GB.
I still wasn't sure I wanted an iPhone X. I wanted to handle it a lot more, so I had an idea. Why not go along to an AT&T store and see if someone there could sell me on the phone? 
After all, I'd already been to a Verizon store and a Best Buy to see whether Pixel 2 was the perfect choice. And I've generally been fascinated by the sales process of late.
Lights. FaceID. Action.Off, then, I went to a Bay Area AT&T store. 
The minute I walked in, I was cheerily accosted by a salesman eager to help. I explained that I still had an iPhone 6 and that I was looking for a new phone life. 
I added that AT&T had been emailing me quite consistently. "Apple's probably paying them a lot of money to do that," he said with a chuckle. 
He then showed me the full range of iPhones. Yes, even the SE. He explained that the two iPhone 8 models didn't impress him much.
"What about the X?" I asked.
As in so many stores, it's hard to get a true feel of a phone when it has a security cable attached. Still, the salesman had a different approach from many phone salespeople I've encountered. They always started with the camera and how wonderful it was.
This salesman began with FaceID and how it's a much quicker way to unlock the phone.
"Have you tried it?" I asked.
"No."
"Do you have any phones in the store?" 
He explained that he didn't. Indeed, even if I decided to buy one, he wasn't sure whether I'd get it in December or January. 
"I heard that there were 2 million phones and 4 million preorders," he told me. I hadn't heard that.
So which phone is the best?He was an extremely engaging character who didn't seem entirely sold on the phone. 
I asked about the glass back and how easily it might break. He glossed over it and explained that even when people came into the store with iPhone problems -- AT&T sends people to the nearest Apple Store, of course -- none were complaining about the iPhone X.
He revealed that he was an iPhone owner, but only because he was so committed to Apple Music. I'd never heard anyone say that before.
I then asked the simplest question: "Is iPhone X the best phone I can buy?"
"Nah. The Note 8 is better," he replied, with pleasing candor. 
He explained that, for him, what was most important in a phone was the ability to watch movies for free. 
"With Android, I can download apps that let me do that. I can't do that with my iPhone," he said. "And the Note 8 has a really big screen."
"Ah, could I look at one?"
Instead of taking me over to the Samsung area of the store, he simply took one out of his pocket. It turned out to be his work phone. 
"Look," he said. "Here's the big difference. It's the screen. Samsung has been making TVs forever, yeah? So they've perfected it. This new iPhone, it's the first time they've ever done an OLED screen."
I remain fascinated and perplexedI nodded, while thinking loudly to myself, "Samsung makes the iPhone X screens, doesn't it?"
No, I didn't say it. I was far too mesmerized by the experience to interrupt its flow.
I was, as I have been though all my store visits, impressed with how open salespeople can be. He'd handed me his work phone to play with as I saw fit. He was prepared to give his honest view and even admit that he'd learned about iPhone X by trial and error.
"You don't get more commission if you sell me the Galaxy Note 8 instead of the iPhone X, do you?" I asked.
"Nah. It makes no difference what phone I sell you. We don't make money on the phones. We want to sell you the entertainment that goes on them," he said. 
He did add that very few people are moving from iPhone to Android, even though he insisted that, if you give it time, Android is the better experience.
I asked how much practice he'd had on the iPhone X before it had launched. 
"I learned on the job. At first, I didn't even know how to unlock it," he admitted. He said he'd been given a few details about the new phone beforehand, but he wouldn't characterize it as training.
AT&T didn't respond to a request for comment.
This was just one store visit, yet I heard the same story from this salesman that I'd heard from others. 
"iPhones are for people who want it simple. Androids are for people who are more nerdy. Silicon Valley -- now that's a lot more Android. Here, 90 percent of our business is iPhones," he said.
I want it simple, but I left a touch perplexed by a system that doesn't really let you thoroughly inspect a product and doesn't even provide enough products for customers to hold and enjoy. 
It seems that many people encounter the hype and buy on faith. This is the world of online shopping, after all.
When I got home, I checked my emails. AT&T had written again. No, it wasn't about the iPhone X. 
Instead, it read: "Krzysztof. The new AT&T THANKS app is your access to exclusive benefits."
AT&T wanted to thank me? Why, that's nice.
Does the Mac still matter? Apple execs explain why the MacBook Pro was over four years in the making, and why we should care.
CNET en Español: Get all your tech news and reviews in Spanish.


Women in tech have stronger skills than men, according to a Brookings Institution report.
Think men's brains are better suited for tech jobs? Think again.
A report from the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution measured men's and women's digital scores, and found that women had stronger skills than men do.
The Brookings report, called "Digitalization and the American Workforce," looked at "information about the knowledge, skills, tools and technology; education and training; work context; and work activities required" for high tech jobs, and it gave women a digital score of 48 versus 45 for men.
But despite that higher aptitude, the report says, more men than women are filling the highest-level digital jobs in "computer, engineering and management fields, as well as lower-digital occupations such as transportation, construction, natural resources, and building and grounds occupations."
It's a familiar issue given tech's annual parade of diversity reports that show women's share of the employment pie falling below 30 percent in technical roles and thinning out even further in management and leadership positions.
"While digitalization holds out significant opportunities for less-educated or historically marginalized workers or groups to move up the employment ladder, too few of them appear to be making that progress," the report said.
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


The visitor center on Apple's spaceship campus has exclusive gear like tote bags, playing cards and baseball caps. 
You no longer have to be an Apple employee or journalist to visit the company's fancy new campus.
The Apple Park Visitor Center in Cupertino, California, opened to the public at 9 a.m. PT on Friday. CNET got a peek at the building an hour before dozens of Apple fans poured through the glass doors. 
Anyone who's been in a redesigned Apple Store will find the decor familiar -- long wooden tables covered with Apple gadgets like the iPhone X and tall glass walls that almost make you feel like you're outside when you're not.
A visitor to the Apple Park Visitor Center uses an AR-equipped iPad to peer inside Apple's spaceship office building. 
Along with the typical store format, this location offers a few things others don't: a cafe with the same Caffè Macs coffee Apple employees drink and a rooftop terrace that gives you a view of the spaceship office building where employees work. You can buy Apple Park schwag like T-shirts, tote bags and baseball caps, and Apple has installed a specially designed, 11,000-pound aluminum alloy model of the campus in an exhibition space. Hold an iPad in front of the model and an augmented reality app will let you peer inside the spaceship campus, fitness center or other areas of Apple Park. 
"We had people hanging off the top of the building with harnesses to use 360 cameras to photograph the landscape," Peter Russell-Clarke, an Apple industrial designer, said during a meeting with a small group of reporters. The company used drone footage to "get the light quality and colors of the landscape just right," he added. Apple also used motion capture to feature people in the buildings.
Those baseball caps? Also specially created by Apple's designers. The typical metal button at the top of the hat is missing so your Beats headphones fit more smoothly, said Enrique Atienza, the senior market director who oversees Apple's US stores. 
"This will be the only place in the world where you'll be able to find Apple Park merchandise," Atienza said during the meeting with reporters. It all "has been designed in close partnerships with the industrial design team here in Cupertino that basically works on all of our products." 
The Apple Park Visitor Center has a rooftop deck that overlooks the spaceship campus.
Apple's flashy new $5 billion campus was one of the last projects worked on by company co-founder Steve Jobs before his death in October 2011. The famously detail-oriented leader had envisioned Apple's new headquarters as a beacon of innovation and a place for the company's employees to continue their efforts to release groundbreaking products. Apple has seen its headcount balloon since its early years, and has outgrown its offices at 1 Infinite Loop, which hold about 2,800 employees. Apple Park can hold 12,000.
The new campus has custom-built door handles, thousands of trees and a 100,000-square-foot fitness and wellness facility that boasts a two-story yoga room laid out in custom distressed stone. It also has a flashy new building, called the Steve Jobs Theater, to hosts its product launches, including that of the iPhone X event in September.  
The visitor center is 18 feet tall and 200 feet long, said Ben Dobbin, an architect with Foster + Partners, the firm that worked with Apple to design the new campus. The roof structure rests on two support "stone-clad cores" to give the downstairs a more open feel and look, he said during the meeting with reporters. The glass walls with curved corners, plus 18-foot tall pivot doors that open the cafe to the outdoor terrace create "this seamless experience between inside and outside," Dobbin said. 
Those were all things people lined up to see Friday.
Sandy Porter traveled from Connecticut to support her son, who works at the Apple Park Visitor Center. "My son has wanted to do this since he was 11 years old," she said. Her favorite feature was the AR model of the campus. "The fact that we can see what goes on in there, how it looks and what they've done is amazing," Porter said. 
Marilia Guimaraes, who makes videos about Apple products, traveled from Brazil for the visitor center opening. She also attended recent store openings in Chicago and Miami. 
"I'm an Apple fan," said Guimaraes, who arrived at the visitor center two hours before it opened. "It's a beautiful store."
Update at 2:15 p.m. PT with additional comments from executives and store visitors.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Ready to go to a virtual cinema without leaving your house?
Want to get out to the movies more often but don't want to deal with crowded parking, overpriced popcorn or yappy patrons Paramount Pictures might be able to help.
The movie studio is creating a virtual reality movie theater, according to Deadline.com, that will bring the experience of the theater to you. Movie fans will only have to strap on a VR headset to find themselves sitting in a movie theater with a huge projection screen in front of them.
The effort, a collaboration of Facebook's Oculus, Samsung, HTC, Microsoft and others, is yet another facet of VR's evolution and, perhaps, a new distribution channel for movie studios. Once confined to the realm of science-fiction movies like Walt Disney's "Tron," virtual reality has attracted the attention of companies large and small with promises of transporting goggle-wearing users to other environments, such as outer space or the stone age.
To kick off the VR movie theater, Paramount plans to host a showing of "Top Gun" in 3D on Dec. 3. Movie fans with VR headsets can catch the movie in 30-minute increments at Bigscreenvr.com. The experience is meant to replicate what it felt like to watch the 1986 blockbuster in the theater with other patrons.
Paramount also has plans for other movie showings in the new year, Deadline reported.
Paramount representatives didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Denise Young Smith, Apple's head of diversity and inclusion, plans to leave the company at the end of the year. 
Apple's head of diversity and inclusion plans to leave the company after less than a year in her role. 
Denise Young Smith, the vice president who reported to CEO Tim Cook, will depart Apple at the end of the year. She was named to the newly created vice president role in May after serving as Apple's head of HR. She has worked at Apple since 1997 in a variety of roles. 
Last week, Cornell University named Young Smith its new executive-in-residence at Cornell Tech starting in January. In her new role at Cornell, Smith will "work with students to build an early career-stage awareness of inclusive leadership and diverse talent," the university said. 
Christie Smith, who spent 17 years at Deloitte and most recently served as head of human resources at cancer detection startup Grail, according to her LinkedIn profile, will replace Young Smith. Instead of reporting directly to Cook, Smith will report to Deidre O'Brien, Apple's recently appointed vice president of HR. 
"We deeply believe that diversity drives innovation," Apple said in a statement. "We're thrilled to welcome an accomplished leader like Christie Smith to help us continue the progress we've made toward a more diverse workplace."
The news comes only days after Apple released its annual diversity report. It showed some progress in hiring underrepresented minorities, but the percentage of women at the company as of July 2017 didn't change from last year's level of about a third. When it came to underrepresented minorities, Apple reported a 1 percentage point increase to 23 percent. 
Apple and other tech companies have been trying to diversify their workforce, which includes boosting the number of female and minority employees. Under CEO Tim Cook's leadership, Apple has put itself at the front of social issues like LGBT rights, racial equality and the tech industry's need to improve workforce diversity. Still, it's been difficult for Apple and its peers to show significant percentage increases in diversifying its employee base.
TechCrunch earlier reported the news. 
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Uber has seen at least four lawsuits regarding its drivers allegedly sexually assaulting passengers.
Uber is facing yet another lawsuit alleging one of its drivers raped and sexually assaulted a female passenger. This comes one day after a similar suit was filed against the ride-hailing company.
In this new case, lawyers for a "Jane Doe" client say the driver had a "documented history of sexual and gender-motivated violence." They say he was charged twice in 2006: once with domestic battery and another time for "annoying or molesting a child under 18." Additional charges, in 2009, resulted in a restraining order against him, the lawyers say.
"Despite his documented troubling background, Uber allowed [the driver] to transport passengers," Jeanne M. Christensen, a partner at law firm Wigdor who's representing the woman, said in an emailed statement. "Uber must take immediate action to prevent another tragedy like this from happening again."
Uber, valued at $68 billion, is one of the largest ride-hailing services on the planet, operating in about 70 countries. But with its growth, the company has come under fire for numerous allegations of drivers committing sexual assaults.
A handful of states, including California, Massachusetts, Maryland and Texas, have previously launched investigations into Uber, alleging that the company routinely fails to adequately screen drivers and has hired drivers with criminal histories. Reports of alleged sexual assaults by Uber drivers make news headlines several times a month. At least four lawsuits have been filed against the company for these allegations.
On Tuesday, Wigdor filed another lawsuit against Uber on behalf of two women who are seeking class-action status for the case on behalf of all "female riders that have experienced rape, sexual assault or gender-motivated harassment at the hands of their Uber drivers." The complaint says the #MeToo campaign, in which people told personal stories on social media of being sexually harassed and assaulted, showed how many women have reportedly experienced misconduct by Uber drivers.
Uber says it takes these allegations seriously. On its website it says it's "dedicated to keeping people safe on the road" and that its technology "enables us to focus on rider safety before, during and after every trip." 
The newest lawsuit was filed in California Superior Court on Wednesday. The "Jane Doe" alleges her Uber driver raped her during a ride home in Long Beach, California, in November 2016. According to the suit, the woman was intoxicated and had blacked out in the back of his car. She woke up to her driver reportedly on top of her ripping off her clothes. He allegedly assaulted her and then drove her home. The next morning, hospital doctors confirmed the woman had been raped, according to court documents.
It's unclear if Uber's background checks discovered the driver's past history. The ride-hailing service uses a third party company called Checkr to do its background checks, and the searches for felonies, violent crimes and sexual offenses go back for only the past seven years.
Uber said it has permanently removed this driver from its app. "These accusations are extremely concerning," an Uber spokeswoman said. "We are in the process of reviewing the lawsuit."
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."



They're going to take over our gym membership now too?
Just in time for the holidays, the researchers at Boston Dynamics published a new video showing that robots won't just be taking over our jobs. It turns out the team's Atlas "humanoid" robot, which measures roughly 5 feet tall and weighs 165 lbs, can jump onto boxes and do backflips way better than I ever will.
"Atlas' ability to balance while performing tasks allows it to work in a large volume while occupying only a small footprint," the company says on its site. 
This is just the latest step toward eventual robot domination of our jobs, of course. Robots until now have been largely relegated to manufacturing and industrial work, but analysts say that's just the start. While experts say the very idea of Arnold Schwarzenegger look-a-likes chasing after us isn't realistic, it is clear robots are inching (or jumping, in this case) ever closer to what we humans can do. 
Boston Dynamics in particular has become popular for posting YouTube videos showing off what its robots can do. 
Just a couple days ago, the company posted a video of its creepy robot dog running outside. In the past, the company has shown other prototypes doing various tricks, and even falling over.
The company, which used to be owned by Google parent company Alphabet, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment about what these new capabilities mean for Atlas specifically. But it's likely that being more nimble means the robot may be able to work in rougher terrain.
No word on whether owning an Atlas would count toward my CrossFit goals though.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet?


With technology increasingly intertwined with all aspects of business, CNET@Work can help you -- from prosumers to small businesses with fewer than five employees -- get started.
For malicious hackers, startups and small businesses equal big targets of opportunity.
Half of the 28 million small businesses in the US suffered data breaches in the last year. But many still remain unprepared. About one in three small businesses still don't have basic cybersecurity protections in place, such as firewalls, antivirus software, spam filters and data-encryption tools to defend against attacks that can derail their operations.
While it's hard to measure the return on investment for cybersecurity compared with spending money on sales or manufacturing, be aware that the potential losses resulting from a cybersecurity breach can sink a company by exposing trade secrets, valuable IP and information. 
At the same time, you risk losing your customers' trust as well as souring chances to win their future business. In addition, you may be found legally liable if a security breach winds up compromising customer data. 
And don't assume you can fly under the radar. Startups are incredibly vulnerable to cyberattacks in their first 18 months.
Many companies outsource the job to the many managed security service providers (MSSPs) who specialize in cybersecurity. The downside is that this sort of arrangement can prove costly, especially for a very small operation. What's more, small business owners might be uneasy placing the security of their business operations in the hands of an outsider.
Still, protection doesn't need to turn into a budget-busting proposition and there are proactive steps you can take to mitigate threats in a cost-effective fashion. Here are several low-cost steps to help construct an effective cyberdefense while also managing everything in-house.
Prioritize what's important to you and pull together a list ranking the importance of your assets in descending order. Choose the battles you want to fight based on the risk to your business and the cost. Not all data is created equal and this will help you smartly allocate resources as you build a set of policies and controls around your most critical data.
Audit your computing infrastructure and make sure that important network devices, including routers, switches, firewalls and servers, only perform the specific functions they were acquired to perform. For example, if a Windows server isn't serving a website, it likely doesn't need IIS up and running. Also, you can use Nmap and other open source scanning tools to check whether you've left any unexpected ports open.  
Regularly scan for vulnerabilities. You can find a wide selection of free or inexpensive open source software and other services. Vulnerability scanners such as OpenVAS, network mapping tools (Nmap) -- and even an Intrusion Detection System called Snort – are all available at no cost. One thing to keep in mind: Despite the fact that these products are free, you'll still need a certain level of expertise to implement and manage these systems in an ongoing fashion.
Secure your email with a good spam filter since most attacks originate via email.
Apply security policies: Deny USB file storage, set user screen timeouts, limit user access and adhere to enhanced password policies.
Use the full range of security features and capabilities available in your existing hardware and software. For instance, Windows Firewall is included with every Windows server. While it should not be your only firewall in the network, it can still provide another barrier in a layered defense. Best of all, it doesn't cost any extra.
Are you patching servers consistently? Too many organizations are lax about keeping up when software suppliers issue regular free updates to their products.
Patching also applies to hardware devices. Keeping current when manufacturers issue the newest firmware with fixes and other improvements to hardware will help improve the security of your firewall, switches and Wi-Fi access points.
Check your equipment configurations to minimize the attack surface on any device. This is especially critical for any external-facing components. Turn off any features that you don't need.
Take out cyberinsurance so there's coverage for business disruption expenses, including PR and legal expertise to deal with any fallout from a breach. This helps ensure proper legal protocols get followed and that affected people can be properly informed about the situation.
And lastly, raise employee awareness about cybersecurity. This doesn't cost a thing and it will pay back your time investment many times over. Enlist employees as an extension of the existing security program. Everyone on staff needs to shoulder responsibility for the security of the organization. There's no excuse for bad cybersecurity etiquette, not with intruders trying to break into your company more frequently than ever.
Read more: Never work without a net: Insuring your business
Some might argue that training is less important than investing in technology. But if you work on the assumption that employees are always bound to do the wrong thing, they will. 
Make sure they are aware of the potential security threats facing the organization and also know how to recognize phishing emails or social engineering attempts. Put specific policies in place so employees will know what constitutes appropriate use of business equipment. Also, make it easy to report any irregular or suspicious behavior.  
Whichever direction you choose, the goal is the same: Build out a multilayer defense that is going to protect your organization as much as possible and help mitigate the threats. 
If it sounds too daunting to take on, think about the consequences of doing nothing. The bad guys will be coming for you -- sooner or later. You'll help both your reputation and bottom line by being prepared.


Accomable is a site that works like Airbnb, except it caters specifically to people with disabilities.
Airbnb is looking to make things easier for travelers who are disabled.
The lodging-rental company said Thursday that it's rolling out new features for disabled travelers and has bought a business called Accomable.
Accomable is a startup founded in 2015 by two friends with spinal muscular atrophy, a rare neuromuscular disorder that can confine people to wheelchairs. After traveling the world and seeing how difficult it was to find places to stay, they founded Accomable. The startup works similarly to Airbnb in that it's a platform for short-term rentals; the main difference is it caters specifically to people with disabilities.
"Accomable started less as a company or a product but more as a mission and a dream," Srin Madipalli, Accomable CEO and co-founder, wrote in a blog post Wednesday. "A mission to open up travel and adventure to hundreds of millions of disabled people; and a dream that one day, I, as a disabled person could travel the world just like everybody else."
For Airbnb, Accomable seemed like an ideal fit. Airbnb had already been meeting with disability advocacy groups to see how it could make travel more accessible. Along with acquiring Accomable, Airbnb has also added new "accessibility needs" features to its site, such as a checklist for hosts to say whether they have step-free entry to rooms and doorways wide enough to accommodate wheelchairs.
"The features help hosts be descriptive about their home's accessibility, and give guests the clear information they need to find the right home for them," Airbnb wrote in a blog post.
In just under a decade, Airbnb has gone from a small startup catering to couch surfers to a billion-dollar business with a massive online presence. It lists roughly 4 million homes for rent in 191 countries -- that's almost every country on earth. As it has grown, it's worked to be more inclusive.
Airbnb's rules already prohibit any type of discrimination against people with disabilities, but the company wanted to do more. Before now travelers with disabilities only had the option of searching for home rentals labeled as "wheelchair accessible." But that's changing.
Over the next few months, Accomable's listings will be migrated to Airbnb and the startup's website will be shuttered. On Airbnb's site, these listings will have step-free access info, detailed photos, and details on a home's accessibility. Airbnb is also working to redesign its text and improve color contrast on its site to make it easier for visually impaired people to read it.
"All of these improvements are important, but they alone aren't the solution," said Airbnb. "They are the start of an ongoing conversation and we're committed to doing more."
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg is among the tech CEOs facing mounting pressure to increase protections against fake news stories. 
After more than a year of being pilloried for their services spreading hoax news, tech giants Google, Facebook, Twitter and Microsoft's Bing have signed up to a new program that identifies articles from "trusted" news sources. 
The initiative, spearheaded by a journalism ethics enterprise called the Trust Project, is being implemented by media companies comprising dozens of news sites. These publishers add indicators to their articles and site coding that clarifies the organizations' journalistic standards, writers' backgrounds and how they do their work. 
The indicators also show what type of information people are reading – news, opinion, analysis or advertising.
It's up to the tech companies, however, how they decide to utilize these "trusted-source" indicators. The Trust Project said Google, Facebook, Bing and Twitter have all agreed to use the indicators and they are "investigating and piloting ideas" about how to use them "to surface and display quality journalism."
The Washington Post, The Economist, Mic, The Globe and Mail, the Independent Journal Review, Italy's La Repubblica and La Stampa, Trinity Mirror and the German press agency dpa are among the companies starting with Trust Indicators this month. 


Brave Software's logo
Brave Software on Thursday released a new version of its browser that lets you donate money directly to YouTube stars.
The free browser blocks ads by default but lets you distribute money anonymously to websites each month, giving more money to the websites you visit more often and letting you "pin" favorites you always want to fund. Now Brave lets you do the same with YouTubers -- at least for those creators who sign up to receive the money.
For now, that money is whatever you transfer from your own bank account to a Brave electronic wallet. Next year, though, Brave plans to start funding the activity with revenue generated by online ads it'll show if you choose to see them, said Brave co-founder and Chief Executive Brendan Eich, who previously led Mozilla's Firefox browser effort.
Initially, Brave will show ads in a separate browser tab, with 70 percent of revenue going to you, if you're using Brave and have opted in. But the company also plans to place ads in partnership with website publishers, in which case 70 percent of the revenue goes to the publisher, 15 percent to you and the rest to Brave and its advertising business partners.
It's all part of Brave's attempt to rewrite the rules of online advertising. Today's online ads are often supplied by a witches' brew of advertising intermediaries that Brave wants to supplant with a system that keeps your online behavior data private. Brave -- the browser, not the company -- will monitor your browsing activity to better target ads toward your interests, but will share only ad-related keywords that aren't linked to your own identity.
Brave's payment system now can direct money to YouTube creators
YouTube has become a profitable for some, but it's not easy even for people who have something interesting to share online. YouTube restricted ads for YouTubers with fewer than 10,000 video views in March in an effort to curtail some problems. Alternatives such as Patreon let you fund creative types, but Brave hopes to make the process automatic once you set up its general payment system.
Companies like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube rely on others to generate the content that makes their platforms compelling. That's why Brave by default doesn't send money their way and why Brave aimed to pay YouTubers, not YouTube.
"There's been exploitation, and those platform owners are the biggest companies on the planet," Eich  said.
Brave has started contacting YouTube stars and hopes they'll sign up and publicize Brave's approach, he said.
The payment mechanism relies on a cryptocurrency -- initially bitcoin when Brave started testing the system 14 months ago, but now the infrastructure of a rival project called Ethereum.
Brave's payment system now can direct money to YouTube creators
Neither you nor YouTubers have to worry about the computer-science particulars, though. Brave has a partnership with a company called Uphold that converts ordinary money into and out of the quasi-currency Brave is trying to establish for the online advertising market, the Basic Attention Token or BAT.
It's tough to challenge the big names in browsers -- Google, Microsoft, Apple and Mozilla. Brave has made some headway, though, Eich said. Brave has more than 1 million downloads so far on Android, iOS, Windows, MacOS and Linux, and Eich said about a million people use the browser each month.
Black Friday deals: See every Black Friday 2017 deal we've found so far.
Holiday Gift Guide: CNET's full gift guide, including dozens of products priced under $25, $50 and $100.



Amazon will work with the popular food website Allrecipes to link recipe ingredients directly to AmazonFresh, the online retailer's grocery delivery service, the companies announced Thursday. 
This integration will let send all of the ingredients and products you need for a recipe to an AmazonFresh shopping cart, where you can then order the groceries and have them delivered to your house (as long as you live in one of the areas in which the service is available). 
"We want grocery shopping to be as seamless and convenient as possible for customers, and this integration makes it easier than ever for them to shop for all the ingredients needed for new or fan-favorite recipes," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement. This is one of the first sites with which AmazonFresh has integrated. The company will also collaborate with Eat Love, a company that provides personalized meal plans and recipes based on your dietary needs.
The partnership appears to be another way for Amazon to integrate itself into your cooking life. This year, Amazon bought the high-end Whole Foods Market chain in an aggressive move into the grocery market. Shortly after that announcement, Amazon reportedly notified customers in parts of Pennsylvania and New Jersey that their AmazonFresh deliveries will stop after Nov. 30. 
It's fair to speculate that Amazon will eventually integrate Whole Foods' brick-and-mortar location with its home grocery delivery, especially to reach even a sliver of the 80 million users who use Allrecipes.
Update, 11:22 a.m.: Added statement from Amazon.


A lone Bluegogo bike can be seen, surrounded by its Mobike and Ofo competition on the streets of Beijing.
Bike sharing in China is about to change, as the country's third largest service appears to be on rocky grounds.
Bluegogo is reported to have funding issues and some employees in its main offices have been cut.
Reporters from Chinese publication The Paper visited an empty office in Beijing and found out that the company owed 2 million yuan ($300,000) in office rental. The company, which had raised 600 million yuan ($90 million) and has 700,000 bicycles, appears to also be unable to refund deposits, according to online chatter on China's version of Twitter, Weibo. 
With Bluegogo's death apparently imminent, its two larger rivals will dominate the landscape to come. Ofo, which is backed by Alibaba, and Mobike, backed by Tencent, are said to be in talks for a merger with China's Uber, Didi. This will let them raise prices as well as cut back on bikes to become profitable.
Besides dominating China, both Ofo and Mobike have ventured to other countries in the world. They can be found in the UK (Manchester), Italy, Australia (Sydney), Singapore and the US (Seattle). Bluegogo remains rooted in China, though it did briefly launch in San Francisco.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet?
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
That's how I used to look. Well, not the blonde hair.
I've never wanted to put all my eggs into Google's basket.
I don't know what Google wants to use that basket for -- and I have suspicions that it's not all good -- so I try and use competing products as much as I can. 
This has meant having, oh, a Hotmail account. (I know, I know.) And using several browsers, with Firefox being the principal one.
I'm moved by the Mozilla mission to make the web "open and accessible to all," courtesy of a non-profit organization. Well, more than I'm moved by Google's mission, which seems to encompass being a very for-profit organization.
Using Firefox has, though, not been without pain. It froze more often than a nerd on his first date. And it was as zippy as Mark Zuckerberg's wit.
Now, however, there's a new Firefox browser called Quantum. My colleague Stephen Shankland has been testing it for a while and says I should believe Mozilla's promises for a brighter, faster future.
To go with the launch, Mozilla has released an ad. I want to believe in that too.
The ad promises that Quantum will end your "wait face."
It shows a series of people who are waiting for pages to load and streams to stream. These people don't have happy faces. They're not getting what they want right now.
This is America, after all.
As I watched this ad, only one thought occurred to me: "I used to look like that when I used old Firefox. Mozilla is admitting that old Firefox drove you nuts. How charming."
This was remarkably open and accessible honesty. Or, at least, so it seemed to me.
Just to be sure, though, I contacted Mozilla and asked: "Are you criticizing your old product?"
Chief marketing officer Jascha Kaykas-Wolff told me: "Wait Face is all about the general frustration of slowness on the  internet and how Firefox Quantum is the antidote to that. It's fast  because it's built for modern devices and the way people today need  their browser to perform."
Well, that was diplomatic.
Still, I'm going to try it. And I'll see if I can return to writing this column via Firefox. (It's brought to you currently by Chrome.)
If I can, you understand, it will make me feel I'm a better person. A slightly better person from a very low base, that is.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.


Twitter made good Wednesday on threats it would begin stripping its verification badge from accounts found to have crossed the line as the social network continues to review the process it uses to hand out the coveted blue check marks.
Twitter has long offered the badge to authenticate accounts that are of interest to the public. Such accounts have typically included those of public figures and organizations in entertainment, politics, business, sports and the media. But the company has recently begun to worry that the badges also conveyed an endorsement of the account by Twitter.
"Verification has long been perceived as an endorsement," the company tweeted Wednesday. "We gave verified accounts visual prominence on the service, which deepened this perception. We should have addressed this earlier but did not prioritize the work as we should have."
Twitter said it will remove the verification badges from accounts whose behavior does not fit their guidelines.
Twitter removed on Wednesday badges from two accounts associated with white nationalists. Richard Spencer, who advocates a separate white homeland, and Jason Kessler, the organizer of the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, lost their badges Wednesday afternoon. The August rally in Charlottesville turned violent as neo-Nazis clashed with protesters, leaving one person dead and dozens injured. 
Twitter suspended its verification process last week after the social network drew widespread outrage for giving the verification badge to Kessler's account.
Spencer and Kessler didn't immediately respond to requests for comment, but Spencer responded to the action in a tweet that said: "Verified no more! Is it not okay to be proudly White?"
Verified no more! Is it not okay to be  proudly White? 🤷🏻‍♂️
Kessler tweeted that Twitter "has changed their verification policy just to be able to censor me."
Twitter has changed their verification policy just to be able to censor me. Several other accounts were unverified including Richard Spencer and James Allsup while Baked Alaska was permanently suspended altogether. pic.twitter.com/PO1QnJC2C6
Twitter also suspended the account of alt-right troll Tim Gionet, better known by his Twitter handle @BakedAlaska. Gionet began trending worldwide and later ranted about his Twitter ban on YouTube. 
Twitter didn't immediately respond to a request for further comment.
The removals came as Twitter provided an update in a series of tweets about its suspended verification process. Twitter said it's working on a new authentication and verification program and still not accepting any new requests. 
"We should've communicated faster on this (yesterday). Our agents have been following our verification policy correctly, but we realized some time ago the system is broken and needs to be reconsidered," Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey tweeted last week. "And we failed by not doing anything about it. Working now to fix faster."
According to the social network's rules, a verified account can lose its status on the grounds of promoting hate, violent behavior or harassment, as well as posting gruesome images.
Twitter isn't the only internet company to crack down on far right speech. The Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website, has bounced around domains since GoDaddy pulled its registration shortly after the Virginia rally. Cloudflare, which protects websites from denial-of-service attacks, also dropped the site. 
The moves were met with a mixed response. The Electronic Frontier Foundation criticized the decision by tech companies to revoke their services, saying the same tactic could be used to prevent other organizations, such as civil rights groups, from expressing themselves.  
First published Nov. 15, 4:09 p.m. PT.Update, 5:20 p.m.: Added background.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Elon Musk, in not a black turtleneck.
If I asked you to describe Elon Musk's dress sense, what would you say? 
Slightly cool, shabby LA film star sort of thing? Certainly, the Tesla CEO doesn't have a uniform, as some tech CEOs surely have. 
Who can ignore Mark Zuckerberg's t-shirts? Then there was Steve Jobs's black turtlenecks, about which Musk has very strong feelings.
In a revealing and sometimes emotional interview with Rolling Stone published Wednesday, Musk explained how much he disliked being portrayed as the new Steve Jobs.
"If I was dying and I had a turtleneck on, with my last  dying breath I would take the turtleneck off and try to throw it as far  away from my body as possible," he said.
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
It is, though, a very bad habit for people to desperately want a new version of something that came before. It's as if the human imagination needs to be soothed, rather the excited. Reassured, rather than revolutionized.
Musk is surely not a second anyone. He has his own way of going about things and, indeed, his own fears and dreams. In this interview, he reiterated his extreme fears for the dangers of artificial intelligence.
"Climate change is the biggest threat that humanity faces this century,  except for AI," he said. "I keep telling people this." 
He insisted his views were those of everyone in the scientific community. Save for those he deems crazy, that is.
He worries that Google, Facebook and Amazon (and "arguably Apple, but they seem to care about privacy") represent an enormous, unsupervised risk when it comes to the depth of information they hold over everyone and what they might do with it. 
Musk is one of the backers (along with, oh, Facebook board member Peter Thiel) of OpenAI, an organization that seeks to ensure that AI doesn't become a force for evil.
Musk, though, is not your average loner. He admitted that he can't bear to be alone and can't be happy unless he's in a serious relationship. "Going to sleep alone drives me crazy," he said. 
The interview was conducted just after he'd broken up with someone -- reportedly actress Amber Heard. "Well, she broke up with me more than I broke up with her, I think," he revealed.
Musk comes across in the interview as a very emotional man. 
In the past, he's admitted to perhaps being bipolar and has said he experiences great highs and terrible lows.
Though he may not share Jobs's sartorial instincts, there are similarities between the two. He told Rolling Stone that an end goal for his products is that they should enjoy aesthetic beauty. 
Does this mean turtlenecks aren't beautiful? 
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.


Aqua Connect and its wholly owned subsidiary claim that Apple is using their technology without permission.
The US International Trade Commission is putting Apple under the microscope again.
The commission, which is already investigating complaints against Apple over its legal spat with Qualcomm, said Tuesday that it's investigating a patent infringement dispute related to a lawsuit filed by Aqua Connect and its wholly owned subsidiary Strategic Technology Partners. Aqua Connect is a Nevada company but has its headquarters in Orange, California.
The companies claim that Apple is using patented designs without permission to build screen-sharing and remote desktop server features for Macs, iPods, iPhones, iPads and Apple TV. They filed the complaint on October 10 in US District Court for the Central District of  California.
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
"Initially, our product had Apple's full support. But years later, Apple built our technology into its macOS and iOS operating systems without our permission," Ronnie Exley, Aqua Connect's CEO, said in a statement. Aqua Connect said it wants Apple to stop using its technology in devices.
The commission has the power to ban products from entering the US, which is often enough of a threat that companies will settle their issues out of court. 


An artist's rendering of Arrivo tubes in Denver.
It may not be Hyperloop, but Denver residents may one day find themselves shuttled around Denver in tubes at speeds of up to 200 mph.
That is the promise of a partnership announced Tuesday between Arrivo, a Los Angeles-based transportation startup led by a former executive and co-founder of Hyperloop One, and the Colorado Department of Transportation. The partnership aims to create a series of enclosed superhighways that use magnetic levitation and electric power to whisk floating vehicles around the heart of the congested city.
Arrivo, Italian for "arrival," was co-founded earlier this year by Brogan BamBrogan, once the chief technology officer at Hyperloop One. BamBrogan resigned from Hyperloop in July 2016 and filed a lawsuit accusing company executives of defamation, breach of fiduciary duty and assault, in which a noose was placed around his chair.
The lawsuit was settled in November 2016 for an undisclosed amount, and now BamBrogan is focused on building a $15 million test center and test track in the Denver Metro area.
"Passengers and cargo arrive quickly and efficiently at extremely low cost," BamBrogan said in a statement that likened the system to the one being built by his former company. "Arrivo will end traffic and futureproof regional mobility."
But unlike Hyperloop, which promises to move passengers and cargo over long distances through vacuum-sealed tubes at speeds up to 700 mph, Arrivo will move people much shorter distances at a fraction of the speed. Still passengers can expect to get around Denver much quicker than possible today, making what is normally an hour-long rush hour trip between Denver and Boulder in just 8 minutes.
"We are reaching max roads in many cases in Colorado," Shailen Bhatt, executive director of the Colorado Department of Transportation, said in a statement. "Arrivo has a unique and practical approach to implementing hyperloop technology to eliminate traffic and dramatically improve the way people and goods move around the city."
Arrivo expects the test track to be completed by 2021.
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter.


Editor's note Nov. 15: LinkedIn said Tuesday its career advice featur is now broadly available. The social network originally announced the update in August. Our coverage of that announcement, which contains more details on the update, follows.
Looking for work on LinkedIn? You'll soon find something else, too -- career advice from recommended mentors.
It's a feature that's currently being tested internally, LinkedIn said. When it arrives in the coming weeks, users will be able to list their preferences on the type of advice they're looking for and the kind of mentor they'd like to meet -- someone in a certain area or industry, for instance. From there, LinkedIn will play matchmaker and connect you with any willing mentors that meet your criteria. Mentors can also filter out potential mentees based on criteria like area, industry, and alma mater.
"This is a lightweight way to identify and connect with other members," a LinkedIn spokesperson tells CNET, "and it works well with the informal, casual nature of today's changing workforce." 
The larger goal may be to drive job-seekers toward LinkedIn's "ProFinder" service, which lets users hire professional freelancers, including for job-hunting and career counseling purposes.  
There's some clear appeal here for job-hunters in need of tailored advice on things like interviews and salary negotiations -- what's less clear is how LinkedIn plans to attract qualified mentor figures to serve as pro bono career counselors for strangers on the internet, or if LinkedIn has any mechanism in place for vetting these mentors.
"Giving back is a strong force for mentors," a LinkedIn spokesperson says. "We're finding that people want to pay it forward. We've found in our initial research that 89% of senior leaders currently give or would be interested in giving advice."


Wednesday morning was big for Australia. The country's Same Sex Marriage survey result was announced, with a 61 percent vote in favour of same-sex marriage.
Apple CEO Tim Cook congratulated Australia on the vote, tweeting that it was "another important step toward equality for all." His faux pas? Cook then added an emoji of the New Zealand flag.

Congratulations Australia! Another important step toward equality for all. 🇦🇺 #MarriageEquality
He quickly deleted his original tweet, and uploaded a new one with the correct flag. On one hand, the flags look almost identical to the untrained eye. On the other, Australians are all trained to see that difference, and consider the mixup a slight on our sovereignty.
The Australian Bureau of Statistics said 61.6 percent of survey voters gave a tick to marriage equality, though the result, unlike a referendum, is nonbinding. Following the result, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said it was now Parliament's job "to get on with it and get this [legislated] before Christmas."
Cook is no stranger to voicing his opinion on public matters. Coming out as gay in 2014, he's often vocal on matters of diversity and inclusion, and has also pledged to make Apple a greener and more charitable company.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.


Tech companies are still not doing enough to stop kids from working in cobalt mines in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, according to international human rights organization Amnesty International.
While tech giants including Apple, Samsung and Dell are making some progress, more needs to be done to stop children as young as 7 years old from working in "horrendous" and in some cases deadly conditions, the organization said in a report released Tuesday.
Apple executives Ashley Orbach and Amy Chan, left, listen to Amnesty International secretary general Salil Shetty's plea to end child cobalt mining in the Congo.  
Those steps include companies asking their suppliers to trace where the cobalt comes from, Seema Joshi, Amnesty's head of business and human rights, told a group of tech and auto company leaders attending a roundtable discussion on the matter in San Francisco. 
"When you look at the leaders of these companies, they're still not disclosing this critical information needed to evaluate what they're doing is actually effective in identifying and protecting human rights abuses," Joshi said. "Were children involved in collecting cobalt? We know the problem still exists."
Cobalt is important for the lithium-ion batteries found in phones, laptops and tablets. About 60 percent of the world's cobalt supply comes from the Congo, and about 20 percent of it is mined by hand, said the organization, which first called attention to problems in a January 2016 report.
Amnesty's latest report commended Apple for being the first company to publish the names of its cobalt suppliers and dubbed it the industry leader in responsible cobalt sourcing. The tech giant is working closely with China-based cobalt supplier Huayou Cobalt to address child labor in its supply chain.
"We're proud of the progress we've made and we know our work is never done," Apple said in a statement Tuesday. "We will continue to drive our standards throughout our supply chain and do all that we can to ensure that everyone is treated with the dignity and respect they deserve."
Apple began investigating risks surrounding cobalt in late 2014 and in 2015 began mapping its cobalt supply chain down to the mine level, it said in its 2017 supplier responsibility report. In March, Apple said it would stop buying cobalt mined by hand in the Congo following reports of child labor and dangerous work conditions.
Apple has been focused for years on making its products and its operations more environmentally friendly. The company aims to one day run on all renewable energy, as well as get its suppliers to do the same.
Apple said in its 2017 environmental responsibility report, released in April, that as of 2016, it powered 96 percent of its operations around the world with 100 percent renewable energy, like solar, hydro and wind power. In 24 countries where it operates, Apple has reached the 100 percent renewable level, and nearly 100 percent of the paper used in product packaging is from recycled or "responsibly managed sources." Still, the company acknowledges more can be done.
That sentiment was shared by Kelly Liu, a supply chain manager at Dell. She said her company has been working closely with Huayou Cobalt and conducted a survey with its suppliers and shared its template with other companies as well.
"We recognize this is a complex issue, and this is probably going to be marathon and not a sprint in order to create positive change," she said.
Salil Shetty, Amnesty's secretary general, told the participants that they have a long way to go to stop child mining abuses in the Congo.
"We don't have much time because as we are speaking, they are digging," he said. "We have to find solutions now."


Uber has been hit with at least three lawsuits alleging its drivers sexually assaulted passengers.
Another lawsuit alleging rape has been filed against Uber.
This time the complaint comes from two women seeking class-action status for the suit on behalf of all "female riders that have experienced rape, sexual assault or gender-motivated harassment at the hands of their Uber drivers." The two women are remaining anonymous.
"Uber must make drastic changes to prevent another female rider from harm," Jeanne M. Christensen, a partner at law firm Wigdor LLP who's representing the women, said in an email. "As alleged, the recent #MeToo campaign has exposed the heinous acts that female riders have been forced to endure during Uber rides."
The #MeToo campaign, which gained steam on Facebook and Twitter last month, was a way for people who've faced sexual assault or harassment to share their experiences and show the magnitude of the problem. Hundreds of people spoke out against Uber on social media sites, saying they'd been harassed by drivers. Female drivers also said they'd experienced sexual harassment by passengers.

Uber, valued at $68 billion, is one of the largest ride-hailing services on the planet, operating in about 70 countries. But with its growth, the company has come under fire for numerous allegations of drivers committing sexual assaults.
A handful of states, including California, Massachusetts and Texas, have previously launched investigations into Uber, claiming it routinely fails to adequately screen drivers and has hired drivers with criminal histories. Reports of alleged sexual assaults by Uber drivers make news headlines several times a month.
At least three lawsuits have been filed against the company for these allegations, including a separate complaint brought by Wigdor LLP on behalf of two other "Jane Does" in 2015. Uber settled that suit in November 2016. Another lawsuit was brought in 2015 by a women who was raped by an Uber driver in India. Uber also settled that suit, but the issue was reignited last spring after it was alleged that Uber executives obtained and mishandled her medical records.
Uber's website says the company is "dedicated to keeping people safe on the road" and that its technology "enables us to focus on rider safety before, during and after every trip." 
Regarding the new lawsuit, a company spokeswoman said, "Uber received this complaint today and we are in the process of reviewing it. These allegations are important to us and we take them very seriously." 
Uber has been beleaguered by dozens of issues over the last year. Those kicked off with a #DeleteUber movement in January, then moved onto workplace sexual harassment allegations and an internal investigation led by former US Attorney General Eric Holder. In June, Uber's board of directors forced CEO Travis Kalanick to resign.
Now Uber is trying to turn things around with new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi. Last week, Khosrowshahi wrote a LinkedIn blog post about Uber's "new cultural norms" saying what made the company successful won't get it to the next level. One of his eight new cultural norms is, "We do the right thing. Period."
The new lawsuit against Uber was filed in California's US District Court for the Northern District. The two women say their Uber drivers assaulted them in two separate incidents, according to court documents.
One woman, who lives in Florida, alleges her Uber driver took her home and raped her in October 2016. The other woman, who lives in Los Angeles, alleges an Uber driver assaulted her while she was asleep in the backseat of his car and then took her home and raped her. In both instances the women were intoxicated.
The two women say Uber's background checks are inadequate and the company has misrepresented how safe the service actually is. The lawsuit is asking the court to force Uber to change the way it screens drivers and be more transparent about what it knows in regard to alleged sexual assaults by its drivers.
"The company must come forward with information about how many reports it has received about rapes, sexual assaults and gender-motivated harassment to allow consumers to assess whether Uber really does provide safe rides, especially to women," Christensen said in an email. "It is time for Uber to 'Do the right thing. Period.'"
First published Nov. 14, 11:12 a.m. PT. Update, 12:43 p.m.: Adds background information and comment from Uber spokeswoman.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."


Microsoft has a new goal for cutting carbon emissions.
The United States' future in the Paris climate agreement might be uncertain, but Microsoft is still on board.
The tech giant plans to cut its carbon emissions 75 percent by 2030, Microsoft's president and chief legal officer, Brad Smith, said in a blog post Tuesday.
"As a global company, the changes we make in how we operate our business and the goals we set have a worldwide impact," Smith said.
A Microsoft spokesperson said via email that the company has a benchmark of being carbon neutral every year. "We're also on track to meet our 50 percent renewable energy commitment by 2018 and will keep improving from there," the spokesperson said. In addition, in early November, Microsoft announced all its owned data centers will reach a LEED Gold certification for sustainability. 
Smith also said that through continued use of renewable energy and energy efficiency, Microsoft will be able to help meet the goals set by the Paris climate agreement, and "help avoid more than 10 million metric tons of carbon emissions by 2030."
Update, 10:43 a.m. PT: Adds comment from Microsoft. 


An activist is trying to sue Facebook for about 12.5 million euros, or $14.7 million.
A senior adviser for the European Union's top court told an Austrian privacy activist on Tuesday that he can't sue Facebook on behalf of 25,000 people.
The adviser said that activist Max Schrems could sue the company on his own but that a class action suit would likely fall flat in court.
Schrems has accused the social network of violating European privacy laws, taking aim at what he sees as invalid privacy policies and data-sharing agreements the company has with US intelligence agencies.
A run-in with Facebook is nothing new for the activist, who was responsible for bringing the case that resulted in the EU's highest court declaring in 2015 that Safe Harbor, the US-Europe data-sharing pact, was illegal.
He is now trying to sue the company's Irish division in Austrian court, not only for violating his own privacy, but the privacy of about 25,000 signatories who live in Austria, Germany and India. His hope is to claim 500 euros ($576) in damages for each of them, or about $12.5 million euros.
Schrems' chances of succeeding are slim, EU Court of Justice Advocate General Michal Bobek said Tuesday in his decision. Bobek was asked to assess Schrems' case by the Supreme Court in Austria. His opinion is not binding, but is generally followed. His concern is that a case like this could lead Facebook users to choose to sue the company in the EU country with the most favorable court.
Schrems responded to Bobek in a statement, noting that because EU laws allow citizens to move home countries any time they choose, their home court can change just as easily. "It seems that Facebook has managed to score with their emotional horror stories, according to which collective actions by consumers are highly questionable," he said.
Class action suits, in which many people sue together, are not as common in Europe as they are in the US, but Schrems argued that individual Facebook users could not afford the legal costs of individually fighting their cases against the Silicon Valley tech giant. Instead, Schrems, who is a lawyer, is fighting the case pro bono. Other costs are being covered by German financing company Roland Prozessfinanz.
A Facebook spokesperson welcomed Bobek's decision. "Today's opinion supports the decisions of two courts that Mr. Schrems' claims cannot proceed as 'class action' on behalf of other consumers in Austrian courts," the spokesperson said in a statement.
Schrems said he can still achieve something, even if the class action suit doesn't work out. "I can at least bring a 'model case' at my home jurisdiction in Vienna, which may enable us to debate the illegal practices of Facebook in an open court for the first time," he said.
Five EU judges will consider Bobek's opinion and are expected to make a decision in early 2018 about whether the case can proceed.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.


Paris.
Airbnb is capping the number of days per year its users can rent out their properties in central Paris.
The popular home rental app, which has had run-ins with regulators around the world, will only allow hosts to rent for 120 days per year. This will bring users in line with France's official laws on short-term rentals, according to Reuters. A "nights hosted" counter will be added to users' profiles to help track the number of nights they've already rented out their homes.
The rental cap will only apply to Paris' first four districts (or "arrondissements") unless the host has authorisation to rent a property for longer. This means it could be harder to find an Airbnb next door to popular tourist spots such as the Louvre, Notre-Dame cathedral and the Marais. (The Eiffel Tower, in the seventh arrondissement, is safe for now.)
Last December Airbnb limited the number of days users could rent out their properties per year in London and Amsterdam to 90 and 60 days respectively. Meanwhile property owners in San Francisco have been limited to 60 days per year.
"Paris is the number one city in the world for Airbnb and we want to make sure our community grows responsibly and sustainably. While experts across the world agree that Airbnb has no significant impact on the housing market, we want to do our bit to address historic housing concerns in Central Paris and help make this city a better place for everyone. We know this solution is effective, targets bad actors and is free for everyone, and we hope other platforms will follow and introduce similar measures to promote responsible and sustainable travel in Paris," said Emmanuel Marill, General Manager for Airbnb in France.  
The decision will come into effect in January.


Google's tribute to the hole puncher.
While not quite as indispensable as the stapler, the hole puncher has been a staple of business offices for more than a century.
It's not only helped corral dangerously thick reams of papers for easier organization, the hole puncher has also provided many a test of physical strength. It challenges whether our grip or downward force is strong enough to puncture the stack, pushing out a neat cylinder of future confetti -- or whether we had to reduce the load, like a dejected weightlifter.
History tells us we have Friedrich Soennecken, a German entrepreneur and inventor, to thank for this officious yet sometimes physically demanding office tool. Soennecken, who fittingly also introduced the ring binder, filed a patent for the hole puncher on Nov. 14, 1886.
To celebrate the 131st anniversary of that filing, Google launched an animated Doodle Tuesday that demonstrates the joy often associated with a successful punch. The fruits of that labor make up most of the Doodle, providing a happier use to the unwieldy mess usually left over from the task.
As we move toward a digital existence increasingly devoid of paper, take a moment to appreciate that feeling of achievement that can still be gained from a 19th century relic.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."


Australians will soon have access to the wonders of Amazon online shopping.
Australians have been patiently waiting and now the time has come: Amazon expects to launch down under within two weeks.
The world's biggest online retailer is contacting sellers advising them to get their products online and ready to sell by "mid-November," according to emails seen by CNET. The company adds in the emails that Amazon Marketplace, which lets other company sell their wares on Amazon's sites, "will hopefully be launching for Black Friday."
Two people familiar with Amazon's plans confirmed that Amazon's goal is to go live by Black Friday, which lands on Nov. 24. But the final launch date is still yet to be confirmed as the company races to finalise its plans in time for the holiday shopping season, both people said.
Amazon has been "pushing hard" to launch by that date to hit one of the biggest sales days of the holiday shopping season, according to one of those sources, Peter Kearns of 180Commerce, a US company that provides services for Amazon sellers. He added that Amazon has been actively recruiting sellers from both the US and Australia to help fill the virtual shelves of its new Australia storefront.
Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
The Australia roll out is part of Amazon's broader global expansion, as it works to keep up its rapid growth and fend off competitors like Alibaba and Walmart. Amazon brought its popular Prime membership service to China and India last year and bought Middle East e-commerce site Souq.com this year.
The Black Friday plans offer the first hard date from Amazon for when it plans to open in Australia. On Monday, Amazon Australia country manager Rocco Braeuniger took to the stage at an Amazon Seller Summit in Sydney, saying the company was launching "really, really soon."
The choice of Black Friday makes sense for a massive US company like Amazon. The day after the US Thanksgiving holiday, Black Friday has long marked the start of holiday shopping in the US. In recent years, Black Friday has turned into one of the biggest trading days for both online and brick-and-mortar stores.
Now Amazon wants to capture some of that lightning in Australia.
Until now, Amazon's presence in Australia has been limited to selling Kindle devices and e-books, its enterprise cloud computing platform Amazon Web Services, and the subscription Amazon Prime Video service, which launched in December last year. 
While anticipation from Australian consumers (and trepidation from rival retailers) has only increased in recent months, the company has kept tight-lipped about launch plans in what will be its next major global market. In January this year, the company quietly began a hiring spree, advertising more than 100 roles including positions in its AmazonFresh grocery delivery department.
In April, the company officially confirmed rumours of an expansion into Australia, before unveiling the location of its first fulfillment centre -- a 24,000 square metre warehouse on the outskirts of Melbourne, Victoria. The company also added to the hype by announcing a further hiring spree and plans to stock the warehouse with "hundreds of thousands of products."
Now, we have a clearer idea of what those products will be. At Monday's Seller Summit, Amazon confirmed it will launch in Australia with its own retail range of products as well as products from third parties, sold through Amazon Marketplace.
Amazon trotted a number of these sellers onstage, including the heads of Australian baby accessories company Hip Cub, camera lens brand Gobe and anti-ageing skincare brand Vidi. Between blasts of motivational pop music, the sellers spruiked the benefits of being on Amazon for growing sales, reaching global markets and earning a "seven figure salary."
The company also used Monday's event to promote its Fulfillment by Amazon program -- a service that lets sellers use Amazon's warehouse as a central hub to store, pack and ship their products to customers.
As for Amazon's fabled two-day shipping, Aussies may have to wait on that front. The company gave no word about who it would use for shipping and what delivery times Australians could expect. But one seller who appeared on stage let slip that Australians could expect two-day delivery when Amazon Marketplace is up and running.
Holiday Gift Guide: CNET's full gift guide, from our top picks of the year to the best smart home presents.
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.


Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates is investing in construction of a proposed smart city in the Arizona desert.
Bill Gates can see the future -- in the Arizona desert.
An investment firm controlled by the Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist has bought nearly 25,000 acres about 45 miles west of Phoenix to build a smart city, a community built from the ground up with the idea of integrating technology into its residents' lives. The proposed community, known as Belmont, would serve as a "template" for development of sustainable cities capitalizing on cutting-edge infrastructure, the investment firm Belmont Partners said.
"Belmont will create a forward-thinking community with a communication and infrastructure spine that embraces cutting-edge technology, designed around high-speed digital networks, data centers, new manufacturing technologies and distribution models, autonomous vehicles and autonomous logistics hubs," the firm said in a statement Wednesday.
The investment comes amid growing interest in smart cities, communities that use technology to keep streets clean by alerting the sanitation department when public garbage bins are full, for example. Communities that allow residents to unlock their office door and turn on their computer before even arriving at work. Places where residents can use their phones to reserve and get directions to a parking space.
Belmont Partners has spent $80 million on the plot of land for the proposed community, which would be comparable in size and population to nearby Tempe -- 40 square miles and about 160,000 people, the firm said in a statement.
Belmont will be composed of 80,000 residential units, with more than 3,800 acres for office, commercial and retail space, 3,400 acres of open space and 470 acres for public schools, the firm said.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


Steve Jurvetson has left his VC firm amid sexual harassment allegations.
Silicon Valley's sexual harassment problems continue.
Steve Jurvetson, one of Silicon Valley's most high-profile venture capitalists, has left his namesake firm, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, amid a sexual harassment investigation, according to Recode. He's the latest in a string of venture capitalist to be ousted from his firm amid allegations related to misconduct or sexual harassment. 
The publication, citing unnamed sources, said an investigation by DFJ "uncovered behaviors by Jurvetson that were unacceptable related to a negative tone toward women entrepreneurs."
DFJ didn't immediately respond to a request for comment, but operating partner Heidi Roizen confirmed in a statement the firm had been "rocked by allegations about sexual harassment." Over the summer, DFJ launched an independent investigation into "allegations of misconduct by one (and only one) of our partners from a third party." The investigation is ongoing.
Jurvetson said in an email that he's leaving the firm "to focus on personal matters, including taking legal action against those whose false statements have defamed me." He also tweeted that statement. 
I am leaving DFJ to focus on personal matters, including taking legal action against those whose false statements have defamed me.
Jurvetson is one of Silicon Valley's best-known venture capitalists. He was a founding investor in Hotmail, which was later bought by Microsoft, and serves on the boards of Elon Musk's Tesla and SpaceX. Earlier this year, SV Forum awarded Jurvetson its Visionary Award "for his role in fostering the spirit of entrepreneurship in Silicon Valley." In 2016, President Barack Obama named him a Presidential Ambassador for Global Entrepreneurship. 
SpaceX and Tesla on Monday said Jurvetson was taking "a leave of absence from the SpaceX and Tesla boards pending resolution of these allegations."
Late last month, Keri Kukral, a female entrepreneur, wrote in a Facebook post that "women approached by a founding partner of Draper Fisher Jurvetson should be careful. Predatory behavior is rampant." She didn't name Jurvetson specifically. 
Kukral didn't immediately respond to a request for comment Monday.
In her statement, DFJ's Roizen disputed the characterization of the firm. 
"I don't need an investigation to state with certainty that this is patently wrong," Roizen wrote. "I am too grizzled and old to write bullshit about a company to please my boss. I'm writing this because I believe it to be true." 
She added that she "would not work for DFJ if I felt the culture was not one of high integrity and opportunity for all -- including women."
Jurvetson isn't the only VC to have allegedly harassed women. Binary Capital co-founder Justin Caldbeck left his job in June after a story in The Information said he'd allegedly made sexual advances at female entrepreneurs. Chris Sacca of Lowercase Capital and Dave McClure of 500 Startups issued public apologies after being named in a report later that month by The New York Times about sexual harassment in the technology startup industry. In July, Frank Artale, a managing partner at venture capital firm Ignition Partners, resigned after a complaint of misconduct from an anonymous source.
Prominent blogger Robert Scoble and Amazon Studios head Roy Price also resigned from their positions following allegations of sexual harassment.
The departures have shined a light on difficulties faced by women in Silicon Valley. Women remain in the minority at many companies, despite efforts by organizations to seek more diversity. In recent months, many woman have come forward with complaints of sexual harassment and other issues in Silicon Valley, Hollywood and other areas. 
To help encourage female entrepreneurs, a group of female venture capitalists on Monday started a new program, called Female Founder Office Hours. 
"The idea is to host free, quarterly events that explore topics across the range of company stages," according to TechCrunch. The first event, slated for Nov. 30 in San Francisco, will focus on helping seed-stage female founders with their pitches. The group will offer 40 one-on-one office hour slots with 10 female VC partners from Benchmark, Canaan, Cowboy, Forerunner, Freestyle, Lux, Sequoia and Reach. Two female founders who are now VCs also will discuss fundraising.  
"Our goal is for every female founder to walk away with a bit of advice from some female investors and a few new female founder friends that they can count on," the group said on its website. "We hope to use this to kick-start a virtuous cycle and community of women helping women."
First published Nov. 13 at 1:21 p.m. PT.Update at 1:30 p.m.: Adds comment from Tesla/SpaceX. Update at 2:26 p.m.: Adds statement from DFJ operating partner Heidi Roizen.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Google is facing another investigation into its business practices. 
Google's facing another investigation into its business practices.
The attorney general for Missouri, Josh Hawley, on Monday said he has issued an investigative subpoena to Google to determine if it has violated Missouri's main consumer protection law and its antitrust laws. 
Missouri is examining "Google's collection, use, and disclosure of information about Google users and their online activities; Google's alleged misappropriation of online content from the websites of its competitors; and Google's alleged manipulation of search results to preference websites owned by Google and to demote websites that compete with Google."
"There is strong reason to believe that Google has not been acting with the best interest of Missourians in mind," Hawley said. "My office will not stand by and let private consumer information be jeopardized by industry giants, especially to pad their profits."
Google said that it hasn't yet received the subpoena. "However, we have strong privacy protections in place for our users and continue to operate in a highly competitive and dynamic environment," Google spokesman Patrick Lenihan said. 
The inquiry by Missouri isn't the first such probe Google has faced. The European Union in June slapped Google with a record $2.7 billion fine for favoring its own shopping services in its search results over those of rivals. The EU also has been investigating whether Google hurt app rivals by demanding its own service be preinstalled on all Android phones, as well as looking into accusations that Google blocked rivals in online search advertising. The inquiry comes also as Google, Facebook and Twitter face questions over their role in enabling the spread of fake news and the Russian misinformation campaign.
The Wall Street Journal earlier reported news of the investigation.
CNET's Richard Nieva contributed to this report.
Update at 11:45 a.m. PT with Google comment. 
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates at the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative in 2016.
Bill Gates is known for his generosity, and he's taking it further with an investment into Alzheimer's research.
The founder of Microsoft has given away $32.91 billion over his lifetime, much of which has been spent as the richest person in the world. His latest $100 million gift will reportedly be going in two equal chunks to organizations on the cutting edge of fighting dementia.
The Dementia Discovery Fund will get the first $50 million to help its mission of bringing together government and industry to work on treatments, Gates wrote on his personal blog. The second will go to "less mainstream" start-up ventures working in Alzheimer's research, he told Reuters. Both donations will come from his personal accounts and not the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Alzheimer's is a form of dementia that affects more than 5 million Americans. 
"Of all the disorders that plague us late in life, one stands out as a particularly big threat to society: Alzheimer's disease," Gates said in his blog. "You have a nearly 50 percent chance of developing the disease if you live into your mid-80s."
Current treatments can only ease the symptoms. 
"I hope that in the next 10 years that we have some powerful drugs," Gates told Reuters, "but it's possible that won't be achieved."
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.



Qualcomm to Broadcom: Take your billions and go homecomm.
The board of directors at Qualcomm, the world's largest maker of chips and processors for phones, on Monday unanimously rejected a massive unsolicited takeover bid from Broadcom, which makes chips for everything from cable modems to set-top boxes and digital video recorders.
"Broadcom's proposal significantly undervalues Qualcomm relative to the company's leadership position in mobile technology and our future growth prospects," said Paul Jacobs, chairman of Qualcomm's board, in a statement. Qualcomm also said that the deal would come with significant regulatory uncertainty.
Broadcom said it remains fully committed to pursuing the acquisition.
"We continue to believe our proposal represents the most attractive, value-enhancing alternative available to Qualcomm stockholders and we are encouraged by their reaction," said Broadcom CEO Hock Tan in a statement. "Many have expressed to us their desire that Qualcomm meet with us to discuss our proposal."
The acquisition would have been the biggest in tech history, surpassing AOL's acquisition of Time Warner in 2001. The combined company would have been the third-largest semiconductor maker in the world, trailing only Intel and Samsung.
Update, 11:40 a.m. ET: Added statement from Broadcom.


The Apple Store on Regent Street in central London.
Like jewelry stores, Apple retail outlets packed with expensive gear evidently make tempting targets for thieves.
Early Monday morning, a gang of 10 robbers on five mopeds broke into the flagship UK Apple Store in central London's busy Regent Street, by driving a moped through the glass front doors, the Evening Standard reports. They threatened two security guards with hammers, and left after three minutes.
The raiders managed to escape with iPhones, iPads and Apple Watches. Two iPhone Xs were later recovered. The store was back to normal operation later that morning.
Apple did not immediately reply to a request for comment.


This Singles' Day, Alibaba raked in more than $25.3 billion. Because, single or not, who doesn't love a good deal?
Two isn't always better than one, at least not for Alibaba Group.
The Chinese e-commerce giant broke records and calculated $25.3 billion in sales generated from 1.48 billion shoppers via Alipay on its annual Singles' Day global shopping festival on Nov. 11, or 11/11, it said in a statement released Sunday. That's an increase of 39 percent from last year.
Singles' Day is perhaps the biggest online shopping extravaganza worldwide, dwarfing international equivalents like Black Friday and Cyber Monday. The day, chosen for the collection of ones in its name, started out as a kind of "anti-Valentine's Day" where China's lonely hearts revel in their singlehood. It was popularised by Alibaba as an annual online shopping spree in 2009, where participating companies offered discounts to shoppers for a 24-hour period.
International stars like Jessie J, Nicole Kidman and Pharrell Williams graced the gala this year, with Alibaba CEO Daniel Zhang expressing hopes to take it overseas, although no timeline was confirmed. Other Chinese online shopping platforms such as JD.com have also jumped on the bandwagon, contributing to a total of $38.2 billion in sales this year.
Alibaba said it raked in almost $12 billion within the first two hours, and the number more than doubled to over $25 billion by the end of the shopping bonanza.
Not everyone is celebrating Singles' Day, however. Greenpeace released research days before the event showing it generated enormous amounts of CO2 emissions last year and called it a "catastrophe for the environment." 
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech." 


Uber's board has reached a deal that will allow SoftBank to make a $10 billion investment in the ride-hailing startup.
Uber's board of directors reached a deal Sunday that will allow SoftBank to make a multibillion-dollar investment in the ride-hailing startup.
The agreement resolves a legal battle between Uber cofounder and former CEO Travis Kalanick and Benchmark Capital, one of the startup's early investors, Reuters reported Sunday. Benchmark Capital, which owns about 13 percent of Uber, sued Kalanick in August, alleging that Kalanick misled Uber's stockholders to gain control of three board seats.
"We've entered into an agreement with a consortium led by SoftBank and Dragoneer on a potential investment," an Uber representative said in a statement. "We believe this agreement is a strong vote of confidence in Uber's long-term potential. Upon closing, it will help fuel our investments in technology and our continued expansion at home and abroad, while strengthening our corporate governance."
The agreement comes a month after Uber's board voted to eliminate its super-voting structure, in which early shareholders had 10 times the voting power, to a one vote per share model, according to a source familiar with the vote. The board also voted to expand the number of board members to 17, adding six seats to dilute additions made by Kalanick in September.
At the same time, Uber's board approved the sale of $10 billion of stock to SoftBank, a Japanese internet giant. SoftBank plans to acquire a 14 percent to 20 percent stake in the world's most valuable privately-held tech startup, board member Arianna Huffington said in October.
The vote came amid a tumultuous year for the ride-hailing startup, which has been rocked by a slew of scandals, including sexual harassment allegations that resulted in more than 20 Uber employees being fired. The company has been caught using a secretive tool called Greyball to avoid local authorities. The company is also defending itself against a trade-secret theft lawsuit from Waymo, a self-driving car business run by Alphabet, Google's parent company.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Heresy. Pure heresy.
Kids, please don't read this. 
Go play your video games or waft to Snapchat to look at fascinating pictures.
This is for adults only.
You see, Amazon has just released a Christmas ad that's peddling heresy and confusing children. At least in the eyes of some.
It features a dad who's ordered Christmas gifts on the famed retail site and is sneaking them upstairs so the kids don't see.
This is a scene that will happen in millions of homes all over the world. It is, however, a scene that, when presented on TV, is appalling some. 
The mere thought that some kids might see this and stop believing in Santa is just too much. 
Why, both the Sun and the Daily Mail explained that parents are turning to social media and screaming to the high heavens.
Here's a sample from Twitter. 
Parents' outrage over 'disgusting' Amazon Christmas advert which shows dad delivering presents NOT Santa - The Sun https://t.co/G64jF2c1fN
Some might wonder whether a gift-bearing Santa is actually in the Bible. I don't sink to such quibbling.
But some parents truly seem to be appalled that they now have to explain real life to 3-year-olds.
Thanks @amazon for your advert my 3 year old is asking why the man is hideing with presents, asking if he's Santa 🎅🏻 #confusing #Christmas
The 3-year-old asks a very good question. The man in the ad has a beard, albeit a dark one. He could be like Clark Kent during the day and Super Santa at night.
Naturally, some have chosen to make light of this manifestly serious situation.
Kid at Safeway: "Daddy, how does Santa deliver all those presents in one night?"Me, joining the conversation: "https://t.co/UyxWPyzISz same day free shipping"Dad, glaring at me, then nodding and smiling: "That's right! He uses Amazon like we do!"
I contacted Amazon's UK arm to ask about its apparent assault on hallowed values.
A company spokesman told me: "Father Christmas and his elves are no doubt working around the clock to get presents to girls and boys around the world. These are just a few extra to give a little love from parents."
Oh, dear. That's going to make it even more confusing for kids. 
So which presents are the more meaningful?
The ones that Santa brought? Or the ones that lazy old dad bought on Amazon? 
Dad, why did you only get me this Sigmund Freud coloring book, when Santa brought me an iPhone X and a horse?


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
He likes to tell a joke or two.
There's been so much news this week, what with the Xbox One X being launched and the iPhone X undergoing teething troubles. (Its teeth are chattering in the cold, apparently.)
You might, therefore, have missed a touching tweak of Apple's cheek offered by Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella on a trip to India.
He was there to create excitement around the idea that the Microsoft brand has changed. 
In many ways, the job Nadella has done to try to make Microsoft relevant in the modern world -- and still a competitor in some spheres to Apple -- has been praiseworthy.  
Indeed, he seems to be so confident now that he'll cheerily make quips about Apple.
As TechRadar's Sahil Mohan Gupta reports, Nadella walked into a room and couldn't help but chuckle.
"Nadella spots that I and a colleague have iPads and cheerfully says, 'You need to get a real computer, my friend,'" said Gupta. 
And you thought Nadella's overarching strategy was to be on good terms with everyone. 
It's curious how rival companies choose to periodically belittle Apple, then withdraw, only to succumb to the temptation all over again.
Microsoft, for example, has insisted that Windows 10 computers can do more than Macs. The company has laughed at Apple's claim that the iPad Pro is a computer. One of its executives has also suggested that the iPad Pro is merely an example of Apple copying Microsoft.
It's not as if Microsoft is alone. This week, Samsung emerged from a period of ignoring Apple in its ads to insult the last 10 years of the iPhone.
Neither Microsoft nor Apple responded to a request for comment.
Though Apple has long ignored competitors in its ads, its executives haven't always refrained from mocking other companies. Why, last year Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing, Phil Schiller, observed that using an old PC is "really sad."
Though Nadella's comment is surely industry humor, he does believe Microsoft is different from both Apple and Google.
"I don't want to take away from whatever success Apple or Google are  having," he told TechRadar. "We are very different companies. We are not some middleman in  the marketplace. We are a tool creator, we are not a luxury good  manufacturer. That's not who we are. We are about creating technologies  so that others can build."
Not a luxury good manufacturer? All right, now that is a bona fide Apple burn.
Does the Mac still matter? Apple execs explain why the MacBook Pro was over four years in the making, and why we should care.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.


Uber is fighting to have its London licence renewed.
Ride-hailing app Uber has lost an appeal against a ruling that its drivers should be classed as workers instead of as self-employed. 
Uber's appeal was rejected at the Employment Appeal Tribunal (EAT) in London on Friday morning, according to Reuters.
"I have been campaigning against Uber since 2014 and although I always knew I was on the right side, it has always been a struggle that has brought enormous pressure on us. I am glad that the judge today confirmed what I and thousands of drivers have known all along: That Uber is not only exploiting drivers, but also acting unlawfully," said co-claimant Yaseen Aslam, who has the backing of the Independent Workers' Union of Great Britain. 
Uber has said it will appeal the decision.
In today's tech news, Uber could stop operating in London within days, Facebook ditches plans to restructure shares and Homeland Security confirms 2016 election hacks.
"The tribunal relies on the assertion that drivers are required to take 80% of trips sent to them when logged into the app," said Tom Elvidge, Uber UK's acting general manager. "As drivers who use Uber know, this has never been the case in the UK. Over the last year we have made a number of changes to our app to give drivers even more control. We've also invested in things like access to illness and injury cover and we'll keep introducing changes to make driving with Uber even better. Almost all taxi and private hire drivers have been self-employed for decades, long before our app existed." 
The news comes as Uber continues to attempt to regain its licence in London after Transport for London, the city's transport regulator, said the company was "unfit" to serve the capital.
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.


Al Gore delivers a speech during the 2017 Web Summit in Lisbon.
Tech is already making the world a better place. It is helping refugees integrate into society, it is empowering people with disabilities, and connecting communities.
Al Gore believes it can been instrumental in reversing climate change.
"My purpose here is to recruit you to be part of the solution to the climate crisis," he told the audience at Web Summit -- Europe's biggest tech conference -- in Lisbon on Thursday. "You can have a bigger impact than practically any other group in the entire world."
It's the latest pitch by the former US vice president as he continues his mission to protect the environment. Gore, the man behind the award-winning documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" and chairman of Generation Investment Management, an investment fund focused on sustainable companies, believes change is coming.
Artificial intelligence, machine learning and the internet of things are trends that Gore said will help future generations more easily preserve the planet.
"Our world is now in the early stages of a sustainability revolution... that has the speed of the digital revolution," he said.
An area where tech is making a real impact is in making alternative sources of energy, including solar, battery storage and wind farms, more viable. When it comes to the generation of electricity, the cost of solar power has fallen so fast that it is now significantly cheaper in many parts of the world than other forms of electricity, Gore said.
"Tech is helping us to displace fossil fuels to generate electricity from new, sustainable sources," he said. "We can match it up to the transportation system by shifting over to electric vehicles as quick as we possibly can."
Solar energy and electric vehicles are close to Gore's heart but also his business interests. His group backs a solar energy company based in Africa, along with a number of clean energy-based mobility startups, including Gogoro -- an electric scooter company based in Taiwan.
"Gogoro was founded with the fundamental premise of doing good and doing well," Gogoro's CEO and founder Horace Luke said in an interview. "We share Al Gore's strong conviction for igniting the sustainability revolution and we are honored to have his support."
Gore stated several times in his speech that he would try to restrain himself from touching on politics. But when it came to discussing the Paris climate agreement, he couldn't help but comment on the US withdrawal from the treaty, which every other country in the world has now signed.
The US is still signed up to the Paris agreement until at least 2020, he said, adding: By the way, if there is a new president, a new president can simply give 30 days notice and the US is back in the agreement."
Thanks to the attitudes of individual states and businesses, the current figures show that the US will still meet and even exceed its commitments under the agreement. "We are going to do our part in spite of Donald Trump," Gore said.
But that doesn't solve the bigger problem. "If you add up all of the commitments," he said, "they still don't add up to enough to solve the crisis."
This is where the tech community has a chance to step in.
Gore reassured entrepreneurs in the audience that there were plenty of investors out there that weren't just funding tech "to make a quick buck," but to make a real difference in the world.
"I want you to know that there is a growing market for the kinds of initiative that many of you have labored long and hard to bring to fruition," he said. "Everything is at stake. Now is your time."


The percentage of women at Apple hasn't increased over the past year. 
Apple made some progress in hiring more minorities. But when it comes to women, its efforts fell flat. 
The company on Thursday released its annual diversity and inclusion report, the first since creating a new vice president position to oversee the area. Denise Young Smith, Apple's former head of HR, was named to the role in May.
Only about a third of Apple employees as of July 2017 were women, the same level as last year, the company said. When it came to underrepresented minorities, Apple reported a 1 percentage point increase to 23 percent. In the US, Apple's work force was 54 percent white, down two percentage points from the year earlier.
"We're proud of our accomplishments, but we have much more work to do," Apple said in its report. 
Apple has 130,000 full- and part-time employees around the world, with 83,000 of those working in the US. Its figures include its Apple Store employees, not just the engineers, designers and others working for the corporate parent. The company didn't disclose how many people work in retail.
Apple and other tech companies have been trying to diversify their workforce, which includes boosting the number of female and minority employees. Under CEO Tim Cook's leadership, Apple has put itself at the front of social issues like LGBT rights, racial equality and the tech industry's need to improve workforce diversity. Still, it's been difficult for Apple and its peers to show significant percentage increases in diversifying its employee base.
Apple said Thursday that the total number of female employees stayed flat at 32 percent as of July 2017. 
The company touted an improvement in attracting younger female employees. The number of female employees under the age of 30 has increased 5 percentage points over the past three years to 36 percent. Over that same timeframe, the total number of female employees has risen 2 percentage points, which equals 37,000 women. 
Apple's top leadership has showed little improvement in terms of boosting the number of women. In the past year, the number of women in leadership roles rose 1 percentage point to 29 percent. That was after staying flat at 28 percent from 2014 to 2016.
Only one woman, retail chief Angela Ahrendts, holds a title of senior vice president or higher, though Apple has promoted women to lower leadership levels in recent months, including Deidre O'Brien to vice president of people and Isabel Mahe to managing director of Greater China. 
"Our female representation is steadily increasing, and we're proud of the progress we're making," Apple said in its diversity report. 
Apple also said that it's been actively hiring more employees from "historically underrepresented groups in tech -- women, black, Hispanic, Native American, and Native Hawaiian & other Pacific Islander." From July 2016 to July 2017, 50 percent of its new hires came from those groups. The company said 15 percent of its new hires over the past year are Hispanic, while 11 percent are black. 
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Facebook is trying a new way to combat revenge porn.
Facebook is asking people to share their nude photos. But this isn't what it sounds like.
The goal of the social network's plan is make sure people's nude photos aren't used for revenge porn by a disgruntled ex-boyfriend or girlfriend, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corp. Facebook already has a reporting system in place for when someone's intimate photos are shared without consent, but the idea with this program is to nix the photos before they're disseminated in the first place.
The way it'll work is people will share their photos with Facebook via its Messenger app and the company will then "hash" the images, which is a process that converts the photos into a unique digital code. Once Facebook has that code, it can block the images from ever being uploaded to its site.
The company is piloting the technology in Australia with a small government agency headed by e-Safety Commissioner Julie Inman Grant.
"We see many scenarios where maybe photos or videos were taken consensually at one point, but there was not any sort of consent to send the images or videos more broadly," Inman Grant told the ABC.
Other tech companies have used similar types of hashing technology in efforts to rid the internet of child pornography. Google, Microsoft and Twitter have used unique digital codes to detect exploitative images, some of which have led to the arrests of people distributing the photographs on the web.
Facebook published a blog post Thursday that gives more specifics on the pilot project. The company said it's constantly working to prevent revenge porn and was looking to try something different. For the program, the social network has partnered with an international working group of survivors, victim advocates and other experts.
"This program is completely voluntary," wrote Antigone Davis, Facebook's global head of safety. "It's a protective measure that can help prevent a much worse scenario where an image is shared more widely."
Facebook didn't respond to a request for comment.
First published Nov. 8, 11:02 a.m. PT. Update, Nov. 9 at 3:16 p.m.: Adds information from Facebook blog post.
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.


San Francisco aims to cut down on ride-hailing drivers double-parking when picking up and dropping off passengers.
As ride-hailing services like Uber and Lyft have grown in popularity, so has a common complaint: congestion.
Cyclists complain bike lanes are blocked as drivers double-park to pick-up and drop-off passengers. Pedestrians say crosswalks are often obstructed. And other drivers say they get stuck behind ride-hailing cars pulled over to load up passengers.
San Francisco has asked Uber and Lyft to work with it to deal with these issues. Mayor Ed Lee publicly announced a pilot program on Tuesday that will designate specific loading zones for drivers of the ride-hailing companies, according to the San Francisco Examiner.
"The best way to solve any problem is to bring people to the table and build consensus," Lee said in a emailed statement. "By working together, we have created a data-driven pilot program that will address the public safety and traffic implications of ride-sharing vehicles double parking, blocking bike lanes and impeding traffic. This is just the beginning of our effort to make our streets safer for pedestrians and bicyclists and more efficient for all those on the road."
Lee initially sent letters to Uber and Lyft in May addressing his concerns around ride-hailing and public safety. Since then, the city and the companies have continued conversations on the matter.
"Lyft looks forward to partnering with the Mayor's office to see how we can most effectively and efficiently use curb space in the city," said a Lyft spokeswoman. "We have been participating in meetings with the pilot's stakeholder group since May and appreciate the Mayor's leadership on this important issue."
An Uber spokesman echoed Lyft's sentiments and said, "We've made substantial progress to meet our shared goals to reduce congestion and improve public safety."
The way the program would work is both companies would use what's called "geofencing" software in the app to tell passengers and drivers where to meet. Both Uber and Lyft already use the software in certain scenarios, like pick-ups at airports, train stations and sports arenas.
San Francisco is the first major city to announce plans to work with the companies to cut down on ride-hailing congestion. Both Uber and Lyft already use geofencing at the city's King Caltrain station and the California Pacific Medical Center campus. 
Once the loading zone pilot gets underway, Lee requested that the companies share data with the city, such as anonymized trip details. He said this is to ensure compliance from the companies and to evaluate the success of the program. It's still unclear when the pilot will begin and where and how many loading zones will be designated.
First published Nov. 8, 2:04 p.m. PT.Update, Nov. 9 at 2:36 p.m.: Adds comment from Mayor Ed Lee.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
CNET en Español: Get all your tech news and reviews in Spanish.


Logitech will replace the Harmony Link with its successor, the Harmony Hub.
Two months after Logitech announced it would be bricking its Harmony Link (which allows you to control your TV using a phone or tablet as a remote) and charging people to replace it with a newer product, it suddenly rose to a cause celebre across the web on Wednesday. On Thursday, Logitech announced on its blog that it would replace them for free -- and even offers a refund to those who've already buckled and bought it. 
Beginning with "we heard you and we want to make it right," Logitech went on to say it would contact current Harmony Link owners to initiate the replacement/refund process. You can also contact the company about it here. 
Logitech provided a bit more detail about the "why," as well:
We made the business decision to end the support and services of the Harmony Link when the encryption certificate expires in the spring of 2018 -- we would be acting irresponsibly by continuing the service knowing its potential/future vulnerability. Our system shows this product, which was last sold by Logitech in fall of 2015, had a small active user base.
While it still burns that a company can make a device you own simply stop working, there's really no way to win in this situation. Given the security vulnerabilities inherent in the internet of things, it makes sense to close the holes where you can.
Logitech also responded to the criticism that it was blocking the phrase "class action lawsuit" on its forums.
The words "class action lawsuit" were blocked as our Community Terms of Use do not allow solicitation, including legal solicitation. We have unblocked the terms and are reviewing our list of blocked terms.
That's kind of interesting, and I bet it's far from the only company that does that. After all, what business wants lawyers trolling the most fertile place to find angry customers in search of satisfaction?



On today's podcast, we talk about:
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by the CNET News team in New York and producer Bryan VanGelder.
Check out the extended shows on YouTube.


Has CNN become a key factor in AT&T's potential buyout of Time Warner?
AT&T's $85.4 billion acquisition of Time Warner has hit a snag. 
To close the deal, the US Justice Department is demanding that the Dallas-based telecommunications giant sell Turner Broadcasting, which includes CNN, according to the Financial Times (account required), which cited unnamed sources. The New York Times reported that AT&T could also win approval if it sold its DirecTV unit, which it just acquired in 2015. 
The reports are accurate, according to people familiar with the situation. 
CNN and Turner Broadcasting is a principal asset at Time Warner, which includes movie and television studios such as HBO, as well as publishing and music businesses. AT&T is hoping to use its acquisition of Time Warner to cement its position as a Hollywood powerhouse, diversifying itself away from offering just phone, wireless and pay-TV services. 
AT&T and Time Warner would go to court to challenge the government's legal basis for blocking the deal if these demands are formally made, the Times reported.
"Until now, we've never commented on our discussions with the DOJ," AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson said. "But given DOJ's statement this afternoon, it's important to set the record straight. Throughout this process, I have never offered to sell CNN and have no intention of doing so."
AT&T Chief Financial Officer John Stephens said this morning that it was unclear when the deal would close. The company had previously said the transaction would be completed by the end of the year, but last month it extended the deadline. 
A Time Warner spokesman declined to comment. 
A spokesman for the Justice Department declined to comment on the AT&T-Time Warner deal. 
"The Department is committed to carrying out its duties in accordance with the laws and the facts. Beyond that, the Department does not comment on any pending investigation."
President Donald Trump has been a frequent critic of CNN, often calling its content "fake news" and arguing that the news channel presents him in an unfavorable light. During the presidential campaign last year, Trump said he would squash the deal if he were to become president.
First published Nov. 8, 11:39 a.m. PTUpdate, 12:57 p.m.: Adds comment from AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson.Update, 2:22 p.m.: With Time Warner declining to comment.
Update, Nov. 9, 9 a.m.: Adds Justice Department comment. 
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
CNET en Español: Get all your tech news and reviews in Spanish.


Now you'll see crowd sourced restaurant ratings in the UberEats app.
UberEats wants to get to know you.
The food-delivery service added three new features to its app on Thursday that aim to learn your tastes, preferences and likes. It'll now show "recommended for you" menu items, eater-generated restaurant ratings and also let you "favorite" certain dining spots. Essentially, UberEats is getting more personal.
"With such a large and growing selection of restaurants on the platform, we're thinking how can we show you what you want," said Ambika Krishnamachar, a product manager for UberEats.
UberEats is the food-delivery branch of the ride-hailing service Uber. Similar to how people can hail an Uber ride with the push of a button on their smartphone, they can also order food from dozens of local restaurants using the UberEats app.
UberEats suggests menu items based on what you've ordered in the past.
On-demand food is a competitive space. Besides UberEats, people have a multitude of apps to choose from. There's Caviar, Grubhub, Seamless, DoorDash and Postmates. There's also the old-fashioned choice of simply calling a restaurant and ordering food, although not all restaurants deliver. By making its service more personalized, UberEats aims to stand above the rest.
The food delivery service first launched in 2014 in Los Angeles under the moniker UberFresh. Then eventually it morphed into UberEats with an official launch in Toronto, Canada, in December 2015. By the end of 2016, UberEats was is 56 cities worldwide. Today it's in 130 cities and is slated to be in 200 by the end of the year. UberEats is even in some cities that don't have the ride-hailing service, such as Tokyo, Taipei and Seoul.
UberEats partners with restaurants, so restaurants can decide what they want to sell on the app. The company charges restaurants a service fee that's calculated as a percentage of its sales on the platform. Uber now has partnerships with 80,000 restaurants, which include everything from upscale eateries to McDonald's.
"With an increasing choice of selection it becomes a little bit more difficult to choose what you want to order," said Calvin Lee, UberEats product manager. Uber has created "technical solutions to solve some of the pain points for our customers."
UberEats' new "recommended for you" feature uses machine learning to personalize the app based on what each person is ordering and favoriting. It looks at past restaurant and menu item choices to make suggestions -- much like how Netflix makes movie recommendations. So, if you tend to order pasta, UberEats will likely show you a restaurant's spaghetti, lasagna or tortellini dishes.
"Every single consumer on the platform is super different," Krishnamachar said. "By learning your preferences we can more intelligently suggest food that you like."
UberEats' new restaurant ratings work a little differently. Krishnamachar said ratings aim to better guide eaters in picking restaurants and to help restaurants better learn what dishes are resonating with people. The feature will have a five-star rating system and show feedback over the last 90 days.
Sometimes negative ratings can hurt restaurants. Businesses have complained that they've lost customers after receiving bad ratings on sites like Yelp, OpenTable and MenuPages. Krishnamachar said negative ratings shouldn't harm UberEats' partner restaurants since they refresh on a rolling 90-day basis.
"It motivates a high-quality experience across the board," she said. "At the end of the day, we're reflecting what customers are saying."
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.


TripAdvisor warning badge.
TripAdvisor has started adding warnings to business pages where public safety issues -- including sexual assault -- have been reported.
"We have decided to introduce a new 'badge' notification that will be displayed on a business' listing page when an issue relating to that business is reported on by credible media sources, such as issues around health and safety or allegations of discrimination," a spokesperson said in a statement.
"We've made the decision to badge several hotels in Mexico, most recently reported on within the press for having issues with tainted alcohol and sexual assault."
The badges will remain on a company's page for three months, but will be extended for longer if reports persist.
"The aim of the badge is to alert travellers to issues they may want to more fully research outside of TripAdvisor."
TripAdvisor came under fire recently, TechCrunch reports, for removing a review in which the writer described being raped at a hotel resort. TripAdvisor restored the review and the resort is one of the businesses that features the new warning badge.


Snap's growth hasn't been the most encouraging.
There's someone who still believes in Snapchat's creators.
Chinese tech behemoth Tencent has taken a 12 percent stake in social media giant Snap, according to the Financial Times. Tencent sits among China's three biggest tech companies along with Baidu and Alibaba, collectively known as BAT.
The news, revealed Wednesday in Snap's quarterly filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, comes after the company posted disappointing results of its growth this quarter.
This is not Tencent's first investment in a US company that brought us disappearing messages. Tencent bought a 5 percent stake in Tesla in March. Tencent, the creator of popular Chinese mobile game Honour of Kings, also owns Riot Games, the maker of League of Legends.
It's no secret that Tencent has been making efforts to expand to the US. Also the owner of Chinese messaging platform, WeChat, Tencent brought its digital payment service, WeChat Pay, to the US earlier this year.
In the SEC filing, Snap said it has "long been inspired by the creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of Tencent." 
Tencent President Martin Lau said the company "looks forward to sharing ideas and experiences." This could come in the form of a collaboration between both companies on mobile games and news feed, according to a statement obtained by Reuters.
CNET has reached out to Tencent and Snap for comments.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.



Huawei is the biggest phone brand you've never heard of. But that second part could change soon.
Code found by XDA Developers indicates a version of Huawei's latest premium phone, the Mate 10 Pro, will be sold through AT&amp;T. The firmware in question showed a Mate 10 Pro loaded with AT&T's apps and software.
This follows months of rumours that AT&T would carry a flagship Huawei phone in the first half of next year, which stemmed from an August report from The Information.
Huawei is the third biggest phone brand in the world, thanks in large part to strong sales in its populous homeland of China. It sold 39 million phones in the third quarter of the year, IDC research showed last week, around 7 million less than Apple.
The Mate 10 Pro is the company's attempt to battle big-screen competitors like the Samsung Galaxy Note 8, Google Pixel 2 XL and Apple's iPhone 8 Plus. It sports a 6-inch display with an 18:9 ratio, and like many phones this year is almost all screen with minimal bezel.
The phone is powered by Huawei's own Kirin 970 processor, a chip roughly comparable to Qualcomm's premium Snapdragon 835. The Kirin 970 has a neural processing unit, or NPU, which the company says improves the Mate 10 Pro's AI capabilities, battery and performance.
Huawei was also the first company to jump on the recent dual-camera craze. Months before Apple released the iPhone 7 Plus, Huawei's P9 phone was equipped with two Leica-branded shooters on its back.
Huawei has technically been selling phones in the US since 2014, but only its budget phones and almost exclusively online. Almost all phones in the US are bought through carriers -- nine out of 10, according to Counterpoint research analyst Neil Shah -- so a deal with AT&T would be the beginning of Huawei's first real shot at cracking the market.
Huawei was contacted for comment while AT&T declined to comment.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition.


The public cafe at Apple Park's visitor center.
If you have been itching for a closer look at Apple's new campus, you may get your chance starting next week.
The visitor center at the new Apple Park campus will open to the public on Nov. 17, according to MacRumors, which cited what it said was an internal email sent to employees Wednesday. That date also appears on an Apple Park sign shared on Twitter on Tuesday that refers to a "grand opening."
Image of an Apple sign identified as being at Apple Park's visitor center.
Apple Park is home to several buildings, most prominently a 2.8 million square foot ring unofficially known as the Spaceship, which boasts four-story curved glass panels, custom aluminum door handles and one of the largest roof-mounted solar farms in the world. It's the new home for more than 12,000 Apple employees, a sizable chunk of Apple's Cupertino, California, workforce. 
The new Apple Park Visitor Center houses its own Apple retail store and Apple's first-ever public cafe, plus an exhibit space.
Apple didn't respond to a request for comment.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


After passing the Senate Commerce Committee, new legislation to stop online sex trafficking will now go to the full Senate for a vote.
The US Senate Commerce Committee voted unanimously Wednesday to pass legislation that could curb online sex trafficking.
The legislation would amend a section of the Communications Decency Act by including the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, S. 1693. The idea of the new act is to better empower state law enforcement officials to go after websites that enable sex trafficking.
Online sex trafficking is often perpetuated though sites like Backpage.com, which has classified advertising where people can solicit prostitutes. Many of the people on this website are trafficked women and children, according to the National Center on Sexual Exploitation.
Now that the bipartisan legislation has passed the Commerce Committee it will go to the full Senate for a vote.
"Congress is one step closer to passing the most important anti-trafficking legislation in nearly twenty years," Lisa L. Thompson, vice president of research and education at the National Center on Sexual Exploitation, said in a statement. "There is no change to federal law more urgent and necessary to fighting sex trafficking than a strong, but narrowly crafted, amendment to the Communications Decency Act."
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
CNET en Español: Get all your tech news and reviews in Spanish.


RIP (in March 2018).
In September, Logitech sent an email to Harmony Link owners stating that the six-year-old product, which lets you control your TV via an app on your phone or tablet, will cease to function after March 16, 2018. 
On a typical Wednesday in November, due to the mysterious forces that govern the web, the story suddenly blew up after newer posts to Logitech's forums caught the eye of Reddit, spurring a tide of angry (and amusing) comments.  
The ire was fued by claims that Logitech was censoring the words "class action lawsuit" in the forums, replacing it with "***** ****** *******." The words were visible in spots when I looked at it, but there were tips in the Reddit thread about circumventing the censorship with unicode characters, which could be why.
One source of umbrage is Logitech's somewhat tone-deaf offer of a 35 percent discount off its newer Harmony Hub smart-home controller, which added a physical remote (now with Alexa!). After all, what's to stop it from bricking that after a few years, too? 
And of course, it renews the debate over cloud-enabled devices and the implicit problem that a company can kill hardware that you've bought because it has the right to disable the software or services that you license to enable it to function.
CNET did not rate the Harmony Link highly when it was released, saying, "you're better off with a standard Harmony remote."


It's early morning. I'm standing on a closed airport runway in Cornwall, England. The weather, foggy with a cold breeze biting at my jacket, doesn't bode well for what I'm about to witness. But in a few hours, a rocket-powered car will roar to life on a trial run in front of thousands of eagerly-waiting public and media.
The Bloodhound SSC is the car that in 2018 will hit speeds of over 1,000 mph, breaking the land-speed record. At least, that's what its designers hope. 
The main attempt, already delayed by over a year, will take place in the desert of South Africa. This run, however, took place on the 2-mile runway at Newquay Airport, in the far southwestern corner of the country about a 6-hour drive from London.
Built from a combination of titanium, aluminium and carbon fibre, the Bloodhound is powered by an EJ200 jet engine -- more commonly found inside Eurofighter Typhoon jets and a cluster of rockets. It's an imposing machine at more than 44 feet (13 meters) long, tapering to a dangerously-sharp point and adorned with stabilising fins. It looks more like a missile than a car.
Bloodhound Chief Executive Richard Noble says the £65 million ($85 million) project is an enormous challenge. "We had no idea of the workload that was actually necessary to get to this stage," he said. "You're asking people to sponsor a project where the outcome is not by any means certain, where the finances are shaky, where the technology wasn't even known."
The Cornwall run is designed to see how the car performs at speed. Various modifications have been made for it to run on tarmac, rather than the desert floor. Most notably, the runway configuration has rubber tires. In the desert, the car will run on solid aluminium tires because rubber will simply disintegrate at 1,000 mph speeds.
The Bloodhound is towed from the hangar to the airstrip.
Despite the remote location and the miserably cloudy weather, 3,500 people have turned up eager to watch. And by mid-afternoon, conditions are right for the run.
Public and press are carefully shepherded onto the airfield into the main viewing areas. The team has a tight window for the show -- it's an active airport, and all flights are grounded for only 90 minutes while the tests take place. There's no room for delays.
A team of engineers push the car into place at one end of the runway, and driver Andy Green gives it a final check. I hear on a nearby radio that he's been given the go ahead to start. I watch Green climb into the cockpit and hear the sound of jet engines starting up. The noise grows louder and louder, and the car slowly pulls away to line up on the runway for the speed run to begin.
The rocket-powered car reaches over 200 mph in the test run.  
There's a moment of quiet and then the rockets fire. A huge cone of flame bursts from the back of the Bloodhound, sending it hurtling down the runway. I try to keep up with its pace with my zoom lens, but it's tricky. I don't know how I'd cope photographing the 1,000 mph run!
The first run is over in a matter of seconds. The car is turned around and it runs again, flying past the crowd with just as much noise and excitement. And then it's over. A whole day's effort, a massive crowd in attendance, media from around the world, all for about 30 seconds of movement. But what a 30 seconds.
The 1.7-mile (2.7km) runway meant the car was only taken to a little over 200 mph, but Green, a Wing Commander in the Royal Air Force, said that was enough to achieve success.
Around 4,000 members of the public came along to watch the speed run.
"This is a car that's designed to cruise supersonic on a 12-mile track in South Africa," he said. "It is not designed to be driven like a drag racing car on a short concrete track at Cornwall airport. Despite that, the car just delivered in spades."
The Bloodhound achieved its 200 mph target speed in just 8 seconds, with an acceleration equivalent to doing 0-60 mph in a regular road car in just two seconds. To give that some context, a Ford Focus will do 0-60 in about 9 seconds, while even the $2.5m Bugatti Chiron takes 2.5 seconds to reach 60 mph.
For Noble, though, the Cornwall run wasn't about numbers. "What was so important about today was the people," he said. "We've got a fantastic turnout of people here and more coming over the weekend. That's all very important as the prime objective of the project is to create a new generation of scientists and engineers and this is clearly what this thing is doing."
Driver Wing Commander Andy Green
It's a sentiment echoed by the aerodynamic designer of Bloodhound. "To see the crowd reaction, and seeing the kids get excited, that's very special," said Ron Ayers. "That is the object, not to break a record -- we already have the record (Ayers worked on the Thrust SSC car, which still holds the record at 763 mph) -- we're doing it to inspire young people and what inspires young people more than high-speed cars!"
Honestly, the day was exciting for me too. 
When I first saw the Bloodhound three years ago, the team was still building it at their production facility in Bristol, England. Back then, the car was a collection of parts. The massive rocket safely stowed in one corner of the building, with the aluminium structures built to hold it laid out nearby. That's why, despite the grey day and a 5 a.m. start, it was amazing to finally see the car in action.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.


Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi has a list of new rules for employees to follow.
CEO Dara Khosrowshahi unveiled new company rules on Tuesday designed to clean up the startup's workplace culture.
Khosrowshahi said in a LinkedIn post he determined after a few months on the job that the "culture and approach that got Uber where it is today is not what will get us to the next level." Among the eight rules was "We do the right thing. Period."
The new rules are part of Khosrowshahi's attempt to rescue a brand hit hard by a slew of scandals in the past couple of months. Khosrowshahi was appointed in August to fill the post, which had been vacant since co-founder Travis Kalanick was forced out of the job two months earlier.
Among the new rules is "we celebrate differences … we encourage different opinions and approaches to be heard" and "we are customer obsessed. We work tirelessly to earn our customers' trust and business by solving their problems."
Khosrowshahi was hired to right a company rocked by a tumultuous year, one in which its CEO was forced to resign. More than 20 employees were fired after an investigation into sexual harassment allegations. Also, the company is defending itself against a trade-secret theft lawsuit from Waymo, a self-driving car business run by Alphabet, Google's parent company.
An internal investigation led by former US Attorney General Eric Holder looked into systemic discrimination, harassment and retaliation at the San Francisco company. After a monthslong investigation, Holder made 47 recommendations on how to clean up its workplace culture.
Uber's new rules are the result of Holder's recommendation that Uber "reformulate" its 14 cultural values. Up until then, when new hires joined the company, they were asked to subscribe to a unique set of "values." These included meritocracy, toe-stepping, principled confrontation and "always be hustlin'."
Core principles such as being obsessed with customers remained in the rules, while meritocracy, or the philosophy that power is vested in individuals based on their ability and talent, didn't carry over.
"Uber has always been a company that embraces change, and going forward we'll approach our culture in the same way," Khosrowshahi wrote. "We certainly don't expect these norms to change overnight, or every year, but we always want to take stock of who we are, who we want to be, and move accordingly."
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter.


This self-driving Lyft car is slated to be hitting San Francisco roads soon.
Self-driving cars are a common sight in Silicon Valley but not something New Yorkers are used to. That could soon change.
Lyft announced Tuesday that it's opening a New York City office and in a hint about what it may be working on, the company said some of its engineers there will be working on its self-driving car tech. The company didn't confirm it's bringing autonomous vehicles to the city, however. 
Lyft is also staffing its New York office with engineers working on infrastructure and marketplace efforts. The ride-hailing company said the diversity of New York's neighborhoods and urban layout make it an ideal place to test out its technology.
"This space makes it possible for us to draw on the incredible pool of talent in NYC to continue improving the experience passengers and drivers across the country have every day," Nancy Losey, Lyft's head of office operations, said in a statement.
Up until a few months ago, Lyft had announced only a handful of partnerships with self-driving companies, like Nutonomy, General Motors and Waymo, the self-driving car unit of Google parent company Alphabet. But in July it said it was starting to work on its own autonomous vehicle software and hardware.
As part of this endeavor, Lyft said, the company was working on opening a new Silicon Valley engineering facility dedicated to autonomous vehicle development. It's since partnered with Drive.ai, a company that makes software for autonomous vehicles, to bring self-driving cars to San Francisco -- though these cars aren't yet on city streets.
Lyft partner Cruise Automation, which is owned by General Motors, announced last month that it's planning to test self-driving cars in New York within the next year.
"Testing in New York will accelerate the timeline to deploying self-driving cars at scale," Kyle Vogt, CEO of Cruise Automation, said at the time. "New York City is one of the most densely populated places in the world and provides new opportunities to expose our software to unusual situations, which means we can improve our software at a much faster rate." 
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 


The iPhone 8 Plus has a dual-lens camera, like its predecessor, the 7 Plus. 
An Israeli startup has accused Apple of using its dual-camera technology without permission.
In  a lawsuit, Corephotonics says Apple wasn't authorized to use its patented tech in the iPhone 7 Plus and iPhone 8 Plus. The suit, reported eaerlier by Reuters, was filed in federal court in San Jose on Monday.
The Tel Aviv-based company alleges that it talked to Apple about partnering, but the tech giant ultimately passed on licensing the tech.
"Apple's lead negotiator expressed contempt for Corephotonics' patents, telling [CEO] Dr. Mendlovic and others that even if Apple infringed, it would take years and millions of dollars in litigation before Apple might have to pay something," the complaint says. Corephotonics is seeking damages, but didn't specify an amount. 
Neither Apple nor Corephotonics immediately returned a request for comment.
Apple introduced dual-lens camera tech in its iPhone 7 Plus model last year, but it isn't the only phone maker offering such a setup. Other devices include the Samsung Note 8, the Moto Z2 Force, LG's V30 and the OnePlus 5. And the feature goes back at least as far as 2011, when it was included in the HTC Evo 3D.


Snapchat's growth just slowed to a crawl.
Snap, the company behind the social network, saw daily active users climb by 5 million in the third quarter -- just 3 percent growth from the second quarter and 17 percent from a year ago -- bringing the total to 178 million.
That trails the 300 million daily users on rival Instagram stories. Instagram's parent, Facebook, boasted a year-over-year 16 percent growth rate, but off a base of more than 2 billion users.
Snap takes a huge tumble posting a $443 million loss in the third quarter.
The numbers illustrate the fact that Snapchat still faces stiff competition from Facebook and Instagram. While Snapchat has been successful in attracting younger users, it remains a mystery to a broader audience. Its array of filters and the idea of disappearing messages presents an intimidating barrier for people trying it out. 
On the other hand, Facebook's Instagram Stories continues to grow at an impressive clip. 
"One thing that we have heard over the years is that Snapchat is difficult to understand or hard to use, and our team has been working on responding to this feedback," Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said Tuesday in a prepared statement, adding that the company is planning a redesign to make the application easier to use.
"We don't yet know how the behavior of our community will change when they begin to use our updated application," Spiegel said. "We're willing to take that risk for what we believe are substantial longterm benefits to our business." 
More bad news: Snap also took a $40 million charge to write down unsold Spectacles. Spiegel said the company made the "wrong decision" based on the early sales traction. "We're learning from it and plan to avoid a similar mistake in the future," he said during an earnings call with analysts.
The company reported a loss of $443.2 million, or 36 cents a share. Excluding one-time items, Snap lost 14 cents a share, narrower than the average analyst estimate of a loss of 15 cents a share, according to Yahoo Finance. 
A year ago, the company lost $124.2 million, or 15 cents a share.
Snap's revenue rose more than 60 percent, to $207.9 million, but still fell far below analysts' expectations of $239.5 million. Despite that, Spiegel said the company now reaches 70 percent of the key 13- to 34-year-old population in the US, UK, France and Australia.
"Our audience may not be the largest today, but we feel that it is the most strategic, and that's a really strong base to grow from," he said. "We're not afraid to make changes in the best interest of growing the user base."
Last month, research firm eMarketer anticipated Snap's global advertising revenue would hit $774.1 million this year, markedly down from its previous estimate of $900 million. However, eMarketer expects revenue to grow about 90 percent to $1.47 billion in 2018.
"Despite all of its improvements in ad products and measurement, Snapchat remains in the experimental bucket for many marketers," the firm said. "They give it high marks for its creative possibilities and its ability to attract a youth audience, but many have yet to make it a must-buy."
Meanwhile, Snap's stock remains well below its post-initial public offering peak price of $29.44 as shares have declined nearly 40 percent since going public. Shares fell more than 18 percent to $12.40 in after-hours trading.
First published Nov. 7, 1:38 p.m. PTUpdate, 5:04 p.m.: Adds comments from Evan Spiegel.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.


European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager on stage at Web Summit in Lisbon, Portugal.
European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager isn't known for giving Silicon Valley companies an easy ride.
Under her leadership, the Competition Commission last year ruled that Apple owed Ireland $14.5 billion in back taxes. And earlier this year, it came down hard on Google, fining the company $2.7 billion over its online shopping results.
By prioritizing its own shopping comparisons in search results and pushing competitors back to page four, Google denied consumers a choice of shopping services, the commission decided.
"How many of you would like to find your companies on page four of search results?" Vestager asked the audience during a talk Tuesday at Web Summit in Lisbon, Portugal. Unsurprisingly, no one raised a hand.
Vestager offered a simple suggestion to tech companies looking to operate in Europe: show your trustworthiness by abiding by its rules. 
That sounds obvious, but tech companies have struggled to do so, with giants like Google, Microsoft and Apple getting into hot water with the EU. 
It isn't necessarily about how powerful a company is, Vestager said, but whether a company is using its power to engage in anticompetitive practices. 
"We have no objection to Google dominating the market with its search engine. We just don't want it to use that dominance to squeeze out competition," Vestager said. A lack of competition, she said, can "end up closing the door to innovation. Companies like Google have a responsibility because they hold all these powers."
Google didn't reply to a request for comment on Vestager's remarks, but the company did respond in September to the EU's decision by opening up shopping spots to rivals. Vestager will continue to meet with Google and its competitors to judge whether the search giant is doing enough.
Vestager's scrutiny has also landed on Apple, because of the company's tax practices in Ireland. Coming down hard on tax issues isn't just about making an example of companies that benefit from creative accounting, she said. "It's important for Europeans to know that value created in Europe is taxed in Europe."
This weekend's revelations in the Paradise Papers suggested Apple moved money to the Channel Islands off the coast of England to avoid paying more tax in Ireland, but Vestager said the EU was already on the case.
"We have taken an interest in getting to know how Apple is organized now, and we did that before the papers," she said. The commission hasn't spoken to Apple since the publication of the papers, she said, adding that it's too early to decide whether to launch the commission's own investigation on the subject.
Apple rebutted the Paradise Papers report in a lengthy response posted on its site. And CEO Tim Cook dismissed last year's Competition Commission ruling as "political crap."
Vestager said she hasn't stopped to consider how Silicon Valley giants might view her as a result of her and the commission's decisions, but she said she hoped all companies would aim to respect legislation and, in so doing, respect their customers.
Companies have to put fairness and trust at the core of their business, she said, to ensure "society (is)  served by technology and not the other way around."
"It is important for any company to respect the rules of the game," she said.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
He has better things to do with his hands than hold a phone.
You can't just sit there.
If you have a phone to sell, especially a new one, you have to at least try and capture some attention. Even though it seems that Apple's iPhone X is the only phone in Mediatown right now.
On Sunday, Samsung chose to celebrate the iPhone X launch with an ad mocking the last 10 years of the iPhone.
Google waited until Monday to release a new ad that had a little more decorum, suggesting its Pixel 2 phone was simply more phone than any other.
The ad is a quite magical portrayal of just how lazy humanity has become.
People seem to want their phones to do everything for them. And, with a phone that has superior AI at its core, the Pixel 2 seems well positioned to fulfill our pretensions to an absolutely sloth-like future. 
Here we have attractive young humans desperately wanting their phone to tell them if they need an umbrella. Because looking through a window is just so 20th century.
Then there are those who can't be bothered to press a button to take a selfie. They just want to order their phone to do it for them.
Talking of orders, the Pixel can also order you a sandwich. This allows you to simply not move at all.
Naturally, the ad pauses halfway through to make an Apple joke -- the standard Android one about the alleged lack of infinite photo storage on an iPhone. 
The whole effect is very fetching. 
However, Google hasn't yet mastered the logistical issues that come with launching a new phone.
In my own visits to both a Verizon store and a Best Buy, I didn't find salespeople even wanting me to be excited by the Pixel 2. At Best Buy, there was only one Pixel 2 I could even look at and that was in a locked cupboard.
Moreover, there have been some very basic snafus. Sending customers Pixel 2's that didn't have an operating system, for example. Then there were the screen burn-in issues suffered by the Pixel 2 XL, which caused by colleague Lynn La to amend her review in a slightly less enthusiastic direction. (Apple has also admitted its iPhone X may have screen-burn problems)
Google didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Still, the company says it's committed to hardware and must do what it can to make it seem desirable. Hardware is extremely difficult. Why, according to Samsung, Apple hasn't managed to get it right once in 10 years.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.


Airbnb's headquarters, pictured here, are in San Francisco where it's partnering with the city's largest residential landlord. 
Once a foe to landlords, Airbnb is now working with some of them.
The home rental site announced Sunday that it's partnered with San Francisco's largest residential landlord, Veritas Investments. The idea is to let tenants in Veritas buildings list their apartments on Airbnb for short-term rentals and then share the profit with their landlord.
"Veritas is a leader and innovator in the real estate community," Jaja Jackson, Airbnb's director of global multi-family housing partnerships, said in a statement.
In just under a decade, Airbnb has gone from a website for couch surfers to having a massive online presence. It lists millions of homes for short-term rentals in almost every country on Earth. That growth, however, has come with challenges.
The company has waged extended battles with landlords, regulators and housing advocates in major cities around the world, including San Francisco, New York, Paris, Berlin and Barcelona. So, over the past year, the company has been working to make nice with lawmakers and landlords.
Many landlords don't allow tenants to sublet their apartments on Airbnb. That's because it typically comes with more risk and no profit for them. But, increasingly, Airbnb is working with landlords on profit-sharing deals. The company announced a partnership with a major landlord in Florida last month that's similar to its Veritas deal. 
As for Veritas, it will initially let tenants in five of its buildings list their apartments on Airbnb. The landlord will get 10 percent of that short-term rental profit and said it will put some of the money back into the building for upgrades and program oversight. Veritas owns more than 200 buildings in San Francisco.
Along with Veritas, Airbnb also announced Sunday that it's partnering with tech startup Pillow. Pillow aims to make it easier for people to rent out homes on Airbnb. The company has tools like an "online dashboard" that gives people information on a building's specs and prices for short-term rentals in a certain neighborhood. Under the new partnership, Pillow will be available to people living in Veritas buildings.
"We reached out to and surveyed residents, and there's a great deal of interest in this new aspect of the 'sharing economy,'" Yat-Pang Au, Veritas CEO, said in a statement. "Airbnb and Pillow can help our residents with economic empowerment and could further differentiate our properties."
Airbnb has partnered with other landlords in similar deals under an initiative it started a year ago called "Friendly Buildings Program." Like the Veritas partnership, landlords who join this program allow tenants to rent out their apartments on a short-term basis for a cut of the profit. So far, landlords across the US and in Canada have enrolled more than 13,000 units in the Friendly Buildings Program.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
Life, disrupted: In Europe, millions of refugees are still searching for a safe place to settle. Tech should be part of the solution. But is it?


With technology increasingly intertwined with all aspects of business, CNET@Work can help you -- from prosumers to small businesses with fewer than five employees -- get started.
With more entrepreneurs opening small and home-based businesses, questions about taxes and taxation are inevitable. This primer aims to provide some answers. However, you should consult your tax advisor on your specific situation.
There have to be some tax advantages to compensate for the risk of opening a home-based business, right? In addition, there are pitfalls to avoid, guidelines to follow and things to know in order to keep you out of the Internal Revenue Service's crosshairs.
(In addition, tax reform may be the horizon. But as of this writing, there are not enough details known to make any determination of the potential impacts.)
If you don't want a negative tax-time surprise, include the amount of self-employed tax owed in your quarterly estimated tax payments.
Depending on how your business is organized, if you are a sole proprietor, or LLC, then you are responsible for self-employment tax. Unlike those employed by others and paid as employees, the self-employed are responsible for what is in essence double FICA and Medicare taxes.
As an employee, you have likely noticed the 7.65 percent that is deducted from your paycheck: 6.2 percent for Social Security and 1.45 percent for Medicare, which maxes out at $7,886.40 in 2017 on earnings of $127,200. Your employer pays the same amount on your behalf. The self-employed, however are both the employee and employer, and pay both halves, for a maximum of $19,461.60.
Those caught unaware of this can be whipsawed at tax time. Since many self-employed do not draw an actual paycheck, and thus taxes are not withheld, it is easy to lose sight of this liability until tax-filing season, which can make for an awful shock to the wallet.
For example, if your business earns $100,000 and you are considered self-employed, the self-employment tax alone would be $15,200. That does not include income taxes. The remedy, especially if you don't want a negative tax-time surprise, and potential IRS underpayment penalties, is to include the amount of self-employed tax owed in your quarterly estimated tax payments.
Some of this double taxation can be offset due to the fact that the self-employed are able to deduct 50 percent of the self-employed tax they pay from their income. In the 25 percent income tax bracket in the above example, that would equate to a $1,900 reduction in federal income tax -- better than nothing.
There are several retirement options open to small businesses.
As a self-employed business owner, if you don't have access to a spouse's health insurance plan, you're on your own to obtain coverage. Health insurance markets have changed dramatically in the last decade. With the advent of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, private insurance as we once knew it no longer exists. 
The bad news: Insurance plans -- which no longer allow consumers to pick and choose what is covered (such as maternity care, mental health or a "free" preventative visit) -- can be much more expensive. Here's what hasn't changed: The self-employed still can deduct their health insurance premiums, much like the self-employment tax deduction.
One of the issues we all face is saving for retirement. One of the many risks for the self-employed comes with leaving the sometimes comfortable confines of the corporate world, where you are able to contribute $18,000 to your company's 401K plan (plus $6,000 if over age 50), and more than likely have a portion of that matched by the employer.
There are several options open to small businesses. Perhaps the best and most flexible is the Self Employed 401K Plan, also known as the Solo 401K. This option is for employers with no additional employees other than the owner and spouse. It is not subject to the rather stringent requirement that traditional 401K plans must adhere to and are easy to set up.
Many providers have a very streamlined process making it easy to start such a plan. From there, the business owner wears two hats:
Total maximum contribution, including "employee" and "employer" contribution for 2017, is $54,000 for those under age 50, and $60,000 for those 50 and over.
The record keeping and administrative burdens of such a plan are light. Once the plan's assets reach $250,000, form 5500-EZ must be filed with the IRS. However, just like the rest of this, it is a "simple" form to fill out, and should not take more than 10 minutes.
Last but not least, the Solo 401K plan is available in both ROTH and traditional tax-deductible forms.
You can deduct quite a bit as a small business owner. 
The truth is, there's quite a bit that you can deduct as a small business owner. If you're a sole proprietor, or have formed a limited liability company (or LLC), you or your tax professional will likely file a Schedule C (Profit or Loss From Business-Sole Proprietorship). If your total business expenses are less than $5,000, you can use schedule C-EZ.
Here, you will list your revenue and expenses, which can run the gamut from advertising to office expenses, supplies, repairs and maintenance, travel, deductible meals and entertainment, legal and professional services, utilities, taxes and licenses, and rent, among other categories. There's also an "other category" where small business owners will expense items such as subscriptions, telephone and internet expenses, and perhaps additional items, depending on the nature of their business.
There's quite a bit of speculation and often questions among small business owners as to what they can and cannot deduct. In a nutshell, legitimate business expenses must be:
Depending on the type of business you operate, you will likely have to purchase equipment. This could include everything from a computer, monitors, laptop, printer, desks, tables, chairs and the list goes on. While larger businesses typically depreciate these assets over time, essentially claiming a small piece of the cost each year based on the useful life of the asset, small businesses can essentially expense these assets for tax purposes in the year they're purchased.
See also: How to calculate depreciation on computer hardware: The smart person's guide
Termed "Section 179" depreciation, there is a generous limit, up to $500,000 per year. So if you purchase a laptop for $2,000 that is used solely for business purposes, rather than depreciating it over its useful life (determined by the IRS to be five years), which itself would allow a $400 deduction, you can deduct the entire $2,000 in the year of purchase. This provides a tax incentive for small businesses to purchase equipment. The tax savings can be considerable; remember the 15.2 percent self-employment tax mentioned previously? That's calculated after expenses.
Not to worry: If there are assets used for both business and personal reasons -- called "mixed-use assets" -- you can still take a partial deduction, based on the percentage of business use. These can include that laptop that you use half the time for business, as well as a portion of your internet and phone bills.
If an area of your home is used exclusively for your business, you may be eligible for the home office deduction.
In addition, that can include expenses for the business use of your car, via a standard mileage rate (currently $0.535 per mile), or the actual expenses of repairs, gasoline, maintenance and repairs, even if it is used primarily for personal use (deductions will be prorated). As in all aspects of running a small business, maintaining impeccable records is an absolute must. For example, for deductible mileage, you need to maintain a record of the odometer reading at start and finish, date, place and purpose of the trip. Commuting miles if applicable are not deductible.
This is one of the trickier areas in terms of small business taxation, and subject to considerable scrutiny. The bottom line is that if an area of your home is used exclusively for your business, you may be eligible for the home office deduction. However, unlike other assets (the PC described earlier, half used for business, half personal) this designated space -- to qualify for the deduction -- cannot be of mixed-use.
Even if you are using a small space -- for example, what used to be a spare 12-foot by 12-foot bedroom -- exclusively for your business, you can get some tax benefits by writing it off. From there, you will have another decision: whether to use the Regular Method or Simplified Option.
Read more: Here are the 15 US cities where tech workers make (and save) the most money
This allows you to use the actual expenses associated with using the office, including mortgage interest, utilities, insurance, repairs and other costs, as well as depreciation. Essentially, all of the costs are prorated based on the square footage of the office relative to that of the entire home. In the case of items such as mortgage interest and real estate taxes, the amount associated with the rest of your home (all but the business space) are still reported on Schedule A (Itemized Deductions).
As the name suggests, calculations are much simpler in figuring the deduction; $5 per square foot up to maximum of 300 square feet or $1,500 deduction. There's no need to do any other calculations, unless you want to determine which method provides the higher deduction.
Here's another thing to be aware of that many small home-based business owners may not know: If you use the regular method, and take depreciation, the total amount will be recaptured when you sell the home, which will reduce your cost basis, and could result in capital gains, depending on the sales price relative to the cost basis. Generous exclusions of capital gains on the sale of a qualifying primary home ($250,000 single, $500,000 married) may provide adequate cover for this, but all situations are different.
You can expense the cost of transportation including airfare, car rental, parking and so on, plus hotel and lodging costs, and other associated expenses. If a trip is personal and business, be careful; you can only deduct what is attributable to business.
Just 50 percent of qualifying meal and entertainment costs are deductible. You can deduct the cost of business-related meals and entertainment with clients, as well as your meals while attending conferences, or on business-related trips. Maintain accurate, detailed records -- for meals with clients, keep dates, who attended and location. It is always wise to keep receipts.
Accurate record-keeping is a must in all aspects of running your business. Maintain a receipt file, and err on the side of caution when it comes to keeping or ditching receipts, or other records. In addition, it is wise to consider using accounting software (such as QuickBooks), or hiring someone to manage your books.
Finally, consider working with a tax professional who knows the ins and outs of small businesses and personal taxes. When you own a small business, your personal and business taxes are likely intertwined. While accurate tax preparation is extremely important, it is a backward-looking event. Tax planning, which should begin each year on Jan. 1, is forward-looking, and can help you make the most out of your personal and business tax situation.
Read more:


The tiny island of Jersey in the English Channel has reportedly become a tax haven for companies like Apple. 
Apple's tax practices are back in the spotlight.
A new report from the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists and its media partners says Apple sought out a new location to store its overseas cash to avoid paying higher taxes. The findings, part of a leak of documents dubbed the "Paradise Papers," say the company chose the tiny island of Jersey in the English Channel to store its over $250 billion in cash. The island charges no tax on companies' profits, ICIJ reported.
"Jersey was to play a significant role in Apple's newly configured Irish tax structure set up in late 2014," the publication said. "Under this arrangement, the MacBook-maker has continued to enjoy ultra-low tax rates on most of its profits and now holds much of its non-US earnings in a $252 billion mountain of cash offshore."
The Paradise Papers records come from the internal files of offshore law firm Appleby and corporate services provider Estera. German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung received the documents and shared them with ICIJ and its media partners, including The New York Times, Australia's ABC, the BBC in the United Kingdom, Le Monde in France and CBC in Canada. The partnership mirrors the treatment of 2015's Panama Papers leak. 
CNET is unable to verify whether the documents are real or have been altered.
Apple, in a lengthy statement in its online newsroom, refuted the Paradise Papers report. It said the changes it made to its corporate structure in 2015 were done to "preserve its tax payments to the United States, not to reduce its taxes anywhere else." It said it didn't move operations or investments from Ireland and that its "effective tax rate on foreign earnings" is 21 percent. 
"Apple believes every company has a responsibility to pay its taxes, and as the largest taxpayer in the world, Apple pays every dollar it owes in every country around the world," the company said in its nearly 1,200-word online response. "The changes we made did not reduce our tax payments in any country."
Apple is one of many US technology companies that have benefited from stashing cash overseas. That maneuver lets the companies avoid paying hefty taxes they could face by bringing the cash back to the US. In Apple's case, it held its cash in Ireland to pay a much smaller tax rate than the 35 percent level in the US. 
But Apple has come under fire both in the US and the European Union for its tax practices. CEO Tim Cook appeared before Congress in early 2013 to defend Apple's strategy of holding most of its cash in Ireland. 
Apple CEO Tim Cook in May 2013 testified before Congress about his company's tax practices.
The EU, meanwhile, believed Ireland wasn't collecting enough taxes and instead gave companies like Apple too big of a break on Ireland's already low 12.5 percent tax rate. The selective treatment allowed Apple to pay an effective corporate tax rate of 1 percent on European profits in 2003, according to the commission last year. In 2014, Apple paid a tax rate of 0.005 percent. As a result, the EU slapped Apple with a $14.5 billion tax bill in mid-2016. 
According to the documents leaked in the Paradise Papers, Apple started looking for a new place to store its cash in early 2014 as Ireland moved to change its corporate tax law. 
"The company appeared to be on the lookout for a country in which nothing at all would get in the way of business," said Süddeutsche Zeitung. "A place with no state interference, no politics and no public scrutiny."
The paper reported Apple, with the help of law firm Appleby, chose Jersey for its 0 percent corporate tax rate. Appleby listed two Apple subsidiaries as based in Jersey, starting in 2015. 
As of the end of September, Apple had $268.9 billion in cash, with the vast majority of that held overseas. Last week, Cook, in a TV interview, again called for a tax reform that would let him bring the cash back to the US without facing a huge tax bill. 
Update at 2:30 p.m. PT with Apple's comment. 
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Maresca in the corner office he's occupied since 2005. 
When Bob Maresca, the president of Bose since 2005, assumed the CEO position after company founder Amar Bose died in 2013, the company never sent out a press release to announce his promotion. And it isn't going to send one out to announce that Maresca is stepping down as CEO on Dec. 31, when he will hand the stewardship of the company to President Phil Hess, who will add CEO to his title.
"It's not really our way," a Bose PR rep once explained to me when I asked about the quiet executive shuffles.
But even if that remains the case, Maresca, 62, who has been at Bose for 31 years and will remain chairman of Bose's board and a trustee of the corporation, wanted the world to know about the transition.
"I don't want people to think I just disappeared," said Maresca, who sat down with CNET for a recent breakfast interview in Brooklyn, where he grew up. "For years and years our strategy was don't say anything, we're privately held, we don't have to disclose anything. And that was fine for many years. But people want to know the companies they're doing business with these days."
At Bose HQ in Framingham, Massachusetts, the news has been out of the bag for a while. Back in June, Maresca sent a long, personal memo to employees explaining his decision to retire at the end of the year. He'd been thinking about it for a couple of years and had put a succession plan in place.
Maresca never aspired to reach the "corner office," so when he became President and CEO, it exceeded every professional expectation he had, he told employees. And while it afforded him things "he never imagined," he noted that without his family, "that wouldn't matter."
"I want to devote more time and attention to my parents, and to the people who matter most to me," he wrote. "With God's grace, I now have that chance. I'm going to take it."
He also said he wants to volunteer more -- he's been involved with the Ron Burton Training Village in Hubbardston, Massachusetts, a training center for disadvantaged kids. "Giving back can sound cliche, but for me, there's nothing else quite like it," he wrote.
Phil Hess is a longtime Bose veteran who will take the CEO position as of Jan. 1, 2018.
One of his hobbies is using his engineering background to build devices for people with physical disabilities, "so they can do more and experience more." He plans to devote more time to that, too.
This may sound like the stuff of the Boy Scouts, but after having many conversations with Maresca over the years, it's not surprising to hear him frame his retirement in these terms -- and on his terms.
"The company is kind of a bunch of Boy Scouts," Maresca told me. "We want to do the right thing. We want to make good products for people and we're working hard on things like sleep and hearing and I feel really good about where the company is now. 
"Four years ago we were heavily entrenched in baby boomers and our whole operations were optimized to serve those baby boomers who had Lifestyle and Wave systems," he said, referring to the home theater and tabletop radio products for which -- with the possible exception of its noise-cancelling headphones -- the Bose brand was arguably most famous. "So we shifted our products more toward mill--" he stopped to catch himself. "No, not millennials, but people with mobile lifestyles who, yes, tend to be Gen Xers and millennials."
It was a difficult change to make, he said. The company was shifting to lower-margin, mass-market products and moving away from a direct-sales approach with print ads produced in-house and a big telemarketing staff to support the business model. The whole operation had to change to serve the new business and lots of jobs had to be eliminated.
"That was really painful," Maresca said. "Those folks in direct marketing were responsible for me being successful when I was in the noise-cancelling division."
With the restructuring now fully realized, Maresca felt it was a good time to turn over the reins to Hess, who Maresca hired back in 1996 to work on Bose's active-suspension vehicle system, which was a technical success but a commercial failure.
Hess went on to work with Maresca in Bose's noise-cancelling and home entertainment divisions. He's been running the latter division of the company since 2006.
"You know, the first consumer noise-cancelling headphone wasn't a noise-cancelling headphone that was sold to the general public," Maresca said. "It was one that American Airlines provided to first-class customers."
Maresca said that Hess negotiated the deal with American, which was skeptical about the upside of buying reusable $220 headphones (that had to be cleaned after each flight), after buying disposable headphones for 78 cents apiece. The noise-cancelling headphones turned out to be a big hit with passengers. 
"Phil is a very pragmatic guy," Maresca said. "We [Bose] used to be pretty arrogant and tell customers what they wanted and sometimes we didn't pay attention to competitors. Phil uses data. He looks at what our competitors are doing -- not to copy them but at least be aware of what's out there. And looks at customers and what their needs are. He's a very capable guy, a high integrity guy.
"Change is always tough for people," he said. "But the transition is going well. They know I'm not going anywhere too far away. And I wouldn't feel comfortable leaving if I didn't think the company was on a really good path."
Bose's new Beat: CNET's profile of Bob Maresca
Best wireless speakers: Our pick for the holidays


Hungry? Better get used to eating bugs, the outgoing leader of tech giant Cisco says.
"The primary source of protein you will be having within your life, definitely within 20 years and maybe within 15, will be insects," said John Chambers, speaking at Half Moon Bay at the Techonomy conference. They're "the cleanest form you can produce at least challenge to the environment."
In particular, he thinks eating crickets is the cat's pajamas. That view aligns well with companies like Aspire Food Group, which grows crickets for human consumption, and many cultures in Asia, Africa and Latin America. So perhaps you'd better embrace an insectivorous diet.
Former Cisco chief Jon Chambers, speaking at Techonomy, predicts insects will be our main protein source.
Chambers was for years chief executive of networking giant Cisco Systems, but now he's severing his last tie as the company's board chairman. So what makes him such an expert in food technology? In short, he plans to get more active with startups, and he's paying close attention to what's going on.
Growing crickets is a high-tech operation, he says, with robots able to help crickets grow 50 percent bigger in a third the time as usual, he said.
Chambers likes the prospects of Aspire Food Group, based in Austin, Texas, and says cricket food is ready now. He's also an investor in the food company and mentor to CEO Mohammed Ashour, a spokesman for Aspire confirmed. 
You won't necessarily know you're eating leggy little arthropods, though, since they can be ground up and added into other foods. He just had a seven-course dinner at a San Francisco restaurant, Saison, with crickets infused into biscuits, desserts and even a margarita.
Chambers likes startups, but he's worried about them in the United States. France and China are doing a better job encouraging them and ensuring they're not isolated to urban coastal pockets.
Aspire grows its crickets in bins. Automated robots handle the feeding.
"We've become the worst," Chambers said.
And startup hotbed Silicon Valley is too complacent, he added.
"When a region is out of touch with technology or business or social changes, you're at risk," Chambers said. "Boston's Route 128 used to be the high-tech center of the world," near MIT and Harvard and home to 2,000 or 3,000 high-tech companies. But the area missed the move to personal computers, software and the internet and lost its position of influence.
"Silicon Valley has the risk we could miss major market transitions," Chambers said.
Update, 1:55 p.m. PT: Adds more background on Chambers and Aspire.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
This is the look for all iPhone X aficionados. You didn't know?
You didn't think that Samsung was going to let the iPhone X party go on without at least trying to turn the music down, did you?
Periodically, Samsung has enjoyed cocking a snook at what it sees is Apple's lateness to almost every cellphone party going. And then there's all that painful Apple cult behavior. Once the Church of Appleology gets a grip on you, it's hard to break free.
On Sunday, therefore, the Korean phone maker released an ad that suggested the iPhone has been a retrograde product for the last 10 years.
Just, you know, to celebrate the arrival of the latest late phone, the X.
Here, we stroll through phone history, since the first iPhone launched.
It's all seen through the eyes of an Apple fanperson who just hasn't seen the light for so many years, even when it was shining right into his eyes.
The iPhone struggled with storage capabilities and the lack of a stylus and a big screen. For the longest time, it wasn't water-resistant.
Even the woman whom our hero adores had a Samsung Galaxy, while he still labored in his love for the iPhone.
Then Apple made it worse when the iPhone 7 came along. It forced him to use dongles -- those extra bits that you'll use, lose and spend even more money replacing.
His lover had wireless charging. The Apple fanperson had, well, cables and dongles.
Finally, in 2017, he understands that love means getting the same phone as the one who makes your heart beat faster and lives life dongle-free.
At last he's a happy man. He walks along the street, as his former cult members wait in line for the iPhone X.
One of those waiting has, oh, a haircut shaped like the iPhone X's infamous notch -- the unsightly black bar at the top of the screen.
Goodness, does he look silly.
Our man walks on. He's finally free from the Appleology cult. He has finally, the ad wants you to believe, grown up.
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Of course, Samsung has cherry-picked the moments that suit it best here. Still, many have felt that Apple waits to see how others implement new technology and then "perfects" it.
"Upgrade to Galaxy," says the ad. I fear, though, that relatively few these days switch from one ecosystem to another. That's certainly been the opinion of those phone salespeople I've recently talked to.
The reviews for iPhone X have largely been gushing. The lines to get one were long, at least in most places.
Which means that Samsung simply wants to make sure you won't forget it, as the hype springs eternal for its rival.
"The Church of Appleology is a con," Samsung pleads at the street corner.
How many, though, can really be saved?
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.


"The Inspection Chamber" puts you into the story.
The BBC has launched its first interactive audio story called "The Inspection Chamber."
Available now to Amazon Alexa users, "The Inspection Chamber" is a sci-fi comedy that requires the listener to use his or her voice to play one of the characters and influence the plot.
The story starts with a computer called Dave explaining that two scientists are about to inspect you in order to determine what kind of creature you are. The answers you provide will directly influence the story, which has multiple endings, so it may be worth going through this a couple of times if you want to hear every scenario.
George Wright, head of internet research and future services for the BBC, calls "The Inspection Chamber" an experimental first step. 
"They're not just a listener anymore," Wright said. "They have an active role in the story, playing the fourth character in a radio play which puts them in the heart of the action." 
The story was developed by BBC Research & Development in collaboration with production company Rosina Sound and will be coming to other platforms in the future.  


T-Mobile CEO John Legere. T-Mobile and Sprint have put the kibosh on their merger.
Sprint and T-Mobile have nixed their merger.
In a brief joint statement Saturday, the companies said they were "unable to find mutually agreeable terms."
The move wasn't a surprise. A Monday report by Japanese publication Nikkei said Sprint's parent company, Japan-based carrier SoftBank, planned to break off merger talks because of a dispute over ownership of the combined company.
The report said SoftBank and T-Mobile's parent company, German carrier Deutsche Telekom, had reached a broad agreement but hadn't settled on who would control the merged entity. Deutsche Telekom reportedly had insisted on a controlling stake, something SoftBank initially was open to but then reconsidered, Nikkei said. Deutsche Telekom declined to comment on that report, and SoftBank didn't respond to a request for comment.
On Sunday, Softbank said it plans to increase its ownership stake in Sprint.
""We are entering an era where billions of new connected devices and sensors will come online throughout the United States," Softbank CEO Masayoshi Son said in a statement. "Continuing to own a world class mobile network is central to our vision of ubiquitous connectivity."
A possible merger between T-Mobile and Sprint had been rumored for years. The two companies lag behind their bigger rivals, Verizon Wireless and AT&T, when it comes to the US market. Combining would give them an advantage, but critics fear having three players would reduce competition and hurt consumers.
Sprint and T-Mobile both said Saturday that they had no additional comment to make about the end of the merger talks.
On Sunday, Sprint announced a mobile networking agreement with broadband provider Altice USA
CNET's Shara Tibken contributed to this report.
Originally published Nov. 4 at 11:53 a.m. PT.Update Nov. 5 at 3:38 p.m. PT:  Added information on Softbank's investment in Sprint and on Sprint's deal with Altice.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.


Marco Pierre White Jr.
The Apple iPhone X has landed in UK stores and the crowds in London were impressive. Marco Pierre White Jr. was the first guy in line and he bought two of the things and promptly put one in his mouth.
Find out about the best UK pricing deals here.
It's not the only new phone around though as gaming company Razer took the wraps off its first Android phone. It's a 6-inch, high performance beast that is apparently designed for intense gaming sessions. Andy is confused by this.
Katie joins the show to talk about her awesome features on how science is infusing into the restaurant world. You can read about her experiences at top Barcelona restaurant Disfrutar now, and find out how her DNA profiling led to a better meal.
Finally, Andy talks about what happened when he travelled to Cornwall to watch the first test runs of the amazing Bloodhound supersonic land speed record car.
Having trouble with the audio player? Try this link.
Subscribe to the CNET UK podcast:
FeedBurner
SoundCloud
Stitcher
TuneIn


 Actor Jared Leto during a visit to the SiriusXM Studios in New York City in September.
Jared Leto is known to many as an Oscar-winning actor, but he's also a longtime tech investor who regularly cold calls perspective companies he's thinking of investing in.
Leto, who won a Best Supporting Actor Academy Award for his role in the 2013 movie "Dallas Buyers Club," most recently appeared in "Blade Runner 2049" and is the lead singer of the band, Thirty Seconds to Mars. He is also a familiar face in Silicon Valley, thanks to his investments in such startups as Spotify, Uber and Airbnb.
When it comes to investing, Leto looks for "companies that are changing the way that we behave, founders or CEOs that are incredibly passionate, smart geniuses," Leto said Wednesday during an onstage interview at the Wall Street Journal's D.Luxe fashion and technology conference.
Leto's interest in tech stems from his experience years ago with his band, which grew in popularity as Napster users shared its music on the now-defunct peer-to-peer network. He said his band was also one of the first itself online.
"When you're a musician, you have to become a digital expert or you die," Leto said.  
While Leto's portfolio includes a stable of successful startups, he's not without tales of missed opportunities. He said he met with Instagram four days before Facebook announced it was purchasing the photo-sharing site in 2012.
"They all had huge smiles on their faces," he said. "I thought, 'Wow, the culture here must be amazing.'"
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."


Sen. John McCain is co-sponsoring the Honest Ads Act.
Some US senators are looking to beef up laws around political ads that appear online, given apparent Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
It's largely believed the election was at least partially swayed by bogus political ads on Facebook, Twitter and Google. Democratic Sens. Mark Warner of Virginia and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota are teaming up with Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona on the Honest Ads Act to try to stop future interference.
According to a preview of the act seen by Axios, the bill would amend the current Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 to include paid internet and digital advertisements. 
"In 2016 Russians bought online political ads designed to influence our election and divide Americans," reads a statement from Klobuchar and Warner. "The content and purchaser(s) of those online advertisements are a mystery to the public because of outdated laws that have failed to keep up with evolving technology."
The Honest Ads Act  would create the same rules for online political ads that already cover ads sold on TV and radio. That means certain disclosures would be required, such as who paid for the ads.
It would require online platforms, such as Facebook, "to make reasonable efforts to ensure that foreign individuals and entities are not purchasing political advertisements in order to influence the American electorate." 
Facebook, Google and Twitter have acknowledged that more could have been done to prevent the placement of such ads on their sites. Facebook has said that more than $100,000 worth of ads were bought by what now appear to be Russian agents, while Twitter said it's discovered 201 accounts that may be tied to those same agents. Google also reportedly found that Russians paid for tens of thousands of dollars on ads on YouTube, Gmail and Google search.
Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said last week that the company intends to fully cooperate with Congress, as well as release information on how the ads were targeted to specific audiences.
"Things happened on our platform in this election that should not have happened," Sandberg said. "We know we have a responsibility to do anything we can to prevent that."
Other Facebook executives are also speaking up.
"We stand with lawmakers in their effort to achieve transparency in political advertising. We have already announced the steps Facebook will take on our own and we look forward to continuing the conversation with lawmakers as we work toward a legislative solution," Erin Egan, Facebook's vice president for US Public Policy, said in a statement to CNET. 
A Twitter spokeswoman said that "we look forward to engaging with Congress and the [Federal Election Commission] on these issues." 
McCain and Google did not respond to a request for comment.


Jenny Lee spoke about the fate of some companies with $1 billion valuations.
Dead unicorns.
That's what venture capitalist Jenny Lee, managing partner of GGV Capital, thinks is in store for some of the startups that have managed to hit a $1 billion valuation -- known as unicorns.
"2017 will see multiple unicorns die," Lee said during a panel at The Wall Street Journal's tech conference Wednesday.
Discussion with fellow panelists Sam Altman, president of startup accelerator Y Combinator and Bill Maris, who leads venture capital fund Section 32, turned toward the idea of a mellowing in Silicon Valley. Altman said most companies are worth less than their valuations -- although those high valuations could be worth it if another Facebook turns up. 
Already, new unicorns are becoming less frequent. Back in 2015, VC money was flowing more freely. In the third quarter of that year alone, 25 companies reached a $1 billion valuation.
Since then, caution's been the name of the game in Silicon Valley. A year later, in October 2016, VC funding hit a two-year low.  
The one upside: Dying unicorns could show tech isn't in a bubble, Altman said.
Lee thinks consolidation of services will be partly responsible for the disappearance of unicorns.
"The ones that can make it, I think will be magic," she said. 
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.


Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg
Facebook is under scrutiny from US Reps. Keith Ellison and John Conyers. 
The two Democrats wrote a letter to the social media company on Wednesday asking that it update its policies regarding hate speech. They also asked Facebook to clarify who buys ads on its site and to make all Facebook ads publicly available.
Ellison of Minnesota and Conyers of Michigan wrote that they are "concerned that Facebook allowed advertisers to target people who expressed interest in the topics of 'Jew-hater' and 'How to burn jews.'"
"Allowing for the spread of violent and hateful ideologies on Facebook, a network with nearly 2 billion unique users, poses a grave threat to not only our most marginalized and threatened communities, but to our entire civil society," they wrote.
Facebook defines hate speech as attacks on people based on their race, sexual orientation and/or other "protected characteristics." The company has said it grapples with tens of thousands of hateful posts per week and depends on its billions of users to report any posts that may violate its rules.
Ellison and Conyers said Facebook's current policies regarding hate speech are "troubling."
"While it earned revenue by letting advertisers target individuals who shared vile anti-Semitic statements, it was also banning Black women who spoke out against racism," they wrote.
The congressmen were referring to an incident when activist and writer Ijeoma Oluo's Facebook account was suspended after she posted a series of screenshots of threatening and racist messages she'd received. Facebook later reinstated her account. It appears that wasn't an isolated incident, according to TechCrunch. Several other black activists have reported similar occurrences.
In their letter, Ellison and Conyers sent Facebook a number of questions involving how it identifies hate speech and what it does to prevent its spread on its advertising platform. They also asked that Facebook detail any changes it recently made to its policies.
Facebook didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Regina Dugan will be stepping down from her role at Facebook to pursue a new endeavor.
After 18 months leading Facebook's research and development arm Building 8, Regina Dugan announced that she'll be stepping down early next year.
In a post on her Facebook page, Dugan wrote, "Today I am announcing that early next year, I will be leaving Facebook to focus on building and leading a new endeavor."
Dugan has a history of leading secretive technology focused initiatives. She was the head of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) that develops emerging technology for military applications. Just before joining Facebook, Dugan led Google's Advanced Technology and Projects (ATAP) team that worked on the Project Ara modular phone.
In Dugan's post, she quoted President John F. Kennedy's inaugural address.
Today I am announcing that early next year, I will be leaving Facebook to focus on building and leading a new endeavor....
Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Alphabet, Google's parent company, will be developing 3.3 million acres along the waterfront of Lake Ontario for its Sidewalk Labs initiative.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Tuesday in Toronto that Google's parent company, Alphabet, will develop a portion of the waterfront along Lake Ontario. The development will house Sidewalk Labs, a unit of Alphabet focused on innovation in urban environments.
"This project offers unprecedented opportunities for Canadian innovators and will create thousands of good, middle class jobs," Trudeau said during the announcement alongside Toronto Mayor John Tory and Alphabet Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt.
According to The Globe and Mail, Google's Canadian headquarters will be relocating to the 12-acre site.
Schmidt said that "we are making a bold bet that innovation technology and forward-thinking urban design can make fundamental improvements in city life."
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has announced that Google Headquarters will move to the Toronto Waterfront #WaterfrontToronto @CP24 pic.twitter.com/Rkkh5npjYS
Google did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Poor Alex. The young TechFeed journalist at the heart of "South of Market: The Musical v2" wants to write serious stories that hold companies accountable for ignoring diversity and neglecting product safety hazards. But listicles like "Top 10 Colleges for Aspiring Founders to Drop Out Of" and "13 Ways Alexa Was a Basic Bitch" always get more traffic than "boring" articles on equal pay.  
"Count me out of page views," the idealistic Alex declares early in the 90-minute show. "Going rogue!" 
Parodies of the tech world aren't new, of course -- see HBO's "Silicon Valley" as the best-known example. But this one's done through song and tap dance. As the cast croons about venture capitalists and billion-dollar valuations, you half expect Erlich Bachman to pop up with jazz hands.
The show, which runs through Oct. 22 at San Francisco's Marines Memorial Theater, romps through a world of nap pods, treadmill desks, "robust self-driving data sets" and launch parties with robot strippers but no actual product to show off yet. The play follows Alex (Alex Akin stands out in the role) as she investigates hot startup ai.ai, which represents "the dawning of the great singularity, the great singularity" (sung, amusingly, to the tune of "Aquarius" from the musical "Hair"). Along the way, she may have found love, or at least a nice bearded guy to hang out with.  
James Seifert (left) and Will Letzler play ai.ai executives in "South of Market: The Musical v2."
The show is now in its second year, with all new topical material. Anyone with internet access will recognize tropes like incessant selfie-taking and hashtagging. Tech professionals will also appreciate the jargon, acronyms and send-ups of oversize Silicon Valley egos.
"Believe in yourself," the cast sings in the finale, "but not too much."  
The show does hint at weightier themes, like some companies paying lip service, but not much more, to equal pay. Then there's the song "All the Feelings," which runs through the pat Facebook reactions available in a complex world of political turmoil and natural disasters: "like, love, haha, wow, sad, angry," the chorus goes.
"Part of the premise of that song is that these six reactions … are supposed to be sufficient to interact with the news we're seeing about the world today," says Tareq Abuissa, who wrote the music and lyrics. "There's irony there that they can't actually capture what we're observing."
A number of the show's team members have backgrounds in tech or media. Samantha O'Keefe, co-producer with Pat Blute, is head of startup programs at Google Cloud, and Wall Street Journal reporter Rolfe Winkler, who covers startups, plays the clicks-obsessed millennial TechFeed editor who represents everything Alex despises. But the team also sought input beyond its ranks.   
"We went outside of our own team, running lines or scenes by individuals in the community and getting their feedback, both for their reaction and also for authenticity," O'Keefe says.
South of Market, to those who don't hang around San Francisco, refers to an area of the city known for its abundance of startups. I'm writing this from SoMA right now, though not from a sensory-deprivation-desk tank like some of those lucky TechFeed reporters have.
If you're not anywhere near SoMA and can't catch the show, the team is having it filmed and says it will be available for streaming.
Now, back to my story on 10 ways the internet uses cat videos to steal your identity. (You won't believe No. 7!)   
Technically Literate: Original works of short fiction with unique perspectives on tech, exclusively on CNET.
Star Wars at 40: A look at the cultural phenomenon that's been thrilling fans since the first film in 1977.


Jeffrey Katzenberg believes there were two Harvey Weinsteins at work in Hollywood.
Hollywood executive Jeffrey Katzenberg was scheduled to discuss "The New New Hollywood" at the WSJD tech conference Monday evening. But under the cloud of Harvey Weinstein's sexual harassment allegations, Katzenberg ended up focusing much of his talk on a scourge that goes back to the early days of Hollywood: the casting couch.
Weinstein was fired from The Weinstein Company, the company he co-founded, just days after an Oct. 5 New York Times story first brought to light sexual harassment allegations involving dozens of women. While offering an insider's perspective of the Hollywood producer at the center of the scandal, Katzenberg noted that sexual harassment and abuse is larger than just  Hollywood, referencing recent scandals involving Fox News CEO Roger  Ailes and Fox TV personality Bill O'Reilly, Silicon Valley and even President Donald Trump.
"The casting couch has been in Hollywood from the beginning," Katzenberg said. "The complicity around the acceptance of it and silence  about it is the crime. Harvey Weinstein, make no mistake about it, he  is a monster.
"The problem is there's a pack of wolves. He's not a lone actor in this."
Katzenberg, who was chairman of Walt Disney Studios when Disney acquired Weinstein's Miramax Film in 1993, suggested during the discussion, as he did in a recent letter to Weinstein, that there were two Harveys at work in Hollywood. While being clear he wasn't defending Weinstein, Katzenberg said he never witnessed the abusive behavior that has become legend in recent days, leading him to do some "soul searching" in recent days.  
"I've had hundreds of meetings with Harvey Weinstein, and literally not a single time was Harvey abusive to someone in my presence," Katzenberg said. "Somehow this behavior was masked by him.
"The tragic part is these women masked it from us too because they were intimidated," he said.
But Katzenberg is optimistic that good things will come from this bad situation.
"The silver lining out of this is that we can't tolerate this," he said. "I think you will see in these coming weeks, real action, we can't go on this way."
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


Arianna Huffington discusses Softbank's investment in Uber at the WSJD tech conference in Laguna Beach, California.
SoftBank's billion-dollar investment in Uber is expected to be finalized "very likely within the next week," according to board member Arianna Huffington.
Huffington made that prediction during an onstage interview Monday at the WSJD tech conference in Laguna Beach, California. SoftBank plans to acquire a 14 percent to 20 percent stake in the world's most valuable privately-held tech startup, Huffington said Monday. The deal would include acquisition of shares through a secondary offering from existing shareholders, Huffington said.
"We are waiting at the moment on what is going to transpire with the price," Huffington said Monday. "It's all about the price."
Uber's board voted earlier this month on an overhaul of its company structure that would allow the Japanese conglomerate to make an investment in the ride-hailing startup reportedly in the $1 billion range.
Uber's board approved reforms that include eliminating its super-voting structure, in which early shareholders had 10 times the voting power, to a one vote per share model, according to a source familiar with the vote. The board also voted to expand the number of board members to 17, adding six seats to dilute recent additions made by former CEO Travis Kalanick.
The investment also comes as Uber looks to go public in the next two years.
"This is not a marriage, this is a business," Huffington said.
Uber didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


Judge issues final judgment in Apple's legal battle with patent holder VirnetX that began in 2010.
Apple's years-long legal battle with VirnetX may finally be coming to a close.
A US District Court judge in Texas has entered a final judgment in the patent case, which accused Apple of infringing patents related to its iMessage and FaceTime features. The judgment, filed on Sept. 29, means Apple is on the hook for $439.7 million in damages, patent holding and security software company VirnetX said in a statement Monday.
The damages total is nearly $140 million higher than the $302.4 million Apple was ordered to pay VirtnetX a year ago. Willful infringement added another $41 million, while attorneys' fees and other costs tacked on another $96 million, VirtnetX said.
The judgment appears to be the end of a trio of lawsuits filed since 2010 against Apple by VirnetX, a company that makes most of its money from licensing patented technology that creates virtual private networks over the internet. VirnetX alleged Apple infringed patents covering secure computer and mobile communications.
A verdict in February 2016 ordered Apple to pay VirnetX $625.6 million in damages after two lawsuits were combined. But in August, a federal judge voided the verdict, saying that combining two lawsuits into a single trial confused the jurors and was unfair to Apple. He ruled that both cases needed to be tried separately.
Apple said it plans to appeal the decision.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


The Supreme Court will review the case United States v. Microsoft.
The US Supreme Court will review a high-stakes case over whether law enforcement can demand data stored overseas from a US-based email provider, according to a court order released Monday.
The case, United States v. Microsoft Corp., pits federal and state officials against tech firms, which have supported Redmond in the litigation in the name of digital privacy. It began in 2013, when a New York judge issued a search warrant seeking records and emails from a Microsoft account in a case connected with a criminal investigation. After concluding that the emails investigators sought were located on one of its servers in Ireland, Microsoft refused to hand over the information, arguing that a US judge has no authority to hand out warrants for search and seizure of property or data abroad.
The judge later rejected Microsoft's request to stop the warrant and a court ruled in 2014 that Microsoft must hand over the emails. Microsoft again refused, saying that the US doesn't have the right to access email communications from people who are not living in the country. An appeals court eventually ruled that Microsoft didn't have to supply the data to law enforcement.
The Trump administration maintains that ruling has becoming a major impediment in criminal investigations. The Justice Department said Google, Verizon and Yahoo have stopped complying with search warrants for emails and other data stored overseas. 
 "The decision is causing immediate, grave, and ongoing harm to public safety, national security, and the enforcement of our laws," Deputy Solicitor General Jeffrey Wall wrote in a June court filing (PDF). "Under this opinion, hundreds if not thousands of investigations of crimes -- ranging from terrorism, to child pornography, to fraud -- are being or will be hampered by the government's inability to obtain electronic evidence."
Microsoft has argued that Congress needs to pass legislation that would update current data laws, which were enacted more than 30 years ago. 
"The continued reliance on a law passed in 1986 will neither keep people safe nor protect people's rights," Microsoft President and Chief Legal Officer Brad Smith said in a blog post Monday. "If US law enforcement can obtain the emails of foreigners stored outside the United States, what's to stop the government of another country from getting your emails even though they are located in the United States?"
Microsoft declined to comment beyond Smith's post.
The court is expected to hear arguments early next year and rule by June.  
First published Oct. 16, 9:02 a.m. PT.Update, 10:29 a.m. PT: Adds more background information and context on the case.  
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Facebook is reportedly looking for employees who have national security clearance.
Facebook wants to hire employees who have national security clearances to help prevent foreign entities from impacting future American elections, Bloomberg reported Monday. 
The social network wants to use these people, who can access information classified by the US government, "to search more proactively for questionable social media campaigns ahead of elections," according to Bloomberg. 
Facebook officials declined to comment on the report.
Fake news disseminated online in the lead-up to Donald Trump's presidential victory last year has become a hot topic that has entangled tech giants including Facebook, Twitter and Google. Numerous reports say fake news shared on social networks helped Trump, and was connected to the Russian government.


The virtual network operator is also offering a free trial for new customers that comes with 20GB.
A plucky virtual network operator from Singapore is hoping to change things in the region.
Having successfully disrupted the local scene by offering consumers bigger data caps compared to traditional carriers, Circles.Life is hoping to shake things up in Indonesia and Hong Kong next.
Unlike traditional carriers, Circles.Life doesn't have infrastructure like cell towers. Similar to other virtual network operators in the US, such as Cricket Wireless, Circles.Life leases its network from a traditional carrier to do business.
The company said today it plans to launch in the region's biggest market of Indonesia before the end of the year. Hong Kong is also in the works, though a timeline has not yet been revealed.
The announcement comes off the launch of a new service called Circles Switch in Singapore that offers potential customers a free trial of its network. It lets users sign up for a 20GB a month plan, a move similar to Netflix's free one month trial, though Circles.Life lasts till 31 Dec 2017.
Users who subscribe to the service will automatically port their current number to the new plan after the trial ends, though they can cancel before this happens with no penalty. In Singapore, users typically sign two-year contracts when buying a new phone, such as the Samsung Galaxy Note 8 or the iPhone 8 Plus, and Circles.Life is hoping to snag new customers who are about to recontract.
Circles.Life is currently aiming for a three to five percent share of the local Singapore market, and has stated that it is ahead of schedule by two years. Competition is expected to get heated once the fourth carrier, Australian-based TPG Telecom, enters the fray in 2018.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition.


Movies Anywhere brings together some heavy hitters to put your movies in order.
There's a new streaming movie service called Movies Anywhere, and it almost sounds too good to true. It doesn't only put most of your online movies in one place, it puts them everyplace.
Those are the basics. But let's dive into the details, including some caveats:
Now. It went live on Oct. 12.
Movies Anywhere has some major studios on board. Warner Bros., Disney, Universal, Sony and Fox are all on the service. For now, Paramount, Lionsgate and MGM/UA are the biggest holdouts -- that means no cross-platform Godfather, Indiana Jones, Katniss Everdeen or old-school James Bond, for now. You may not see some independent movies supported, either. That said, Movies Anywhere is designed as an open platform, so any studio not currently on board can theoretically join later, once licensing details are ironed out.
This is what you see when you click the "Buy" button on Movies Anywhere.
No. Movies Anywhere is essentially a front-end for your film library. If you see a film you want to purchase on the Movies Anywhere service, clicking the buy option will bring up a pop-up showing you which vendors have the video.
However, pricing information is not displayed nor does the pop-up mention if a 4K version is available at any of the services. You'll have to click through to see which is the best for you.
Yes -- once you link your Movies Anywhere account to two of the four compatible services. The free movies are: "Ghostbusters" (2016), The Lego Movies, "Jason Bourne," "Ice Age," and "Big Hero 6." You can't pick substitutes if you already own these. Full details can be found here. 
We have a quick guide to getting started on Movies Anywhere, too.
Nope, although some TV movies and miniseries like the 1990 TV version of "It" are included in Movies Anywhere.
Roku is just one of the many options for Movies Anywhere.
Movies Anywhere has apps available for iPhone ($699.00 at Apple), iPad ($299.95 at Amazon.com), Android, Apple TV ($179.00 at Apple), Roku, Amazon Fire ($54.48 at Walmart) tablets, Amazon Fire TV, Chromecast and Android TV devices. It also works on all major web browsers on Windows PCs and Macs. (See the full list of supported devices.) There are no dedicated apps for any Xbox or PlayStation consoles at the current time. But that doesn't mean the game consoles are left out in the cold -- see below.
 Basically, no. Movies Anywhere is only available to residents of the US who are 13 and older. However, once registered from a US-based IP address, users should be able to then access the features internationally.
Yes. You can download to a maximum of eight devices and a maximum of 16 devices over a rolling 12-month period.
Yes in certain circumstances: If you download a file and keep that file on a device offline for 90 days, the download will expire. Additionally, if you deregister a device, downloads will expire. If you connect that device to the internet, downloads should not expire.
Nope, you cannot watch 3D, 4K or HDR content at launch using the Movies Anywhere service. But, again, the loophole here is that many of the participating streaming services do support 4K and HDR. In its terms of service, Movies Anywhere says, "eligible UHD Digital Copy codes will flow to your connected Digital Retailers, some of which support UHD." For example, if you've connected Vudu and Google Play, a 4K film you own from Vudu could appear in your Google Play library in 4K quality or vice versa.
On Vudu's site, you'll see if a film is both Movies Anywhere and UltraViolet compatible.
It basically isn't! It's the same basic back-end technology of that service that's been around since 2014. Now, though, it's expanded to include movies from non-Disney studios.
It's similar to that multi-vendor streaming service, too, but arguably easier to use. And because Vudu was already in the UltraViolet family, any past or future disc-based movies you have with UltraViolet digital codes will be folded into Movies Anywhere (so long as it's one of the participating studios). Vudu's site will show you if a title works with Movies Anywhere and/or UltraViolet. It doesn't look like other vendors mark their movies like this. Just be sure to link your UltraViolet account with Vudu if you haven't already. 
So far, Movies Anywhere has largely been a largely smooth experience for most users on CNET's staff. That's probably a testament to the fact that the underlying infrastructure from Disney Movies Anywhere has already been tried and tested. That said, at least one person has noted two issues: Five eligible movies flowed into each supported service except Google Play, and one movie -- "Argo" -- originally purchased via Amazon hasn't propagated to the other services, even though it's a Warner movie. 
Have a question not answered above? Let us know in the comments.
How to get started with Movies Anywhere: Claim your five free movies and link your accounts. Here's how.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
OK, Google. OK. I give in.
It had been bothering me for a while, but in that way that I couldn't quite articulate.
Something simply felt not right.
I was spurred on, though, by Google's SVP of hardware Rick Osterloh.
In an interview with Recode's Kara Swisher and the Verge's Lauren Goode published on Friday, he explained that the company believes no hardware product is worth developing unless it has AI at its heart. He believes that Google is different from Apple because "we come from opposite heritages."
That's true, a grizzled mind might think. Apple was always about the human condition. Google was always about the machine condition.
Still, it's clear that Google's AI assistant is better than Apple's Siri. But there continued to be an aspect that gnawed at me like a discombobulated hungry penguin.
And then I thought back to two weeks ago.
It was during Google's event, in which it displayed its new Pixel 2 phones, its family-friendly surveillance camera and its new Home devices.
In the 37th minute, the company presented a video showing how its assistant was now very clever at understanding kids' voices.
And there it was.
A bunch of kids saying "OK Google." Over and over and over again.
I'd never stopped to think about it sufficiently. This was, indeed, the ultimate corporate chant.
You might think this merely the future. However, Apple's Siri, Microsoft's Cortana, Amazon's Alexa and even Samsung's Bixby have their own names and their own personalities.
They may or may not be so clever, but at least you feel as if you're talking to a someone.
With Google, you're talking to the Moloch. 
Kids will -- if the company has its way -- grow up to utter a company name, as if they have some sort of personal relationship with one of the biggest corporations in the world.
Please imagine how it would feel if you had grown up saying "OK, Exxon." You might just have been sent for corrective treatment.
You might insist that the word "Google" is different. After all, we talk about Googling something, as if it's the proper word for online search.
You might also point out that many little kids already believe iPad is one of their best friends. 
Yet what sort of world will it be when kids are uttering the word "Google" as much as they're uttering "Mom," "Dad," and "I want"?
It was a deliberate decision by Google not to name its assistant. The idea, as Jonathan Jarvis, a former creative director on Google's Labs team, told Business Insider last year was that Google's assistant should make you feel like Wonder Person.
"It was more like a superpower that you had and a tool that you used. If you create this personified assistant, that feels like a different relationship," he said.
Yes, it does. A human relationship. Not one in which a human is uttering a company's name to distraction.
I got a slightly different explanation from Google this weekend.
"As we've said from the start, we're calling this your Google Assistant because we fundamentally think of it as an extension and evolution of Google itself," a spokeswoman told me.
Ah, so Google the corporation really does want to be in every part of your life? It really does want kids to chant the company name all the time?
"Google has been providing assistance to users for many years across many products," the spokeswoman told me. "But thanks to the progress in natural language processing, machine learning and other core capabilities, we're at a point where we believe we can create an assistant that's helpful, smart and made just for you."
But it seems to involve you invoking the company name every minute, as if you wanted to constantly express your gratitude.
The -- intended or not -- consequence of Google's AI strategy is that humans will be uttering the word "Google" without cessation.
Do you want your kids to be Google borgs? Or will we have to send the porgs in to save them?
From gurgle, gurgle, gurgle to Google, Google, Google. That's progress.


Microsoft's new meeting spaces promote "creativity, focus and happiness."
Microsoft employees may soon be working on Word in the woods.
The company's blog on Thursday revealed three tree house meeting spaces created by builder Pete Nelson from the TV show "Treehouse Masters." 
The meeting spaces include two enclosed areas along with an elevated area named the Crow's Nest, which the company said will let employees sign onto work from the great outdoors.
Why the fuss to create these spots? According to a YouTube video showing off the workspace, it's to embrace a philosophy of nature improving "creativity, focus and happiness."
Yet the tree houses do omit AV systems and climate control -- so any PowerPoint presentations will have to stick to more traditional offices on the Redmond, Washington-based campus.
Tech companies seem to be vying with each for the wildest new office concepts for their employees, with Microsoft's tree house just the latest. Apple's "spaceship campus" opened this year; Amazon has proposed a biosphere concept for its offices; and Facebook plans to expand its existing campus in Menlo Park, California to include a "village" of 1,500 apartments.


Woz wants to train you for tech.
Steve Wozniak wants you to work in tech, and he's going to help you do it.
The Apple co-founder is launching Woz U, a digital institute aimed at helping folks not only figure out what type of tech job they might be best at, but train for it.
"People often are afraid to choose a technology-based career because they think they can't do it. I know they can, and I want to show them how," Wozniak said in a statement Friday.
Woz U starts off as online programs, but there are plans to build campuses in 30 cities around the world. Those cities will be announced within the next 60 days, Shelly Murphy, corporate relations for Woz U told CNET.
Programs offered will also range from teaching companies how to recruit, train or retrain employees to supporting school districts with science, technology, engineering, art and mathematics programs.


Uber appeal to keep its license to operate in London.
Uber today officially launched its bid to remain in London three weeks after the British capital's transport regulator refused to renew the company's license to operate citing "public safety and security implications".
The appeal, which Uber announced immediately after Transport for London made its decision on Sept. 22, allows the ride-sharing company to continue operating in the city during that process. An Uber spokeswoman said that today's filing in the Westminster Magistrates' Court is more a formal notification that the appeal is underway and that the company may never appear in court if a settlement is reached.
"While we have today filed our appeal so that Londoners can continue using our app, we hope to continue having constructive discussions with Transport for London" Uber said in a statement. "As our new CEO has said, we are determined to make things right." 
On Oct. 3, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi visited London to meet with TfL officials after which he pledged his willingness to work with the city in a tweet. TfL also released a statement after the meeting characterizing the talks as "constructive" and said that more discussion would continue in the coming weeks. Uber has been in London since 2012.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you -- and the world around you -- smarter.
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Can you feel the inspiration?
I used to believe that Apple owned pretentiousness. 
It could describe products in ways that made you feel that its creators really believe themselves artists, rather than mundane craftspeople. Or the even lower-lifes known as nerds.
Who could ever forget Cupertino's chief design officer Jony Ive describing the iPhone 5C as "beautifully, unapologetically plastic"?
Yet here comes Microsoft with an utterly glorious collection of pretentious dialogue to describe its creation of a color called Aqua for its Surface Pro accessories.
Yes, it's exactly the sort of aquamarine-ish, turquoise-ish color you'd expect. But not as far as lead Surface designer Quan Jasinski is concerned.
As he told the Windows blog: "As designers at Microsoft, we love to use our hands and hearts when creating new products and experiences."
Now that doesn't sound like Bill Gates's Microsoft, does it? They just used their fists and their claws.
Jasinski, though, continued: "We are consistently inspired by everything around us varying from  consumer behavior, cultures merging, nature, architecture, art, science,  fashion, sports, and the list goes on."
Wait, he created the aquamarine-ish color Aqua with sports as his inspiration? No, no. It was, um, something else.
"Aqua is a soft and approachable color. When creating Aqua we drew  inspiration from our natural surroundings which helped develop its  friendly attributes," he said.
There was more.
"This color works beautifully with our materials, from the richness of  Alcantara through to the depth and sheen of anodization on our pen. It  complements the rest of the existing palette while adding a hint of  lightness," Jasinski crooned.
(Alcantara is "a unique and innovative material used in high-end luxury products, sourced only from Italy." It's the cloth-like material on the Surface keyboard.)
My eyes began to water in sheer admiration that Redmond had managed to reach these heights of depth and sheen in its word art.
Why, even in the introduction to Jasinski's words, the Windows blog offered: "Beyond new magical experiences from Windows, Office, and other app  partners that help people create in new ways with our innovative  hardware, we want to celebrate the intersection of technology and  design."
When did you ever imagine that you'd hear the word "magical" in even the same zip code as the words "Windows" and "Office"?
And wait, isn't "magical" a property of Apple? Aren't all Cupertino's products supposed to be magical and revolutionary? Apple even inserted the notion of magic into its tagline for iPhone 7: "Practically magic."
If Microsoft can create this much mind-altering gobbledegook to introduce a new color, please imagine what it might do when it creates a new computer.
"Even something as minor as taking a different road to work can change the way you view the world," Jasinski told the Windows blog.
I think quite a few people in Redmond have been taking a different road to work lately.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 


Amazon Studios chief Roy Price, seen with Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos (left) at Amazon's Emmy Celebration in 2016, has been suspended amid a sexual harassment allegation.
 Amazon has suspended Roy Price, the head of its movie and TV show division, amid allegations he made unwanted sexual advances toward a female producer.
Price, the head of Amazon Studios, was accused of lewdly propositioning Isa Dick Hackett, a producer on "The Man in the High Castle," according to an interview published Thursday by The Hollywood Reporter. Hackett, daughter of the late science fiction writer and "High Castle" author Philip K. Dick, said in the interview that Price repeatedly made unwanted sexual advances toward her after a dinner two years ago during Comic-Con in San Diego. Price declined The Hollywood Reporter's request for comment.
"Roy Price is on a leave of absence effective immediately," an Amazon spokesman said in a statement after the interview's publication, adding that "we are reviewing our options for the projects we have with The Weinstein Co."
The suspension came a week after an Oct. 5 New York Times story first brought to light sexual harassment allegations against Hollywood movie producer Harvey Weinstein. Weinstein denies all allegations of nonconsensual sex but has said he's getting counseling.
Earlier Thursday, actress Rose McGowan reported that her Twitter account had been suspended after she spent a few days tweeting about the allegations against Weinstein, whom she has accused of raping her. After her account came back online Thursday, she sent five tweets directed at Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, including one in which she said she'd told the "head of your studio" about the incident.
"@jeffbezos I told the head of your studio that HW raped me. Over & over I said it. He said it hadn't been proven. I said I was the proof," McGowan wrote in a tweet.
1) @jeffbezos I told the head of your studio that HW raped me. Over & over I said it. He said it hadn’t been proven. I said I was the proof.
Twitter tweeted about the suspension, explaining that McGowan's account had been temporarily locked because one of her tweets included a private phone number, which violated the company's terms of service.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg met with the Congressional Black Caucus on Thursday. 
Facebook has been criticized for the lack of diversity on its board. Now, the social network says it's going to do something about it.
Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's high-profile COO, told members of the Congressional Black Caucus Thursday that the company plans to add an African-American director to its board.
Facebook didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. A spokesman for Rep. Robin Kelly, a Democrat from Illinois and a member of the CBC, confirmed the remarks by Sandberg, but declined to provide further comment. 
Sandberg reportedly told the lawmakers the company is in talks with a candidate, but declined to disclose a name or timeline for the appointment, according to a report from USA Today.
Right now, none of Facebook's eight board members are people of color.
Sandberg is in Washington, D.C., trying to contain the fallout from Facebook's ad controversy, in which Russian agents bought more than $100,000 ads in an attempt to interfere with the 2016 US election.
The trip comes as Facebook prepares to testify on Nov. 1 at Congressional hearings about foreign actors using social media to try to meddle with the election. Twitter and Google are also expected to testify. Silicon Valley companies have been in damage-control mode in response to the ad controversy, trying to fend off the looming threat of regulation from Washington, D.C.
Aside from discussions about Facebook's board, the CBC also talked to Sandberg about more transparency around its ads.
"I think today's meeting was productive and sets us on a path to get more answers and eventually, change. Facebook and other digital companies cannot become a Trojan Horse for foreign efforts to influence our democratic elections," Rep. Kelly said in a statement. "All companies – whether it's a tech giant or mom-and-pop shop – need to follow the law, protect customer data and not be complicit in foreign threats to our security."
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


Google CEO Sundar Pichai announced the new Grow with Google program.
Google says it doesn't want to leave anyone behind as technology changes the way people live and work. 
The search giant on Thursday introduced $1 billion in new initiatives aimed at training and educating workers to help them find jobs and grow their businesses. Google will spend the money over the next five years to fund grants to nonprofits globally as part of efforts to prepare people for the "changing nature of work."
CEO Sundar Pichai unveiled the programs during an event in Pittsburgh, joined by  Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf and Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto.
"We're always asking how we can make sure the opportunities created by new technology are available for everyone, in any city, in any state," Pichai said. "In asking that, we recognize that there are large gaps in opportunity across the U.S. These are tough gaps."
The initiative comes as tech giants in Silicon Valley face growing scrutiny over the implications of technology and automation on jobs and the workforce.
One of the initiatives, called Grow with Google, aims specifically to help US workers by giving them access to Google products and in-person training sessions. The company will host a tour of sessions, kicking off in Indianapolis, Indiana, on Nov 10 and 11.
Google also announced a partnership with Goodwill, including a $10 million grant. The partnership will have 1,000 Google workers train 1.2 million people in digital skills over the next three years. The company also said its employees will volunteer 1 million hours to organizations helping to train and educate people for work. 
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


Rose McGowan is at least temporarily off Twitter.  
Twitter on Thursday gave actress Rose McGowan a timeout amid an uproar over alleged sexual harassment and assault in Hollywood.
In an Instagram post early in the day, McGowan said, "Twitter has suspended me. There are powerful forces at work."
The actress, best known for her role on the supernatural drama series "Charmed," had spent the last few days tweeting about allegations against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein. She also   posted a screenshot of a message from Twitter stating that her account would have some of its features limited for violating Twitter's rules. 
But a person familiar with the matter told CNET early Thursday that McGowan's Twitter account was "temporarily locked," not suspended.
Later on Thursday, Twitter tweeted about the matter,   explaining that McGowan's account had been locked because one  of  her tweets included a private phone number, which violated the   company's terms of service.
The tweet has been removed and   McGowan's account was unlocked. Twitter stated it would be clearer   about its policies in the future. A representative for McGowan said the actress was not available for comment.
McGowan is one of a number of actresses who went public in an Oct. 5 New York Times story that first brought to light sexual harassment allegations against Weinstein. A New Yorker story this week has also alleged sexual assault. Weinstein denies all allegations of nonconsensual sex but has said he's getting counseling. 
Twitter has frequently come under fire for not effectively dealing with harassment on its social network. The company says it holds all individuals to the same rules, but some Twitter users have voiced concerns that US President Donald Trump gets a free pass. Twitter said in July that it has clamped down on 10 times as many abusive tweeters as it had a year earlier, but Thursday's incident suggested that the company's approach may not be clear to everyone.
The locking of McGowan's account came soon after the actress tweeted foul language to actor Ben Affleck and accused him of lying about his knowledge of Weinstein's sexual misconduct.
Account locking, or limiting, is a feature that's part of Twitter's efforts to reduce abusive behavior on the social media platform. The company outlined its account-limiting process in a blog post in March, which described a "pattern of abusive behavior" as a violation of its rules.
While locked accounts are still accessible to other users, suspended accounts are typically not, even though they still exist on Twitter servers. If you try to view a suspended profile, you'll see a notice explaining that the account has been suspended.
On Thursday afternoon, McGowan sent five tweets directed at Amazon CEO and founder Jeff Bezos, including one is which she said she'd told the "head of your studio" that Weinstein had sexually assaulted her. She also called on Bezos "to stop funding rapists, alleged pedos and sexual harassers," adding that "I love @amazon but there is rot in Hollywood." McGowan did not name the studio head, but Roy Price was the chief of Amazon Studios until Thursday.
"Roy Price is on leave of absence effective immediately," an Amazon spokesperson said. "We are reviewing our options for the projects we have with The Weinstein Co." 
Originally published Oct. 12 at 6:03 a.m. PT.Updated at 9:15 a.m. PT: Added Twitter's response and noted that McGowan's account had been unlocked.Updated at 1:54 p.m. PT: Added information about McGowan's tweets at Amazon's Jeff Bezos.Updated Oct. 13 at 2:45 a.m. PT: Added statement from Amazon spokesperson.
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Sheryl Sandberg says Facebook will do more to prevent election interference.
Facebook has been asked a lot of questions about its role in hosting Russian-backed ads during the 2016 US presidential election.
On Thursday, Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg took a crack at answering some of them during a public interview with news site Axios.
"Things happened on our platform in this election that should not have happened," she said. "We know we have a responsibility to do anything we can to prevent that."
That means fully cooperating with Congress and supporting the eventual release of the ads, as well as information on how they were targeted to specific audiences on Facebook.
This is the first public interview for Sandberg, or any senior Facebook executive, since the controversy over Russian ads reached a fever pitch last month. In September, CEO Mark Zuckerberg acknowledged that more than $100,000 worth of ads were bought by what now appear to be Russian agents who were attempting to interfere in the 2016 US election. Earlier this month, the social network handed over 3,000 such ads to Congress.
When Zuckerberg made that announcement, he also vowed Facebook would commit itself to protecting "election integrity." He promised more transparency around political ads and said Facebook would add 250 people across all its teams working on safety and security.
During Sandberg's interview with Axios, she reiterated steps Facebook is taking to minimize the chance that this sort of interference will happen again, including heavily investing in machine learning, hiring more staff to increase oversight related to advertising, and increasing transparency, as well as working with third party fact-checkers and offering people warnings when they're about to share an article that's been flagged as having false information.
"There have always been bad actors out there trying to undermine our values," she said. "We can make it a lot harder for people to harm us."
Sandberg's Axios interview is part of her trip to Washington, DC, this week to meet with members of Congress as Facebook deals with the ad controversy. Sandberg's trip comes as Facebook prepares to testify at congressional hearings on Nov. 1 on the use of social media by foreigners to interfere with the election. Both Twitter and Google are also expected to testify.
Silicon Valley companies have been trying to do damage control in response to the controversy, in hopes of heading off stricter regulations from Washington. When asked if Facebook was a media company and should be regulated as such, Sandberg said Facebook is a tech company at heart, but does bear some responsibility for what happens in the platform.
She also said efforts among other platforms need to be coordinated, noting that Facebook isn't the only site where these types of problems popped up.
Last month, Twitter said it discovered 201 accounts that may be tied to the same Russian accounts that purchased the Facebook ads. Google, too, is in the midst of an internal investigation and reportedly found that Russians paid for tens of thousands of dollars on ads on YouTube, Gmail and Google search.
Sandberg also showed how maintaining free expression on the platform can be tricky. Targeting ads toward specific audiences, for example, can be helpful for businesses with very specific products but goes awry when used for discriminatory purposes. Sandberg noted that Facebook would not have taken down US Rep. Marsha Blackburn's ad mentioning "baby body parts" in reference to abortion, as Twitter initially did this week. Blackburn is a Republican from Tennessee. 
"When you cut off speech for one person, you cut off speech for everyone," Sandberg said. 
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Airbnb partners with major landlord to allow for short-term rentals in its buildings.
Most landlords don't allow tenants to sublet their apartments on Airbnb. That's because it typically comes with increased risk and no profit for them. But a major landlord in Florida is trying something new: working with Airbnb.
Airbnb said Thursday that it's partnering with Newgard Development Group to allow for short-term rentals in a 324-unit building in Kissimmee, Florida. Tenants who live in this building can freely put their apartments on Airbnb for up to 180 days per year. The catch is that they have to share the income with Newgard.
This partnership "eliminates barriers by encouraging home sharing and creating solutions that work for everyone," Newgard CEO Harvey Hernandez said in a statement.  
In just under a decade, Airbnb has gone from a website for couch surfers to having a massive online presence. It lists millions of homes for rent in almost every country on earth. That growth, however, has come with challenges.
The company has waged extended battles with landlords, regulators and housing advocates in major cities around the world, including San Francisco, New York, Paris, Berlin and Barcelona. So, over the past year, the company has been working to make nice with lawmakers while also shift its business model.
Airbnb has gone from being solely a home-rental service to a semi-travel agency, in which travelers can book excursions and make restaurant reservations through its site. It's also acquired smaller companies like the high-end vacation rental service Luxury Retreats. The new partnership with Newgard appears to be yet another way Airbnb can broaden its focus.
"This partnership shows how landlords, developers and Airbnb can work together to create value for everyone and better serve tenants," Jaja Jackson, Airbnb's director of global multifamily housing partnerships, said in a statement.  "Together, we're making it easier for more hosts to share their space."
Airbnb and Newgard are branding their partnership as "Niido." Under this approach, they will give Newgard residents tools for renting out their apartments on Airbnb, such as a "Niido" app that helps with guest check-in, cleaning and linen service.
The companies said this is just the beginning. They plan to continue working together to design new "Niido" apartments and buildings built specifically for subletting to short-term renters and tourists. The designs will have features like keyless entry and shared common spaces.
"As the cost of living increases, apartment renters are under intense financial pressure," Hernandez said. "Niido's unique multifamily home-sharing model provides a powerful solution to this ongoing problem by delivering extra income for tenants while creating enhanced experiences for their guests." 
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
Life, disrupted: In Europe, millions of refugees are still searching for a safe place to settle. Tech should be part of the solution. But is it?



Watch out, Netflix and Hulu: There's a new streaming service in town. And it could have everything movie and TV fans want.
Launching Thursday, Movies Anywhere is a new all-in-one service that will bring some of the world's biggest movie studios and digital streaming platforms together into the one platform, meaning US viewers can watch content bought from multiple services through the one app.
The app will work on iOS and Android devices, Amazon Fire devices, Apple TV, Android TV, Chromecast and Roku devices, as well as in browsers. Movies Anywhere said more platforms and retailers are still to come.
We're yet to go hands-on with Movies Anywhere -- stay tuned to CNET to get our first impressions Thursday -- but already there's an impressive list of Hollywood studios on board with the new service. 
That means Movies Anywhere will have films from Sony Pictures Entertainment, The Walt Disney Studios (including titles from Disney, Pixar, Marvel Studios and Lucasfilm), Twentieth Century Fox Film, Universal Pictures and Warner Bros. Entertainment.
But you're out of luck if you want to watch "House of Cards" or "The Handmaid's Tale" from launch. Netflix and Hulu are the most notable names left off the list of digital services compatible with Movies Anywhere.  
Consider the battle lines drawn.
The major Hollywood powerhouses have come out to support the new service, but there's one company at the front of the pack.
Former Walt Disney Studios senior vice president, Karin Gilford, has been charged with leading the project as Movies Anywhere's general manager. According to a statement, Gilford will lead an independent "cross-functional team of product, technology, marketing and other professionals" as part of the project.
Gilford described Movies Anywhere as "a virtual one-stop movie-watching shop" and a massive step forward for consumers wanting to access digital movies and TV.
"Consumers never have to remember where they purchased a film or which device they can watch it on, because all of their eligible movies will be centralized within their Movies Anywhere library and available across platforms through the Movies Anywhere app and website and also available at their connected digital retailers."
The likes of Netflix and Hulu have long held pride of place in the digital media landscape, but there are signs that the world order is changing. In August, the Walt Disney Company announced it would be pulling its titles from Netflix by 2018 (including flagship Marvel and Star Wars titles) to start its own streaming service the following year.
And there's the rub. While Netflix and Hulu have reduced their reliance on outside studios by creating their own Originals in-house -- like "Stranger Things" or "The Handmaid's Tale" -- there's no doubt big names like Disney, Sony and Universal still produce a great deal of the titles viewers want to watch.
That's where services like Movies Anywhere could rise to the top. Your average movie buff doesn't want to know about the machinations of studios and streaming services -- they just want the latest blockbusters in one place. By securing the buy-in of major studios as well as digital retailers, Movies Anywhere could soon be the one-stop-shop for viewers, giving them what they want, where and when they want it.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 


Pinterest helped unwittingly share political posts from Russian operatives, the company acknowledges.
Pinterest, the social media site popular for sharing recipes, photos of clothes and inspirational quotes, also helped share Russia-linked political posts during the 2016 campaign.
The visual bookmarking site became a repository for political posts created by Russians operatives seeking to influence public opinion and promote divisiveness in the US, the company acknowledged Wednesday. The Russian operatives didn't post directly to Pinterest, but their messages found their way to the site after Pinterest users saved messages on Facebook and Twitter to their boards.
"We believe the fake Facebook content was so sophisticated that it tricked real Americans into saving it to Pinterest," a Pinterest spokesperson said in a statement. "We've removed the content brought to our attention and continue to investigate."  
Pinterest joins a growing list of Silicon Valley companies that were unwittingly tapped to assist in Moscow's disinformation campaign, including Facebook, Google and Twitter. The abundance of fake news on the internet in the lead-up to President Donald Trump's victory last year has become a hot-button issue, with many suggesting fake news shared on the social networks helped Trump win.
Facebook said last month that it identified about 500 "inauthentic accounts" that bought $100,000 worth of ads that targeted highly politicized social issues such as immigration, guns, and LGBT rights. Facebook has sent records of the ads to government investigators looking into Russia's alleged meddling in last year's presidential election.
Facebook isn't alone. Twitter told congressional investigators last month that it had discovered 201 accounts that appear to be tied to the same Russian accounts that purchased ads on Facebook. Russian operatives also spent tens of thousands of dollars on ads on YouTube, Gmail and Google search, Google revealed earlier this month.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


The Justice Department has some questions about Uber's business practices.
Uber is learning that chickens come home to roost.
The ride-hailing company is now facing five Justice Department inquiries, according to Bloomberg. Three were identified over the last few months, but two were just revealed on Wednesday.
One of the new investigations is looking into whether Uber violated price-transparency laws after using a tool that charges passengers different prices for the same ride, Bloomberg said. The other is examining the company's role in allegedly using stolen self-driving car technology from Waymo (the autonomous car unit of Google's parent company Alphabet).
This means Uber's new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi has his work cut out for him. He was hired in August after a litany of scandals forced company co-founder and former CEO Travis Kalanick to resign in June.
Uber -- with its prior no-apologies attitude and notoriously aggressive former CEO -- upended the taxi industry and became one of the biggest ride-hailing services on the planet, since its founding in 2009. Although this approach helped the company grow, it also courted controversy and lawsuits.
Uber has been sued by everyone from its drivers to passengers to employees to high-level investors over the past couple of years. That's not to mention the massive lawsuit brought by Waymo over allegedly stolen self-driving car technology -- the same issue the Justice Department is now looking into.
Other Justice Department investigations include two separate probes into software Uber developed. One is looking at Uber's "Greyball" tool, which the company used to evade police in cities where the service wasn't yet legal. The other is examining software called "Hell" that Uber used to thwart its competitor Lyft.
The Justice Department also reportedly opened a criminal bribery probe into whether an Uber executive in Asia illegally obtained a copy of a rape victim's medical report, according to Bloomberg. The victim was raped by an Uber driver in India in 2014.
Both Uber and the Justice Department declined to comment.
Uber is a 'cancer,' say defiant London cab drivers: London's black-cab drivers vow to battle Uber to preserve a livelihood they say is under threat
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you -- and the world around you -- smarter.


More trouble for Qualcomm, this time in Taiwan.
Taiwan is the latest country to slap an antitrust fine on Qualcomm, the world's largest provider of chips for phones and other mobile devices.
The island nation's Fair Trade Commission said Wednesday that it had fined the US-based company $773 million, Bloomberg reported.
Qualcomm has a monopoly on patents for certain crucial mobile phone technologies, and it violated local laws by refusing to license that tech to companies that wouldn't play by its pricing rules, Taiwan's FTC said, according to Bloomberg.
Qualcomm said it disagrees with the decision and plans to file an appeal.
The Taiwanese move is the latest in a string of actions worldwide against Qualcomm. Last month, the chipmaker filed a second appeal in South Korea over an order from that country's FTC that resulted in an $850 million fine. In Europe, Qualcomm faces the specter of a $669,000-a-day penalty after losing a July appeal. And in the US, the company failed in its June bid to have a federal judge toss out an FTC antitrust lawsuit against it. The company also suffered a nearly $1 billion antitrust fine in China, back in 2015.
First published Oct. 11, 11:46 a.m. PT.Update, 2:05 p.m.: Adds that Qualcomm plans to appeal.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
As the launch of iPhone X gets closer, it's fair to ask: "Is anyone really excited?"
At the time of its unveiling, I talked to real people who mostly felt very meh about Apple's so-called "smartphone of the future."
Yet along comes investment bank Piper Jaffray's latest "Taking Stock with Teens" survey and insists that US teens are more excited about iPhone than ever.
Piper Jaffray surveyed 6,100 US teens across 44 states.
In this twice-a-year survey of teens' mercurial minds, 78 percent said they owned an iPhone. And 82 percent declared that their next phone will be an iPhone. This is the highest iPhone-loving number the survey has ever seen.
Which might make some wonder: "What on earth are the competitors doing?" Or, perhaps: "Are there that many hand-me-down iPhones floating about the world?"
Still, these are the fall results gleaned from talking to 6,100 teens, with an average age of 16, from various income groups across 44 states.
It's tempting to imagine that teens have turned conservative, as the winds of crazy currently buffering the world make them hunker down with a few trusted choices.
Yet the survey points to very famous brands that have fallen out of favor. Facebook, for example, saw a significant decline, especially among younger teens. Nike suffered too. Facebook, however, might be cheered that Instagram enjoyed a lift.
And here's another expression of teen tech-centric love. 49 percent of all teens said their favorite retail website was Amazon. Are we all desperate to pay less for more -- well, more convenience, at least?
Also, 17 percent of these teens said they planned to buy an Apple Watch in the next months. That's up from 13 percent in the spring survey. 
Where do they get the money from? Please don't tell me it's their ever-indulgent parents.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Mark Zuckerberg, at Facebook's F8 developer conference earlier this year.
"At every step along the way, the future is built by people who believe it can be better."
That's the message that Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, brought to the company's fourth annual Oculus Connect virtual reality developer conference Wednesday. As in previous years, Zuckerberg took the stage to discuss the promise of what virtual reality can be and to show off some goodies.
The company has tallied 100 million downloads of apps that work with Oculus, and it continues to work on a less-bulky version of its headsets, he said.
Zuckerberg also set a goal: Get 1 billion people into VR. 
He didn't say by when, but showed off a new lower-cost device, called Oculus Go, to help make it happen. 
Unlike the flagship Oculus Rift device, the Oculus Go doesn't need to be tethered to a bulky PC or have a phone snapped into it. Instead, it's self-contained, and will cost $199 (less than half the $499 price tag of the Rift) and be available by "early next year," Zuckerberg said.
Hugo Barra, Facebook's head of Oculus, said he believes more people will use VR when they have a standalone device like Oculus Go. It was designed to be more comfortable, with stretchy straps to hold the device on your head and with a more breathable fabric. It also has speakers built in, so you don't have to wear headphones.
"We believe Oculus Go will be the most accessible VR experience," Barra said.
The company also said it's working on a new version of its Rift headset. A prototype first shown last year, called "Santa Cruz," will be made available to developers next year, Barra said. In the meantime, Oculus said it'll cut the Rift's price to $399, marking a third price cut in the year and a half since the device launched.
While these new features and products are key to Facebook's efforts, Zuckerberg also delved into the promise of what virtual reality can do. Most people won't have a chance to go into space, he said, but they can in VR. He also talked about doctors using VR ahead of heart surgery and teams holding meetings in virtual rooms. 
"We're legitimately excited about the future and we're committed to making it a reality," he said.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


Katniss Everdeen, the heroine of "The Hunger Games," isn't the only woman willing to make a sacrifice.  
Forget men being from Mars and women from Venus. When it comes to diversity in the workplace, men and women may not even be in the same universe.
That's one way to read a joint study out this week from LeanIn.org, the organization founded by Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, and McKinsey & Co. In what may be the largest study of its kind, the "Women in the Workplace 2017" report concludes that some well-worn assumptions are stunningly wrong. Thought women don't have the guts to ask for raises and promotions? Wrong. Believe women are more likely to be promoted over men by "social justice" fanatics? Wrong again. Assume the US workplace is a meritocracy? Let's not even dignify that one.
In fact, after talking to 70,000 workers at 222 companies that employ more than 12 million people, the landmark study found that women are "underrepresented at every level in corporate America, despite earning more college degrees than men for 30 years."
Let's allow a few of the findings to speak for themselves:
• About 37 percent of women believe their gender played a role in missing out on a raise, a promotion or a chance to get ahead, compared with 8 percent of men.  
"The gap begins with entry-level jobs and widens the higher you climb," Sandberg wrote Tuesday in an op-ed piece summarizing the report for The Wall Street Journal. "This isn't because of attrition; women and men stay with their companies at roughly the same rate."
• Women ask for promotions at the same rate as men but are promoted less often. The study found that "at the first critical step up to manager, women are 18 percent less likely to be promoted than their male peers." Looked at another way: If women were promoted at the same rate as their male colleagues, then the number of women in SVP and C-suite jobs "would more than double."
That's sobering.
• More men than women think their company is doing "what it takes to improve gender diversity."
• Nearly 50 percent of men think women are "well represented in leadership," even at companies where only one in 10 senior leaders is a woman. Sandberg calls it a sign that "we're too comfortable with the status quo."
The report has lots of numbers highlighting the very real differences in how men and women view their treatment in the workplace. (Note: The numbers are even worse when it comes to racial equality.) Yes, companies should strive for fairness and equality in the workplace. But the norm is also bad for business: The numbers prove that companies with more-diverse workforces and more-diverse boards are more productive and deliver higher profit than their rivals. 
That's from a McKinsey study of 366 companies from 2015, by the way.
The male-dominated tech industry knows it must do better -- and not just in workplace equality. Over the past several months, tech executives and venture capitalists have witnessed a wave of sexual harassment scandals, starting with Uber. According to The New York Times, this has led to "unintended consequences" that may set women back even more: Some VCs are avoiding solo meetings with women entrepreneurs and job candidates, even to the point of shunning critical networking meetings.
"A big chill came across Silicon Valley in the wake of all these stories, and people are hyper-aware and scared of behaving wrongly," one VC who asked to remain anonymous told the newspaper. "They're drawing all kinds of parameters."
What a mess. And it comes down to the fact that the leaders at many of these companies -- who say they're focused on addressing the #womenintech problem -- simply can't see what they can't see.
What do you do when that happens? You bring in people who can see it for you.  
And so, in the immortal words of Katniss Everdeen, "I volunteer as tribute."  
I'm willing to give up my long-time career as a tech and business journalist to serve on the boards of a few tech companies that are flummoxed by the lack of progress in their equality efforts.
After more than two decades covering Silicon Valley and the tech industry for MacWeek, Wired, Upside, Bloomberg, Forbes and now CNET, I know a few things about how the industry operates, even though I, like many board members at tech companies and some VCs, don't have a STEM degree.  
And while I may not have "binders full of women," I do know many talented, ambitious, smart women whom I can recommend for leadership jobs across a variety of tech companies, from service providers to product makers to social network builders. Oh, and let's not forget, I bring perspective that should prove valuable to companies where qualified women are just too hard to find. 
Yes, leaving journalism would be a sacrifice, given that serving as a director for tech companies no doubt requires very long hours for dismal pay. I think I can manage. And I'm certainly willing to step up for my fellow #womenintech and help those brave, forward-thinking companies that truly want to solve this diversity problem, if only to stop having to read reports about how dismal the situation is.
Let the revolution begin. 
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Sheryl Sandberg's LeanIn.org and McKinsey & Co. conducted a massive study of women in the workplace. 
A lot of men out there just don't get it.
That's one of the big takeaways from the "Women in the Workplace 2017" report out Tuesday from management-consulting firm McKinsey & Co.  The report was conducted in partnership with LeanIn.org, a nonprofit founded by Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg that focuses on women's empowerment.
The report surveyed more than 70,000 employees from 222 companies and found that many men feel pretty good about how diversity efforts are going at their companies.
In fact, 50 percent of men surveyed think that if women make up 10 percent of their company's senior leadership, that's good enough. Fifty-five percent of men think that disrespectful behavior toward women is often or always addressed quickly, compared with 34 percent of women.
Meanwhile, the numbers of women further up the corporate ladder continued to thin out -- women make up about 18 percent of C-Suite roles and women of color only 3 percent.
"These gender gaps persist even though companies' commitment to gender diversity is at an all-time high. What's going wrong?" Sandberg wrote in a Wall Street Journal op-ed Tuesday discussing the report.
For tech in particular, the push to diversify has never been harder. Companies like Facebook, Google, Apple and others have unveiled plans to attract more women and minorities to their ranks through everything from outreach programs and partnerships to re-evaluations of hiring practices and pay scales. In 2015, Intel pledged $300 million toward diversity efforts.
And yet, year after year, percentages of women and minorities in tech workforces increase only slightly, progress that former US CTO Megan Smith called "abysmal" at last week's Grace Hopper Celebration, a conference dedicated to the advancement of women in computing.
Sandberg said the effort seems to have stalled out because of what she called blind spots.
"It's hard to solve a problem we don't fully see or understand -- and when it comes to gender in the workplace, too often we miss the scope and scale of the issue," she said.
LeanIn.org did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The report touches on other ways being a woman in the workplace can be fraught. Many women do ask for promotions, for example, but there's a catch. Compared with men who negotiate and women who don't, women trying for a raise are more likely to be labeled bossy, intimidating and aggressive.
LeanIn.org is combating this stigma with Ban Bossy, a campaign that criticizes the use of the word "bossy" to describe assertive women and girls.   A video for the campaign, which includes big names such as entertainers Beyoncé and Jennifer Garner and former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice highlights how ambition in women and girls is often cast as something negative. After all, being called bossy isn't a compliment.
And if you're a woman of color, the challenges are compounded. Women of color are more underrepresented, get promoted at a slower rate and get less support from managers. Black women in particular are the least likely to have contact with anyone on a senior level.
But most of all, the report showed a disconnect between how companies and employees view diversity efforts. Ninety percent of companies say they prioritize gender diversity, while only 42 percent of employees think that's the case.
"We won't unlock the full potential of the workplace until we see how far from equality we really are," Sandberg said.
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet. 


Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg is headed to Washington, DC, this week.
Facebook is bringing out some of its VIPs to deal with intense scrutiny in Washington, DC.
The social network is sending Sheryl Sandberg, its high-profile chief operating officer, to the nation's capital this week as the company deals with the controversy over ads bought by Russian agents meant to spread misinformation during the 2016 US election.
Sandberg's trip comes as Facebook prepares to testify on Nov. 1 at congressional hearings about foreign actors using social media to try to interfere with the election. Twitter and Google are also expected to testify.
One of Sandberg's stops will be a meeting with the Congressional Black Caucus. The group last week sent a letter to Facebook and Twitter asking for more transparency around foreign threats and false news. "Members of Color, in particular, are additionally impacted by this issue, as the communities we represent are disproportionately strong consumers of social media, and additionally vulnerable to these attacks and misinformation," members of the CBC wrote.
Recode earlier Tuesday reported the news. CNET independently confirmed the meeting. Facebook didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Another of Sandberg's stops will be a public interview with Mike Allen, executive editor of the website Axios.
The move comes as Silicon Valley giants try to fend off the looming threat of regulation from lawmakers. Along with Facebook, both Twitter and Google have investigated potential Russian meddling on their platforms.
Facebook earlier this month handed over 3,000 ads from Russian-linked accounts to Congress. Twitter said last month it discovered 201 accounts that appear to be tied to the same Russian accounts that purchased ads on Facebook. Google is conducting its own internal investigation and reportedly found that Russians spent tens of thousands of dollars on ads on YouTube, Gmail and Google search.
CNET's Terry Collins contributed to this report. 
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Are you going to buy a virtual reality headset?
Seriously. Are you?
I'm not the only one who wants to know. The VR industry is having an awkward moment. Though headset makers have spent years and billions of dollars promising world-changing technology, relatively few of us have actually lined up to buy them.
That sales problem is likely to be among the things discussed at the fourth annual conference for one of the darlings of VR, Oculus, which Facebook bought three years ago for as much as $3 billion. More than 2,500 app and game makers are expected to attend its annual developers conference, called Oculus Connect, starting Wednesday in San Jose, California.
Facebook's Oculus VR division promises discussions on how health care, movies and video games are adapting to this still nascent technology. One panel will explore how the disability community can benefit from VR gear and presentations.
The talk underscores the potential of VR. Yes, the high-end headsets are bulky and need special setup and long thick cables tethered to big PCs. They're expensive too, with Oculus' Rift costing $499 and requiring a $500 PC before you can get set up. But after you put on those VR goggles -- basically strapping a screen inches from your eyes -- your brain can be tricked into believing you've been transported to whatever computer-generated world you want.
You could be in the middle of a massive space battle or dive to the bottom of a shipwreck and come face to face with a blue whale. Or you could watch cartoon bunnies hack your brain. Maybe you want to meet people from around the world and chat while hanging out on a idyllic beach.
For some people, VR is more than that. Rae O'Neil, a 34-year-old IT worker from Nova Scotia, had always been fascinated with VR. But it was her grandfather's reaction to the Rift that made its promise clear.
In his 80s and disabled after losing a leg a few years prior, he put on the headset and began using an app called Blue Marble, which lets you float in space, looking at planets while music plays in the background. 
"He felt like he was actually in space," she recalled. It brought a tear to her grandfather's eye.
Those kind of otherworldly experiences helped convince Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to buy Oculus after trying a prototype of the headset back in 2014.
"Virtual reality was once the dream of science fiction," Zuckerberg wrote on his social network after buying the startup. Back then, he said, VR had the potential to remake everything from education to medicine to communications, just like the phone and computer had done in their day. "The future is coming."
It still is.
President Barack Obama, in 2016, watches a VR film captured during his trip to Yosemite National Park.
Oculus' flagship Rift headset hit store shelves in March 2016, with so much hype leading up to the launch that even then-President Barack Obama gave it a whirl as part of a virtual tour of the White House.
But a lot of people still haven't bought in.
Facebook's been tight-lipped about shipments, but several people familiar with Oculus said that fewer than a quarter million Rift headsets were sold during their first year on the market. Facebook declined to comment on Rift sales.
But the company signaled its frustration with the anemic interest when it pulled Rift demo stations from hundreds of Best Buy stores around the country in February.
The PlayStation VR is backed by one of the biggest game companies in the world.
Then, the social media giant cut the headset's price. Twice. It was being sold for $400, a third less than its original price, for six weeks over the summer before jumping back up to $499.
The company's chief competitors, Sony and HTC, followed suit. The PlayStation VR dropped to $400 from $500, and the Vive dropped to $599 from $799 all in the past three months.
The price cuts were enough to juice demand for Oculus, two people familiar with the company said. Though current total tallies couldn't be learned, at least a million units are estimated to have been sold.
Sony, by comparison, says it sold more than a million units of the PlayStation VR as of June, just eight months after going on sale. HTC didn't respond to a request for sales data.
The question of demand is causing some VR game and app developers to worry about their future.
"It's not happy sunshine and rainbows," said James Iliff, co-founder and creative chief at VR game maker Survios, which made early hit shooters Zombies on the Holodeck and Raw Data, one of the first VR games to rack up $1 million in sales. "We are very much in a trough of disillusionment."
That "trough of disillusionment" comes from the "Hype Cycle," a theory popularized by research firm Gartner and whose stages have become mantra in Silicon Valley. The goal of the Hype Cycle is to chart the expectations and emotions around products as they're introduced, innovated upon and eventually adopted -- or not.
In the beginning, there's the "Innovation Trigger," when new tech is introduced. Then hype and excitement begin to build until the new thing eventually hits the "Peak of Inflated Expectations." That's followed by the crash into the "Trough of Disillusionment." (Gartner says VR is nearly out of that stage and headed into the "Slope of Enlightenment," just before mass adoption.)
Iliff and his co-founders worked on early VR research before Oculus was founded. He felt expectations were getting too high, particularly in the media, and expected a backlash of sorts. So, he's prepared.
This month, for example, Survios made Raw Data more widely available for Oculus, Vive and PlayStation VR. Survios is also looking beyond VR for customers, redesigning Raw Data to work in arcades as well.
"The game industry is hard, it is a tough industry, and that is not going away," he said. "That's the same for VR."
Paul Bettner, CEO of Playful, says his latest Lucky's Tale game is designed to be "VR friendly," but he's not wedded to the tech.
On a Friday in September, Paul Bettner was giving a speech in San Francisco at VRDC, another VR developer conference. The title of his talk was "How to Be a Successful VR Game Studio."
As CEO of Playful, one of the first high-profile VR game makers and co-founder of the company behind the hit social game Words With Friends, Bettner wanted to share his perspective.
One of the most important slides in his presentation: "Don't be a VR game studio."
"The point I was trying to make in that talk was to pursue a high-level vision," Bettner said. While VR is a medium to make great games, companies shouldn't be focused just on making great games for VR. "It's a means to an end, not the end," he said.
He's taken his own advice. When the Rift went on sale last year, it included Playful's Super Mario 64-like adventure game,  Lucky's Tale, bundled for free. This year, he's partnered with Microsoft to publish the sequel, Super Lucky's Tale, to work with the company's Xbox video game console when it's released in November.
Bettner said he hasn't given up on VR. He's just not wedded to it.
"It's intoxicatingly amazing how magical the technology is, but we can't fall in love with that," he said. "We have to fall in love with our mission to bring the experience to our players."
Augmented reality tech, that blends computer images and the real world, has many developers excited.
The most exciting changes in the VR industry in the past year haven't come from the game industry but from phone makers.
Over the summer, Apple and Google announced new technologies called ARKit and ARCore, respectively, that are designed to help iPhones and iPads or any device powered by Google's Android software marry computer-generated images with the real world.
A $2.99 app, Star Guide AR, highlights stars and constellations in the sky once you point your phone at them. Another, Ikea Place, previews furniture in your home with a tap. Walk around your living room and you can see the furniture you placed while looking through the screen on your phone. So far, both are available only for the iPhone.
"The excitement is catching, and one could easily imagine 'There's an AR app for that' could become a common phrase," wrote CNET's Sean Hollister and Scott Stein back in August.
App developers I spoke with say they're excited by augmented reality and believe it may help spur people to eventually buy VR systems as well. That's because AR, which was used so effectively in last year's Pokemon Go craze, may get people comfortable with more immersive apps, which is part of the essence of VR.
"We're finally at the point where I think the technology has caught up to make good user experiences," said Scott Montgomerie, head of Scope AR, which makes training simulators. For businesses, overlaying information on the real world can help train employees on multimillion-dollar equipment like oil rigs and rock drills.
That's part of why Microsoft's focusing on both AR and VR. In an October update to its Windows 10 software for PCs, the company is partnering with device makers like Lenovo, Dell, HP, Acer and Samsung to create headsets based on its designs. They'll sell for as little as $300 each when they begin hitting store shelves Oct. 17.
"There's a bit of a waiting game," said Brian Blau, an analyst at Gartner who once worked for a VR company. "Without a vibrant running ecosystem, it's hard for parts of it to do their best."
That's also why developers will trek to Oculus Connect this week, hoping whatever Facebook shows off will spark excitement.
That new stuff, though, will need to clear a pretty high bar to persuade people like Sam Le to buy one. The 31-year-old wedding photographer from Austin, Texas, is a hardcore gamer. He's bought each video game console at launch, be it an Xbox, PlayStation or Nintendo device, and he owns a powerful PC to run his favorite games. He spends hours a each day playing alone and with friends.
After trying HTC's headset last year at the SXSW music and entertainment festival, Le decided to take the plunge and buy a PlayStation VR. He returned it a month later and ate the $80 he spent on the games.
The experiences were exciting but not enough to justify the price. "It's a question of which is worthy of my investment?" he said. None of his gaming friends has bought a VR system either.
Le said he's willing to buy the headsets at some point, but they need to be worth it. "I've waited this long," he said. "I can wait another year."
That's not the answer Oculus and its developers want to hear.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.
Update, 5:24 p.m.: Corrects story to make consistent the current $499 price of the Oculus Rift. An earlier version of this story listed two different prices, one of which was outdated.


With technology increasingly intertwined with all aspects of business, CNET@Work can help you -- prosumers to small businesses with fewer than five employees -- get started.
Teams looking to streamline how they communicate should consider the Echo Show.
This Amazon device, which is basically an Echo speaker with a built-in Fire tablet, offers both video calling and voice calling, as well as access to Alexa and Alexa skills, all of which you can use to communicate with members of your team -- whether you want to check in with them or hold a conference call. It also works with the Alexa app, so even if you're away from your desk, you can accept a call from your boss or co-workers and essentially stay connected.
Sure, there are several enterprise-level chat apps available that also provide video calling for teams, but Amazon delivers some advantages, thanks to its AI assistant Alexa, with its growing library of skills. 
Here's how you can draw on the power of Amazon's latest Alexa device to transform your office.
Read also: Amazon Echo Show: A smart speaker that shows up the competition
Imagine if everyone in your team had an Echo Show sitting on his or her work desk. They'd all be able to keep in touch, even if they walked away from their desks for a minute. You see, the Echo Show supports Alexa-to-Alexa calling and messaging in the US. It's a free feature that provides calling and messaging between supported Echo devices and the Alexa app on compatible iOS (9.0 or higher) and Android (5.0 or higher) phones. And it doesn't use mobile plan minutes.
Once your team members have set up their Echo Show devices, ask them to share their contact information with each other and to download the Amazon Alexa app from the Apple App Store or Google Play Store. From there, in the Alexa app, they'll need to select the Conversations icon from the navigation bar at the bottom of the app and follow the onscreen prompts. They must confirm their names, enable access to their contact lists and verify their phone numbers through SMS. Amazon will use their address books to find people they know who use the Alexa app or supported Echo devices, so it should, at this point, find every person in your work team.
Read also: Amazon Alexa calling: How to set it up and use it on your Echo
To place a call via your Echo Show, all you have to do is say, "Alexa, call [name of contact]." The contact will need to be listed under the Contact screen of the Alexa app, and you have to say the name exactly the way it appears in the app so that Alexa can understand your request. When you call a team member, it will ring through to his or her Alexa app and Echo Show device at the same time -- and your contact can answer on either. 
To toggle the video aspect after the call has started, say, "Video [off / on]", or you can touch the on/off video button on your Echo Show's screen. So, with this setup, you can quickly place a video or voice call to a team member to, for instance, talk about an ongoing work project, rather than having to stop what you're doing and walk across the entire length of the office.
When you receive a call from a team member, your Echo Show will sound a soft alarm and glow green. You can answer or ignore any call from your Echo Show by saying, "Answer" or, "Ignore." Alternatively, you can tap the answer or ignore button from the Alexa app on your smartphone. To end your call, say, "Hang up" or you can select the end button from the Alexa app. 
The beauty of this feature is that you can have one-to-one video or voice calls with any team member from your desk, and it won't take up any workspace on your laptop. You can continue doing what you're doing, and the Echo Show sitting next to you will handle all your calls. Also, if you should leave your desk at any moment, your calls will automatically be routed through to your smartphone, allowing you to stay remotely connected.
Sending a message is a lot easier than having a full-on phone call with a team member. Better yet, sending a voice message is quicker than typing one out. Amazon's system allows team members to fire off voice messages, eliminating the need to manually type out a complex thought or place a call to explain something. 
To send a voice message via an Echo Show, simply say, "Alexa, send [name of contact] a message," and then say your message. Team members can access their voice messages by saying to their Echo Show, "Alexa, play my messages." They can also send voice messages and play them back from the Conversations screen of the Alexa app (just tap the blue microphone button in a contact's conversation thread to send a new voice message). When you receive a voice message, you get a notification from the Alexa app on your phone and the lights on your Echo Show will glow green.
Team supervisors will love the Echo Show's Drop In feature, but team members might come to hate it.
You can also send a text message to a team member in your contact list -- but you have to use the Alexa app. Under the Conversations screen, tap the New Conversations icon, then pick a contact from your address book and select the text field to open your keyboard. From there, type your message and tap the Send button. Team members will get a notification and can read your message as well as respond with a text themselves via the Alexa app.
Team supervisors will love the Echo Show's Drop In feature, but team members might come to hate it. Drop In lets Echo Show users instantly connect -- hands-free. You can enable Drop In via the Alexa app and grant permission to team members from your address book. Then, to Drop In on a team member, just say, "Drop In on [contact name]" via your Echo Show. Alternatively, from the Conversation screen in Alexa app, select the Drop In bar and choose the contact you want to Drop In on. Although you can use the Alexa app to Drop In on other devices, other devices can't drop in on the Alexa app.
When you Drop In on a team member, the light bar on that person's Echo Show will pulse green, and you will automatically connect and can hear anything within range of that device. Your team member should see a frosted glass video that transitions to clear video shortly after connecting, which gives him or her time to prepare for the video call. But anyone can turn off the video at any point during the Drop In simply by saying, "Video off" or by selecting the Video Off button on the screen. In other words, with this feature, your boss can virtually pop into your office to say "Hi" -- wonderful, right? (Sarcasm.)
Amazon offers a Do Not Disturb feature so that you can block Alexa from alerting you about incoming calls and messages. Obviously, this is handy if you're swamped with work and cannot be bothered by Joe in the next cubicle who wants to tell you about his fishing trip over the weekend. To turn on Do Not Disturb, say, "Alexa, don't disturb me." To turn off the feature, say, "Turn off Do Not Disturb," or you can tap the Do Not Disturb button on your Echo Show's screen. To schedule Do Not Disturb for a specific time via the Alexa app, select Settings from the Menu, then choose your device, and tap Scheduled under Do Not Disturb. Then use the slider to toggle Do Not Disturb on or off, and select Edit to change the time you want Do Not Disturb to start or end.  
Amazon has indicated it will update the Echo Show with more calling features in the future. Already, it has announced plans to introduce call waiting, as well as the ability to transfer calls between devices, place calls on hold, leave voicemails and place a three-way call. We suspect it will one day add the ability to do SMS texting and group video calls, making the Echo Show even more useful for team communications. Most recently, it launched multiroom music. However, as of September, the feature only supports tunes from certain streaming services. That means you can't use it to have a multiroom audio call (aka intercom) with several Echo devices in your office -- though, again, that feature could always be enabled down the road with an over-the-air update.
Read also: Back to school: Alexa in your dorm room (ZDNet)
Over time, more Echo Show-specific productivity skills will become available.
Alexa skills expand what you can do with the Echo Show in the workplace. Currently, there are only a few skills that take advantage of the device's screen, but, over time, you can bet more Echo Show-specific skills will be available to use. After all, the Echo platform is only a few years old, and as of January 2017, it had over 15,000 skills. Developers clearly see the potential and are actively creating new ways to make use of the platform.
Here are a few skills worth checking out now to see if they fit your team and its needs (you can enable any of them just by asking Alexa):
Conference Manager by Vonage is a conference skill that interfaces with your Google calendar to identify your next conference call and save you the hassle of dialing in. Just say, "Alexa, start my call" and it will look at your calendar, then extract the conference information and dial the bridge number, meeting number and participant code. It will then call you, so all you have to do is pick up the phone. It currently supports WebEx, Goto Meeting, BlueJeans and Vonage Business conferencing. Check out the skill from here.
AT&T's Send Message skill lets AT&T customers send SMS text messages through their Amazon Echo devices. Once enabled, just say, "Alexa, ask AT&T to text David," followed by your message, such as "I am running late, but will be there in 30 minutes." Check out the skill from here. There's also a new Mastermind skill by Convessa that's in a closed beta. Although we have yet to test it out due to the waitlist, it promises to let Alexa users send and receive SMS text messages, make phone calls, get Caller ID, cast to a Chromecast TV, launch mobile apps, read and manage app notifications and more. Check out that skill from here.
For some people, Twitter is a distraction at work, but for other people, it's a necessary tool for real-time news updates and communication. If your team relies on Twitter for staying in the loop, consider trying the Twitter Reader skill. It's made by Twitter itself. When enabled and linked to your account, it can read your timeline, mentions, retweets and likes. It also lets you search tweets. To get started, say, "Alexa, ask Twitter what is happening." Unfortunately, it doesn't yet let you post tweets. Check out the skill from here.
If your team uses Slack to communicate, then consider Chat Bot for Slack. It isn't an official Slack skill, but after you link your Slack account, it will let you post to Slack -- hands-free -- using your Echo Show. All you have to do is say the Slack channel name and the message you want to post. We can see this skill coming in handy if you're doing something near your desk and can't easily get to your laptop to respond to team members. Check out the skill from here.
Read also: Slack adds screen sharing for video calls (ZDNet)
You can set reminders and named timers via Alexa, which is useful if you have trouble staying on task and need a nudge every now and then. Just say, for instance, "Alexa, remind me to call David at 4 p.m.," and it will notify you at the proper time. Reminders are tied to the device you set them on, so don't expect to set a reminder in your office and hear it on the Echo Show in your living room later. 
Alexa also now supports named timers, as well. You can check how much time is left on a certain timer by asking, "Alexa, how much time is left on my lunch break timer?" and it will let you know. Alternatively, you can use a third-party skill for your reminders and timers. The Cubic Reminder lets you set up reminders triggered by time, weather conditions and TV schedules, of all things. So, you can say, "Alexa, tell Cubic to notify me when next episode of 'Silicon Valley' starts." Check out the skill from here. We're not sure why you'd watch TV while at work, but these features are certainly helpful when it comes to trying to complete tasks on time.
Does your office use Nest's indoor security camera? If so, you can enable the Nest Camera skill to start streaming live video to your Echo Show. Just say, "Alexa, show the lobby camera" or, "Alexa, show feed from the lunch room." Check out the skill from here. Be sure to browse Amazon's skill library for other useful camera skills, such as the Ring video doorbell skill.
For more interesting Alexa productivity skills, see ZDNet's roundup here.
Amazon is actively expanding the ways we can use its Echo devices, including the new Echo Show, either by rolling out updates itself or by allowing developers to create new skills.  For instance, Microsoft and Amazon recently partnered to enable their respective personal digital assistants to work together. That means you will soon be able to say to your Echo Show, "Alexa, open Cortana." Or, if you use a Windows 10 device, you will be able to say, "Cortana, open Alexa." Already, the Echo Show is a useful device for one-to-one video and voice calls, voice and text messaging and conferencing with team members.
It's only a matter of time before Amazon adds even more features, making the Echo Show a go-to communications hub for businesses of all sizes. For now, however, we think it's ideal for small teams looking for interesting ways to spruce up how they keep in touch and stay productive.
Related stories:


The state of California has enlisted one of the most powerful firefighting tools on the planet: a modified Boeing 747 aircraft that can drop 19,200 gallons of fire retardant.  
The aircraft flew six flights over devastating fires across Napa and Sonoma counties in Northern California yesterday from its base near Sacramento. San Francisco CBS affiliate KPIX recorded the aircraft with air-to-air video as it dumped red fire retardant over a burning hillside.
Global Supertanker, the aircraft's owner, says the 747 Supertanker can refill with gel, foam or water in just 30 minutes and can fly at 600 miles per. Now called The Spirit of John Muir, its the largest firefighting airplane in the world by far.
The flightpath from the Supertanker's last path over the fires yesterday shows a series of loops. 
Built in 1991, the 747-400 first flew for Japan Airlines before being converted to a tanker aircraft in 2012 by its previous owner Evergreen International Airlines. Though the aircraft has been under contract by the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection since last month, previous missions have taken it to Chile Israel, Mexico and Spain. 
Since they started burning last weekend, 11 fires in California's Wine Country have killed at least 11 people, injured at least 100 and burned at least 1,500 homes and businesses. In Santa Rosa, California, entire neighborhoods were destroyed.



Tuesday would've been the 156th birthday of the man who invented the Nansen Passport, a document that allowed refugees to find new homes during World War I. Google is marking the day with a Doodle for Fridtjof Nansen.
Born in Norway in 1861, Nansen's early life was dedicated to exploration. He led an expedition across Greenland on cross-country skis and tried to reach the North Pole on another trip. He fell short on the latter, but traveled farther north than anyone had at the time.
He turned his attention to humanitarian work after the onset of World War I. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1922 for his efforts to help prisoners of war and refugees.


EasyJet, an airline best known for flying Brits across Europe to sunny locales, wants you to know it cares about the planet. Two weeks ago, it held an Innovation Day at London's Gatwick Airport to show it's using technology to take better care of its aircraft and lessen their impact on the environment.
The star of the show was one of EasyJet's new A320neo airliners. Outfitted with new engines (neo is an acronym for New Engine Option), these newest A320s cut emissions by 15 percent and reduce noise by 50 percent. EasyJet didn't take us for a flight, but we boarded the aircraft for a taxi across Gatwick from the North Terminal to the airline's maintenance hangar. 
Inside the hangar the airline showed a number of demonstrations, from how it's using drones to inspect its aircraft from damage after lightning strikes to how it's slowly adopting electric tugs to push aircraft back from the gate. But the most astounding announcement is EasyJet's plan to introduce an electric aircraft to fly passengers by 2027. 
Click through the above gallery for the full 35,000-foot view.


Major Twitter investor and ex-Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer said social networks aren't currently able to prevent fake news. 
But he does think they can help curb it. 
With companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google facing heavy scrutiny from Congress over Russian operatives potentially meddling in the 2016 presidential election, Ballmer told Bloomberg TV on Monday that he'd like those companies to adopt a system that lets users know whether they're getting news from a trusted source.
Twitter investor Steve Ballmer said the major social platforms must adopt strategies to fight fake news. 
He compared his plan to Twitter's blue-checkmark "verified" badge. Last week, Facebook introduced a feature offering context on articles posted on users' newsfeed. This includes a button that launches a pop-up window providing details about the article and its publisher.
Ballmer's comments come as Facebook disclosed last week that Russian-linked buyers had placed ads on the social network that were seen by 10 million people. Two weeks ago, Twitter said it had found more than 200 accounts on its platform connected to the buyers of the Facebook ads. And according to reports on Monday, a Google investigation found that Russian agents bought tens of thousands of dollars in advertising on YouTube, Gmail and Google search.
Twitter, Facebook and Google officials are expected to testify before Congress about Russian influence on their platforms on Nov. 1.
When asked about Twitter's ongoing harassment problems, Ballmer said while he believes in free speech, all social networks need to take action to remove "wholly inappropriate" content.
"There is a line once crossed, you need to make sure you are moving that stuff out of the public sphere," he said.  
Regarding President Donald Trump's at-times controversial tweets, Ballmer said Trump has a right to be heard. Ballmer's comments echo a similar sentiment by Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey as the company has no plans to kick Trump off anytime soon. 
"It's what he's thinking," Ballmer said about Trump. "And every voter probably benefits from the ability to hear it directly."
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg takes a 360-degree video tour of the hurricane devastation in Puerto Rico.
Mark Zuckerberg took to virtual reality on Monday for a new partnership with the Red Cross to assist relief efforts in hurricane-whipped Puerto Rico.
The Facebook CEO -- represented by his Oculus avatar -- took Facebook users on a 360-degree video tour of the devastation left on the island by Hurricane Maria. During the presentation, which was hosted from Facebook's headquarters in Silicon Valley, Zuckerberg detailed how the company is using artificial intelligence and satellite imagery to identify areas of need on the island.
"We use artificial intelligence to build what we call 'population maps' so you can look at satellite imagery of an area and get a sense of where it is that people actually live and the density of different places and where there's infrastructure going to in those places," Zuckerberg said. "That's going to help the Red Cross figure out where people are who need help."
Zuckerberg's use of his cartoonish avatar comes as Facebook prepares to host Oculus Connect, its annual Oculus developer conference. Zuckerberg, who spent as much as $3 billion to buy industry leader Oculus VR back in 2014, has championed VR as a way to remake the way we learn, go to the doctor and be entertained.
He also discussed the company's efforts to restore connectivity on the island, much of which was left without power after the category 3 storm lashed the island last month with 125 miles per hour winds. The storm claimed 34 lives on the island.
Zuckerberg said his company had already sent several employees to the island to help ensure networks were operating properly.
"When you are in the middle of a disaster like this, it's really important that people have access to the internet," he said, noting it's useful in communicating with loved ones. "But it's also important so that when relief workers go down there, they can coordinate with each other and know where people need help."
Zuckerberg also noted that Facebook had already donated more than $1 million to relief efforts. 
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


People don't think about us so much since we stopped featuring sexy women eating our big, fat burgers sexily.
I know. But what are you going to do? Everything's so PC these days.
How about we give up?
We're marketing people. We never give up. 
No, give up the company and make money. How about we beg Amazon to buy us? I mean, we're almost as healthy as Whole Foods.
And that is how I imagine that Carl's Jr.'s more fertile minds came up with the marketing ideas that, on Monday, coursed all over Twitter like burger fat rolling into a teenage boy's ear.
It began at 3 a.m. Eastern on Monday, as the burger chain's Twitter account was adorned with, for example, this: "HEY @Amazon BUY US. Srsly. For real. Let's do this. Let's change the future of eating!!"
HEY @Amazon BUY US. Srsly. For real. Let’s do this. Let’s change the future of eating!! #AmazonBuyUs
Srsly.
And then there was this: "OBVI our $5 All Star Meal Boxes & @Amazon boxes belong together. At midnight we'll prove it to you!"
OBVI our $5 All Star Meal Boxes & @Amazon boxes belong together. At midnight we'll prove it to you! #AmazonBuyUs pic.twitter.com/XaEOkvag0t
OBVI.
If only it had stopped with one or two tweets. One might have put it down to good cheer. Or too much lemonade. 
But no. The whole of Columbus Day was filled with Carl's Jr. offering its ideas for a seamless partnership between itself and Amazon. 
BIG IDEA 2/24: “Tender Button” Push a button, get a tender! Delivery time may vary. @Amazon #AmazonBuyUs pic.twitter.com/VlAHyORsqz
Yes, there was more. A lot more:
BIG IDEA 6/24: “Cloud-Based Restaurant” A first in food. How’s it work? Thats where you come in @Amazon #AmazonBuyUs pic.twitter.com/Y1IkHUbaA5
A Carl's Jr. spokeswoman emailed me before I'd even woken up to tell me that the company was "serving Amazon a delicious offer they would be crazy to refuse."
Crazy.
Jeff Jenkins, Carl's Jr.'s chief marketing officer, was excitedly telling USA Today: "This is about generating a conversation around a partnership. The tweets are obviously a start to  try and see where the dialogue goes … have a lot of fun with it, and see  if they find the spirit of it as fun as we do."
Obvi.
Equally obvi, some might feel, Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. 
Srsly.
By later in the day, it seemed that Carl's Jr. was beginning to see that its tease was that of a wooer with a hairless chin.
"Our  goal has always been to put a smile on our customers' faces, and we  hope that's what we've done by celebrating the absurdity of our billion-dollar ideas that we had a ton of fun coming up with," Jenkins told me.
I'm always glad when people have fun, especially a ton of it. I fear, though, that too many of Carl's Jr.'s tweets weren't enjoyed by a ton of people.
Most enjoyed a number of retweets and likes so paltry that, if President Donald Trump had received so few, he would have blamed Twitter censorship. In a tweetstorm, of course.
Carl's Jr.'s Twitter account has known this pain before.
Last month, it tried to mock rival Wendy's. Here's what it replied to a customer who asked how Wendy's compared with Carl's Jr.
LOL they don't
And here's what Wendy's legendarily sharp Twitter account offered in return.
Yeah, for one, if we were going to diss another restaurant we'd have more than zero likes and RTs after 13 hours. https://t.co/VUDXEHKqEB
That's not the sort of performance likely to impress Amazon's Jeff Bezos.
Technically Incorrect: Bringing you a fresh and irreverent take on tech.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Apple CEO Tim Cook met Monday with French President Emmanuel Macron.
Apple CEO Tim Cook met with Emmanuel Macron on Monday in Paris but reportedly didn't quarrel with the French president over a proposal in Europe to extract more taxes from tech giants.
Macron is spearheading a group of European nations in an effort to change laws that allow companies to minimize their tax burden by funneling revenue through countries such as Ireland and the Netherlands. The two didn't discuss past disputes, but Cook accepted that laws are changing to hold companies accountable for taxes where profits are actually earned, Macron's office told Bloomberg.
Tax deals in Europe have come under scrutiny by the EU over the past couple of years. The EU believes Ireland hasn't been collecting enough taxes and instead has been giving companies like Apple too big of a break on Ireland's already low 12.5 percent tax rate.
Last year, the EU ordered Apple to pay a whopping 13 billion euros ($14.5 billion) in back taxes. Apple has contended that the commission is trying to change the rules after the fact.
The meeting comes less than a week after European regulators slapped Amazon with a bill for 250 million euros (about $294 million) in unpaid taxes. The European Commission determined that Amazon had had an illegal deal with Luxembourg since 2003 that allowed the company to move money between its subsidiaries so profits were taxed there instead of a country with a higher corporate rate. 
The meeting, held at the French presidential palace at Cook's request, also focused on climate change, education and French economic reforms, Bloomberg reported. 
Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter.


Google is the world's largest online advertisement platform.
Russian operatives spent tens of thousands of dollars on ads on YouTube, Gmail and Google search, an internal Google investigation has uncovered.
The ads are the first evidence Google has found that show Russia was trying to use the company's advertising platform to influence the 2016 US presidential election, according to a Washington Post report on Monday.
At the same time, those ads do not appear to have originated from the same Kremlin-backed source that bought ads across Facebook, said sources familiar with the investigation, suggesting that a number of entities could share responsibility in the Russian effort to spread disinformation.
"We have a set of strict ads policies including limits on political ad targeting and prohibitions on targeting based on race and religion," a Google spokesperson said Monday. "We are taking a deeper look to investigate attempts to abuse our systems, working with researchers and other companies, and will provide assistance to ongoing inquiries."
The presence of fake news stories on social media, and charges of Russian meddling, cast a shadow over the 2016 presidential election in the US. A year later, tech companies and government officials are still trying to figure out the full extent of the issues.
Google has for the most part avoided the level of scrutiny aimed at fellow Silicon Valley stalwart Facebook, which handed over 3,000 Russia-backed ads to Congress earlier this month. But Google's own investigation got its spark from pressure by  Congress to determine the extent to which Russian operatives used social media and bought ads across internet platforms.
Facebook's role extends beyond ads to the sorts of hoax stories that showed up in people's news feeds. Over the weekend, the its security chief defended the social media giant's use of algorithms, describing the problem of fake news as larger and more complicated than many realize.
"I am seeing a ton of coverage of our recent issues driven by  stereotypes of our employees and attacks against fantasy, strawman tech  [companies]," Facebook's Alex Stamos said in a Twitter thread. "Nobody of substance at the big companies thinks of algorithms as neutral."
On Nov. 1, Google officials are expected to testify in front of Congress on the issue, along with representatives from Facebook and Twitter.
Originally posted Oct. 9 at 5:42 a.m. PT. Update at 7:16 a.m. PT: Added comment from Google and background information.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Uber is playing by the rules.
Ride-hailing giant Uber is suspending its unlicensed service UberPOP in Oslo until Norway introduces new rules.
UberPOP allows unlicensed drivers to provide lifts to Uber users, differing from Uber X, which uses licensed drivers. It has already been suspended in cities across Europe, including Paris and Brussels, for contravening local rules.
Other Uber services, Uber Black and Uber XXL will continue to operate in the Norwegian capital.
It marks the beginning of a new, more humble chapter for Uber, following the announcement last month that the company's license will not be renewed in London.
"We've learned the hard way that we must change as a company in order to serve the millions of riders and drivers who rely on us. With our new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi onboard, it's a new era for Uber," said Uber in a statement to Reuters. "That's why it's now time to pause UberPOP in Norway, in order to relaunch under new regulations."
Uber is taking a similar path in Finland, which is currently in the midst of introducing new taxi laws, due to come into effect next summer.


Microsoft's Lumia 550 was one of the first phones equipped with Windows 10 Mobile. But now, the OS is on the way out. 
Bill Gates has given up his Windows phone. HP is pulling production of its flagship Windows handset. Now Microsoft has finally seen the writing on the wall -- there aren't enough people using Windows 10 Mobile or enough apps to make it viable.
Corporate vice president of Windows 10 and head of Microsoft's "PC-Tablet-Phone" division, Joe Belfiore, said on Twitter Sunday that Microsoft will continue to support Windows 10 Mobile with bug fixes and security updates, but new features and hardware are no longer front and centre.
Of course we'll continue to support the platform.. bug fixes, security updates, etc. But building new features/hw aren't the focus. 😟 https://t.co/0CH9TZdIFu
Microsoft is no upstart in the mobile space. It produced versions of its software for mobile devices for more than 20 years -- starting with Windows CE for personal digital assistants in 1996, and later with Windows Mobile in 2000.
But the ecosystem has struggled since the launch of Apple's iOS in 2007 and Google's Android operating system in 2008. According to the most recent sales figures from Kantar Worldpanel, Windows phones account for just 1.3 percent of the market in the US, bested only by BlackBerry at 0.3 percent. Compare that with Android's 64 percent share of new phone sales and 34 percent for iOS (figures that are closely matched in the UK and Australia).
Microsoft has attempted to leverage its legacy in the PC space to push further into mobile -- Windows 10 Mobile was billed as the "everywhere OS" that would let users shift seamlessly between desktop, tablet and mobile. 
But users have long complained the lack of apps on Windows Mobile devices is a deal breaker.
While Belfiore said Microsoft has tried "very hard" to provide incentives for app developers to get apps onto Windows Mobile, the "volume of users is too low for most companies to invest" in the ecosystem.
We have tried VERY HARD to incent app devs. Paid money.. wrote apps 4 them.. but volume of users is too low for most companies to invest. ☹️ https://t.co/ePsySxR3LB
But don't discount a comeback. On the same day Belfiore poured 140 characters out for Windows Mobile, BlackBerry -- the company with less than 1 percent market share in the US -- unveiled a brand new all-touch smartphone, the BlackBerry Motion.
In the world of mobile phones, it seems big brands are never truly gone for long. And if nothing else, we'll always have SwiftKey.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Elon Musk thinks Clips is blatantly intrusive.
Elon Musk isn't sure about artificial intelligence.
He worries it could start World War III. He thinks it's a far greater threat than North Korea. He wants it regulated immediately.
So when Google presented its new AI-based camera Google Clips last week, you might imagine that Musk wouldn't be overly excited.
On Saturday, however, he seemed to accuse Google of a blatant disregard for privacy. 
Musk took to Twitter and referenced a video of Clips posted by the Verge. "This doesn't even *seem* innocent," he tweeted. 
This doesn't even *seem* innocent
Clips, you see, works by using AI to instantly recognize faces of special interest to its owner and, when it spots those faces, takes candid pictures of them. 
Without the face-owners necessarily knowing. 
An LED light does flash to say the camera is on. There are, however, lots of those around the house that we happily ignore.
Google declined to comment specifically on Musk's tweet.
A company spokeswoman did tell me, however, that Clips is "a camera and made to be used intentionally to capture more moments -- 7-second clips -- of the people that are important to you."
She added: "All  of the machine learning happens on the camera and Clips does not  connect to the internet to transfer content. And, just like any  point-and-shoot, nothing leaves the camera until you decide to save it and share it."
The company is marketing it toward families. 
Some might say, though, that it suffers from the same photographing-people-when-they-don't-know-you're-doing-it thing that made Google Glass such an anti-social tool.
Perhaps it's the vivid memory of Glassholes that encourages the company to discourage anyone from clipping it to themselves. Google claims that the camera has to be stationary to achieve its best effects.
Musk's overt criticism is unlikely to amuse Google. He has a dedicated following. 
Some might say, though, that the problem with Clips is a problem with much of technological progress.
Why, during Hurricane Irma, Tesla remotely boosted the battery life of some cars at their owners' request.
If it can do that, couldn't it stop cars remotely too? 
At heart, you either trust the company you're dealing with or you don't. And Silicon Valley companies aren't currently doing too much to make themselves trustworthy at all.


Facebook Security Chief Alex Stamos defends the use of machine learning in combating the fake-news problem.
Facebook's security chief is warning critics that the fake news problem is more complicated than many are aware.
Alex Stamos, who's spearheading the company's probe into Russian-linked ads placed on its service during the 2016 election campaign, on Saturday defended the company's use of algorithms, which determine what users see in their news feeds, parsing out hate speech and threats of violence.
"I am seeing a ton of coverage of our recent issues driven by stereotypes of our employees and attacks against fantasy, strawman tech [companies]," he said in a Twitter thread. "Nobody of substance at the big companies thinks of algorithms as neutral.
"Nobody is not aware of the risks," he wrote. 
A lot of people aren't thinking hard about the world they are asking SV to build. When the gods wish to punish us they answer our prayers.
Facebook has drawn flak for its role in perpetuating hoaxes and its influence on the presidential election, and has in recent months worked to combat the rise of fake news. In response, the company said in August it would expand a program to offer related articles on a trending topic that offer fact-check articles and other perspectives.
The company also said it would use "updated machine learning" to detect more potential hoaxes and send them to third-party fact checkers. 
The abundance of fake news on the internet in the lead-up to President Donald Trump's election victory last year has become a hot-button issue, entangling tech giants like Facebook and Google. Numerous allegations say the fake news shared on the social networks helped Trump win.
Stamos' team said in August it had identified about 500 "inauthentic accounts" that bought $100,000 worth of ads that targeted highly politicized social issues such as immigration, guns and LGBT rights. Facebook has sent records of the ads to government investigators looking into Russia's alleged meddling in the 2016 US presidential election.
Facebook didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Once upon a time, there was a world beyond the screen ...
Taking responsibility for what you've gone and done is hard.
Especially when you're in the tech industry and insist you're making the world a better place.
Yet some, at least, are reaching an age far enough beyond puberty to stop and wonder about the meaning of "better."
Take Jonathan Rosenstein. 
The Guardian reported Friday that the former Facebook engineer, who created the "like" button (and helped create Gchat at Google), has set up parental controls on his iPhone. 
Well, he got his assistant to do it for him.
The purpose, it seems, is to prevent him from downloading any time-sucking, mind-numbing apps. 
"It is very common for humans to develop things with  the best of intentions and for them to have unintended, negative  consequences," he told The Guardian.
It's not so common for humans to admit this.
"One reason I think it is particularly important for us to talk about this now is that we may be the last generation that can remember life before," Rosenstein said. (At 34, he's getting on in tech years.)
I'm just about old enough to remember life before. Before, it felt like I had more free time. Now it is, indeed, a constant battle with oneself to avoid looking at one's phone because something "important" might have appeared there. 
Like an Instagram "like."
Constant use of your iPhone has become "normal."
It gave me pause, then, when Rosenstein's admission was published on the same day that Apple's chief design officer, Jony Ive, insisted that constant iPhone use represents misuse.
In an interview at The New Yorker's TechFest, Ive talked about the "authentic pursuit of excellence" and happiness.
"If I get to sit down for two hours with one of the world's best silicon chip designers, I could not be happier," Ive said.
You see, designers aren't like you and me. They have a chip in their hearts, not on their shoulders.
But he insisted that the definition of iPhone misuse is "constant use." 
This may be a noble thing to say. However, designers of both hardware and (especially) software deliberately create products that encourage you to use them constantly.
Many tech companies exist to follow you around, so that they can use your data to make money. 
And now that artificial intelligence has come along, that ability to follow you around -- and prompt you to do everything through your gadgets -- has grown. After all, your Siri and Google assistant are designed specifically to get to know you like the back of an algorithm, and to do that they need all the information they can get.
When an iPhone is beautiful, allows you to communicate, gives you information and answers, and even offers you Instagram likes, you're surely likely to use it all the more, not less.
Neither Apple nor Facebook responded to a request for comment.
It's surely the case that many tech companies -- Facebook and Apple included -- have contributed to our almost primal need to stare into our phones. Even when we cross the street.
Apple is clearly not oblivious to this. Its iOS 11 is already nagging me to download a feature that will stop me using my phone in the car. 
That, though, is a safety issue. 
When technology has moved fast, broken our former way of life and insisted that all things must be digital, it's getting harder and harder for humans to resist.
Rosenstein and Ive have clearly considered some of the negative consequences of their creations.
Ive has always been characterized by his decency. It's entirely authentic that he should be aware of iPhone overuse. 
But, really, what can we do about it? Someone needs to find a way to get us to think different.
Or is it already too late?
CNET en Español: Get all your tech news and reviews in Spanish.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.


Attendees gather for keynote sessions. 
Why is this still happening?
That was the subject of a rant delivered by Hasini Sundaresan, a junior computer science major at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Sundaresan spent the summer interning at Juniper Networks in Sunnyvale, California. The day news broke that a Google employee had written a 10-page document trashing diversity efforts and suggesting women are biologically unsuited to work in the industry, she was at Juniper, virtually across the street from Google's Sunnyvale campus, trying to make sense of it all.
The summer had been great so far. She described Juniper as being "full-on for diversity."
And yet, in a metaphorical sense, she couldn't help thinking about how someone across the street thought she didn't belong in computer science.
"It was hard to see that so close to where I was," she said. "In a place where everything is so futuristic, there's still this backward mentality."
Sundaresan wasn't alone in wrestling with this issue. She was one of the 18,000 attendees at this year's Grace Hopper Celebration. It's an annual conference put on by AnitaB.org, an organization aimed at the advancement of women in computing. 
You can imagine that the Google employee's document was a popular topic of conversation. There were more than a few subtle and not so subtle references to it in various keynote presentations, and it underpins why so many women flock to this conference every year, boosting attendance records higher and higher. Prejudice is, in fact, still happening.
Over three days at the Orange County Convention Center in Orlando, Florida, women at all career stages gather to listen to speakers, attend sessions, network, look for jobs, or just be reminded that even if they're the only woman on their team at work, they're definitely not the only woman in the industry.
"I've seen [students] being spooked by the challenges ahead," said Brenda Darden Wilkerson, who just this October took the reins as president and CEO of AnitaB.org. She wants to make it known: "We understand what you're experiencing, and you're not alone."
For students, this is a particularly important message. Back in the 1980s, women accounted for about 37 percent of graduating computer science majors. For myriad reasons, including the marketing of early personal computers to boys and the rise of the typically male, supergenius geek in popular culture, that percentage has fallen to around 18 percent.
That's troubling for a variety of reasons, including the fact that tech positions are among the country's highest paying jobs. A 2016 report from IT consulting firm Accenture found that by missing out on tech gigs, women could be missing out on nearly $299 billion in economic opportunity by 2025. Accenture also projected that women's share of tech jobs will only shrink.
This year I spent a good chunk of my time at Grace Hopper, held Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, walking around the career fair, a sprawling event dotted with corporate whimsy. Companies handed out swag and set up igloos, tiki huts and brightly colored signs to draw job seekers toward recruiters. I talked with students about what it's like to be studying to enter the tech field.
They know the deal. They've read the articles. They know they could end up sitting near the writer of the next anti-diversity document. They also know that letting it get them down isn't going to help them succeed. Many are finding the support they need at their schools. Others, not so much. And some are already thinking about how they can help the women who will enter the field after them.
Allison Mutka grew up hearing about computer science. Both her parents are in the industry. She also heard from her mother, though, that women have been underrepresented in the field for a long time.
"She would always tell me that when she was going through school, she was one of the only females," the Michigan State University sophomore said, standing near the career fair entrance. "She'd get put down."
Though Mutka discovered she genuinely liked computer science, she was also motivated to get into the field by her desire to help close the gender gap. She and her classmates were at Grace Hopper to attend sessions and scope out companies.
Some things have changed since Mutka's mother was in school, but women students still say they're woefully in the minority in their classes.
IaOng Moua, a senior at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, who chose computer science as a second bachelor's degree, said she feels lucky if she's enrolled in a class with one other girl.
"In class when I need help and I look around and I'm like, 'OK, those are all guys, the professor is a guy,' I have to step it up and just ask," she said, expressing a common feeling of isolation.
For Karen Taub, a Georgia Tech junior from Venezuela, she's not just dealing with being one of the only women in her classes, she's also one of the only Hispanics. That adds another layer of complexity when doing something like trying to find a mentor who shares your background. In the wider industry, we're not even totally sure how many women of color work at the tech giants, because they usually don't specifically report it.
A report from CNET sister site TechRepublic found that while many universities are doing a better job of attracting women to introductory computer science courses, their graduation rates remain low. There are plenty of off-ramps for women as they progress in their studies, such as lack of mentorship and support, and all the trials and tribulations that come with being a minority.
Those are problems that just don't seem to die.
Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, California, is trying to break those patterns in computer science education. Under President Maria Klawe, more than half the school's computer science majors are women.
"That's more or less what we expect from our graduates, that one, you're going to be very thoughtful about the places you pick, and two, you're going to fight if you see things you think aren't right and you're going to speak up," Klawe said over the phone a week before the conference.  
Being a minority in tech isn't easy.
During her opening keynote address, Melinda Gates, philanthropist and co-founder of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, talked about the double-edged sword of high-profile diversity scandals.
After all, in 2017 we've seen major shakeups in the venture capital world as women stepped forward to call out VCs like Chris Sacca and Dave McClure for sexual harassment. Susan Fowler's account of her time at Uber has shed a light on Silicon Valley's often-talked about bro culture.
Hearing all that is tough. But, Gates said, it's not necessarily a bad thing.
"In some ways, the bad news is actually good news," she said. "We're finally seeing consequences for bad behavior."
Most of the students I spoke with have some sense that staying in and succeeding in tech will likely take some extra gumption, and a certain mindset going in.
Whenever Michigan State sophomore Sarah Johanknecht speaks with a company, she makes a point of asking about its diversity efforts.
"I want to be respected and appreciated wherever I work," she said.
Candice Biamby, an information systems major at the University of Georgia, reminds herself of how she might be falling into certain habits. She said she'd read that if a man sees a job listing and has perhaps two of five requirements, he'll still apply for the job. Women are more likely to discount themselves and not apply if they don't meet every single requirement.  
"I'm just going to go for it," Biamby said. "I'm going to try my best. If they like me, they'll interview me. If they don't, you have nothing to lose."
Seeing scandals ripple through tech makes Eseosa Asiruwa, a senior at Hamilton College, feel determined.
"It makes me feel more resilient and [I want to] prove the naysayers wrong," she said.
"We've achieved a lot," former US Chief Technical Officer Megan Smith said Wednesday morning, looking into the audience. "And yet this year has been really striking in the places people have been falling down."
The specter of prejudice in the tech industry frequently haunts the corners of an event like Grace Hopper, but attendees refuse to let it overwhelm them.
While these young women haven't even fully launched themselves into the industry, they're already thinking about what they can do to help those who will come after them.
Mutka and Johanknecht, friends from Michigan State, are involved with a campus club for women in computing, where they do outreach at local schools, getting kids exposed to computer science at as young an age as possible. Through a Google-funded program called igniteCS, they volunteer at high schools, teaching basic programming languages. They're also helping to start a chapter of Girls Who Code, an organization with the mission of getting girls into tech.
"I think that's probably the biggest thing that we can do to improve the ratio at all these companies: just get more women into computer science," Mutka said.
As for Sundaresan, the UT Dallas student who felt so frustrated by that now ex-Googler's memo, she's also volunteering at underprivileged schools, and she's active in a group called Women Who Compute, which also organizes outreach opportunities and brings speakers to campus.
Ultimately, she's optimistic, particularly about members of her generation and how they'll treat each other in the years to come. She loves computer science and she's not abandoning ship.
"The world is changing," she said, "and it's time we all get on board with that fact."
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.


As of this weekend drink-drive breathalyser will be 50 years old in the UK.
The first roadside breath-test was carried out by police on a motorist in Shropshire on 8 October, 1967. For context, that's when the Bee Gees were celebrating their number one hit "Massachusetts", Harold Wilson was prime minister and Milton Keynes had just been invented.
The original "blow in the bag" breathalyser was a simple device. It was initially used to confirm a police officer's suspicion that a driver might be drunk, which then had to be followed up by a blood or urine test at the station to provide evidential proof.
"In the first 12 months alone, there were 1000 fewer deaths and 11,000 fewer serious injuries on the roads - proving that the use of the 'drunkometer' was both necessary and justified", said Hunter Abbott, managing director of breathalyser firm AlcoSense Laboratories.
An electronic device was later developed, which allowed officers to accurately quantify an individual's alcohol level on the spot. Blood and urine tests were still required until infrared breath testing in the 1990s offered comparable accuracy.
The criteria for prosecution were less sophisticated before the test was introduced, with officers asking motorists to walk in a straight line or stand on one leg.


YouTube has tweaked the way its search engine works.
After sharp criticism, YouTube has made a change to its search engine, choosing to promote videos from more mainstream news outlets above fringe content. The change comes in the wake of the mass shooting in Las Vegas, after the video site allegedly promoted conspiracy theories.
YouTube, owned by Google, confirmed the change on Thursday. The Wall Street Journal earlier reported the news.
In the wake of the attack Sunday that left at least 59 dead and more than 500 people injured, some YouTube videos spread misinformation. For example, according to the Journal's report, when searching for "las vegas shooting," one video said there were multiple shooters involved, which law enforcement has refuted.
As of this writing, that same search query now yields videos from Vox, Fox News, NBC's Today and USA Today, in that order.
The tweak to YouTube's search results was previously planned, but the rollout was sped up due to the criticism. YouTube is the world's largest video site, with more than a billion visitors a month. This isn't the first time the site has gotten into trouble because of its automated systems. Earlier this year, YouTube faced an advertiser boycott after its ad tech placed advertisements next to extremist and hate content.
Google, YouTube's parent, faced a backlash after the Vegas shooting too. The search engine reportedly spread misinformation about the event in its "Top News" section.
Google has also been been criticized regarding false news during the 2016 election. Google is reportedly conducting an internal investigation to examine how Russian agents could have exploited its services to interfere in the election. The company has been invited by Congress to testify on a panel on the subject on Nov. 1. Google has not yet said whether it will participate.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.


Ghostface Killah is a co-founder of a cryptocurrency firm.
Wu-Tang Clan rapper Ghostface Killah has co-founded a cryptocurrency firm and hopes to raise $30 million during its initial coin offering, according to a CNBC report Wednesday.
Killah's firm, Cream Capital, apparently takes its name from Wu-Tang Clan's 1993 classic song "C.R.E.A.M." But instead of standing for "Cash rules everything around me," the acronym this time represents the trademarked Crypto Rules Everything Around Me, Cream Capital Chief Executive Brett Westbrook told CNBC.
The burgeoning market for cryptocurrencies, which has grown so quickly that one bitcoin was worth more than an ounce of gold in March, has seen digital currency entrepreneurs flocking to ICOs to create and sell digital tokens to investors, who include celebs such as Paris Hilton.
Still, regulators aren't taking to ICOs well. The practice, which Bloomberg said netted $1.6 billion in the last year, has prompted security concerns from the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
"I think the interest of celebrities is a bit of a double-edged sword," Westbrook told CNBC. "I personally think that anything that puts cryptocurrencies in front of the eyes of everyday people is a great thing for the markets overall.
"On the other hand, I believe it's important that celebrities know the importance of their endorsements and understand the underlying principles of blockchain technology," he said. "The last thing we need is a household name promoting what turns out to be a scam ICO."
Cream Capital plans to begin selling "Cream Dividend" tokens next month, which can be exchanged for Ether, the value tokens of the Ethereum blockchain.
"By 2020, we intend to capture more than half of the global cryptocurrency ATM market and make cryptocurrencies more accessible to the general public than ever before," Cream Capital said in a press release.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.


Debbie Sterling talked to the audience at the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing. 
When Debbie Sterling took her first prototype of GoldieBlox to the New York Toy Fair, she had an inauspicious realization.
"I walked in and it was a bunch of old white men in suits," Sterling told the audience at the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing conference in Orlando, Florida, on Thursday during her keynote address.
Sterling, who graduated from Stanford University with a degree in engineering, started GoldieBlox, the company, in 2012 in conjunction with a Kickstarter campaign after a heap of rejection from the toy fair. She raised $285,881, beating her goal of $150,000. It's a toy line that includes books, construction sets, action figures and more featuring characters, including a little girl named Goldie, who likes to solve problems and build things.
GoldieBlox is part of a move to get girls interested in science, technology, engineering and mathematics at an earlier age. Studies, like a March 2017 report from Microsoft, show that girls tend to lose interest in STEM subjects around the time they get to high school. It's yet another potential off ramp at a time when the numbers of women in tech are already low.  
I spoke with Sterling at the conference about ignoring her GPA, creating a character who isn't a princess, and teaching 4-year-olds the word "engineer."
Q: You've said that you didn't know what an engineer was until high school. Why is it important to make sure girls know what that is early in life?Sterling: The joke I always tell is I thought an engineer was a train driver. I think that may literally be because as a little kid, you have career flash cards and it's, like, here's the doctor, here's the nurse, here's the veterinarian and here's the engineer, and it's, like, a train conductor. The tough thing is engineering is so broad, but it's so important to introduce the concept of what an engineer is at a young age, because otherwise we're going to have so many kids, especially girls, just not even considering it when they go to college
You've talked about going to Stanford and being one of a few women in your classes. That can be off ramp for women -- what kept you in the major?Sterling: Prior to Stanford, I was a straight A student. Engineering was really the first time in my life I didn't get an A. Up until that point, I placed so much value on my grades that I think a lot of women just drop out because we're raised to be such perfectionists. What kept me in is I was genuinely interested in the material, and I understood I was just really far behind the other students. I'd come from a public school. I hadn't had any engineering training before and most of my other classmates -- these are kids who came from private schools and had already been doing robotics. I got to the point where I was, like, OK, I'm probably in the bottom third [of the class] and I accept that. I'm probably not going to get straight As and that's OK. I'm not going to worry about my GPA. I'm going to stick in here and do my best because I'm interested in this. As soon as I made that mental leap, that was one of the main things that kept me in. I stopped caring about my GPA.
The other one that kept me in was I had to get over my own ego and I had to finally just be willing to just raise my hand and say, "I don't get this." It sounds so obvious, but I feel like so many young girls and women, again, because we're raised to be such perfectionists, they don't want to admit when they don't know something. As soon as I started doing that, things started to change.
During the keynote, you talked about how Goldie isn't a nerd but she also isn't a princess. Why was striking a balance there important?Sterling: I was looking at the landscape of children's media, and there are so many stereotypes. Most of the girl characters are very shallow, materialistic, perfect, beautiful princesses who are into fashion. That's very aspirational. As a little girl, I aspire, I want to be beautiful, I want to have cool clothes, I want to be popular -- and that's an easy way for entertainment companies to create a character that girls will like. On the other hand, if you looked at the stereotypes of the smart girl, she's always the brunette with glasses in the corner with no friends. It felt, like, how do I create a character that every little girl wants to be, but she needs to be cooler than a princess. But does every little girl want to be a nerd? No.
GoldieBlox has a story component to the sets. What were some of the first messages or themes you wanted to get across to girls?Sterling: The first product that we put out, which we launched on Kickstarter, was GoldieBlox and the Spinning Machine. There were a bunch of things that I crammed in there. That toy probably targets girls between the ages of 4 and 6 and so maybe on the higher end, they're just starting to read. Some of the feedback I got early on from editors was, "You have the word 'engineering' in here. That word is too advanced, take it out." I insisted on leaving that word in because, to your point earlier, I want the word "engineer" to become a word that a 4-year-old or a 5-year-old would know.
Another one is I want girls to start becoming comfortable with failure and [the idea] that failure is just a natural part of being an engineer, or being an entrepreneur, an inventor, a leader. So in the first book, there's a moment where Goldie just doesn't know how to solve a problem.  
It's tricky because girls are raised to be so afraid of failure. The thing we've really tried to crack is here's a girl who actually fails all the time and that's OK. Sometimes she triumphs and sometimes she falls flat on her face, but she doesn't give up. Finding a way to tell that story and make that aspirational is the goal.   
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
She's left him. But there's solace in Sonos. 
Sonos executives must be looking at vast tech companies making smart speakers and resisting the urge to hum a dirge.
Amazon launched its latest Echos last week. Google on Wednesday presented its new Homes -- including a charmingly unattractive Max that claims to offer quite a boom. Then there's Apple, whose music-based HomePod comes to market in December.
Sonos has a new speaker, too. The Sonos One, which the company claims work with Alexa now and will play nice with Google assistant and Siri next year.
The company's biggest concern, however, it that you'll simply forget all about Sonos, as the bigger brands toot their relentless horns. Sonos has, therefore, decided to appeal to your humanity and the heart that allegedly still beats within. 
Its released new ads for the One that press play on your feelings. They insist that Sonos is a mood enhancer.
In one, a teen is in his room, lamenting a lost love. Naturally, he plays lament-worthy music. But when he hears mom knocking, he goes hardcore. As every teen with self-esteem would.
Naturally, mom isn't without her human (and technological) smarts. She hears through his attempt at subterfuge.
In another ad, a more adult man isn't in the best of spirits. 
Do you see a pattern here?
He's made dinner at home. His lover doesn't turn up. She's working late. Of course she is. When she finally gets home, he doesn't become frustrated -- as so many lesser lover might. Instead, he unpauses a romantic song he was listening to earlier.
It really is this easy, apparently, to create loving harmony. And I thought relationships were hard.
Oh, this is all very nice.
It's attempting to preempt Apple's pretensions for HomePod to be "the new sound of home" by suggesting that Sonos is "the smart speaker for music lovers."
The problem is that even music lovers now treat music as something of a disposable commodity. There's so much of it around that songs often don't have the meaning they used to have in times of scarcity, when CDs were still magical.
Do these ads make a compelling case for Sonos? 
They're authentic to the brand. They use good music and highly televisual people.
But ads like these are like Tinder profiles. It's too easy to swipe left and dance to a different tune. 
Technically Incorrect: Bringing you a fresh and irreverent take on tech.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Apple CEO Tim Cook tweeted out a message honoring Steve Jobs on the sixth anniversary of Jobs' death. 
Six years is a lifetime in the technology industry, but Jobs' influence lives on. The visionary co-founder of the world's most-profitable company died October 5, 2011, after a long battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 56. 
Remembering Steve today. Still with us, still inspiring us. “Make something wonderful, and put it out there.” pic.twitter.com/7aOCPkwU0U
Jobs was always a charismatic and controversial leader, beloved by many (including millions of Apple fanboys throughout the world). He was equally known for his attention to detail and for a temperament that meant he didn't always play well with others. 
In his tweet, Cook used part of the same quote from Jobs he used last month when introducing the iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus and iPhone X at Apple's new Steve Jobs theater.  
There's lots of ways to be as a person, and some people express their deep appreciation in different ways. But one of the ways that I believe people express their appreciation to the rest of humanity is to make something wonderful and put it out there. And you never meet the people, you never shake their hands, you never hear their story or tell yours. But somehow in the act of making something with a great deal of care and love, something's transmitted there. And it's a way of expressing to the rest of our species, our deep appreciation. So we need to be true to who we are. And remember what's really important to us. That's what's going to keep Apple, Apple: is if we keep us, us.
You can listen to last month's presentation on YouTube. 


For many people, the option to work remotely has gone from perk to necessity.
A whopping 85 percent of North American office workers say it's important for their employer to provide technology that lets them work from home, according to a study published last month by IT solutions and services provider Softchoice. Seventy-four percent would leave their current jobs for one that allows them to work remotely more often, even if they didn't get paid more.
A majority of employees want to be fitted with technology that lets them work from anywhere, according to a recent Softchoice study.
Mobile devices and cloud services have made working from home a more viable and desirable option for many employees. The Softchoice study, which surveyed 1,000 full-time North American office workers who use a computer or mobile device for most of their workday, found 83 percent of office workers already use technology to collaborate with people who aren't in the same room or office. 
If companies want to recruit and retain top talent, especially with a growing technology skills gap, they'll likely have to adopt a model that caters more to employees' interests and demands.
"To stay competitive, we have to position ourselves as an organization that these skilled technologists want to work for," said Francis Li, vice president of IT at Softchoice."That includes being able to support a more flexible work environment, and, potentially, employing individuals that are not necessarily situated in the offices that your company operates within."
Tech companies including Amazon, Dell and Adobe were listed among Flexjobs' top 100 companies offering remote jobs in 2017. Other companies, including IBM in May and Yahoo back in 2013, made headlines for calling remote workers back into the office.
"Some companies are concerned that there will be a reduction in coordination, innovation or interaction when people are not in the same space," said Jennifer Deal, senior research scientist at the Center for Creative Leadership.
Allowing employees to work remotely also means organizations have to make the right devices and technology available to them.
The survey found that only around 55 percent of employers provided laptops, 31 percent provided smartphones and 19 percent provided tablets to their workers. Eighteen percent of workers say a lack of the right technology is the reason they can't work from home.
Even when the right new technology is made available, one in three employees say they get little to no training on how to use it. In addition, 78 percent of workers who utilize collaboration technology frequently experience technical difficulties, from having trouble remotely joining a meeting to having connection quality issues.
More than half of employees surveyed have brought their personal devices to the office instead of using the equipment their employers provide. Some cite inadequate or outdated office technology, while others say they're more efficient working off of their personal devices.  
Millennials, who are now the largest demographic in the workforce, are twice as likely to feel more productive working from home than Baby Boomers. They're also twice as likely to feel that their employer-issued work device is outdated, the report states.
"If you're going to fill your technology gap, you definitely have to take a look at the Millennial segment of the population, as they're going to be your only talent pool at some point, along with the generations that follow them," Li said.
There's also the fear that technology will "take over." One in four office workers are worried that technology will entirely replace their jobs within five years. The jobs they feel are most at risk are accounting, administration, IT, sales and human resources.
While there are entire roles being automated -- particularly those at big companies with a small number of highly repetitive tasks, like in IT -- for the most part, intelligent automation is replacing specific tasks, not entire roles, said Stanton Jones, director and principal analyst at technology research and advisory firm ISG.
"In most cases, we see companies using this as an opportunity to make people more productive, because when a person is paired up with a robot, they can take on more work or use the freed-up time to focus on higher-value activities," Jones said.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.


A few blocks behind the Tate Modern and Shakespeare's Globe theater is a place few tourists, or even Londoners, ever see. Keep going past the Tesco Express and through an unmarked driveway to reach a car park jammed with black cabs.
It's one of the last spots in all of London where drivers of the city's famous taxis can have a rest, get their cabs washed and buy parts at an adjacent store. If they're hungry, there's a cash-only cafe in what looks like a double-wide mobile home. Open 24 hours, the Great Suffolk Street Taxi Cafe is a place for comfort food and conversation.
London cabbies are famous for being opinionated. These days, Uber is a popular topic.
After Transport for London (TfL), the British capital's transport regulator, refused on Sept. 22 to renew Uber's license to operate, we visited the cafe to see what cabbies thought of the news. We were expecting elation, but the reality was a mix of defiance, quiet resignation and "bring it on." To many of the drivers, Uber, which arrived in London in 2012, is destroying a proud and historic tradition that plays a vital and iconic role in the city's life. Competition is fine, they say, but fair competition is not what this is.
Sean Paul Day, a taxi driver for 18 years, says Uber is destroying a proud and historic local culture. He's also a co-founder of a taxi-hailing app called TaxiApp.
The car park is a busy place. Drivers socialize in the patchy afternoon sun and a steady stream of cabs (officially called Hackney carriages) arrive and park at the disused gas pumps of an old service station.  
There's not a lot to capture your attention inside the spartan cafe, with its hard plastic chairs and bare tables. A TV plays Sky Sports. The menu is equally spartan: instant coffee for £1, a full English breakfast (served all day) for £5, and a selection of classic British desserts like sticky toffee pudding, jam roly-poly and spotted dick. We're only minutes from some of London's poshest restaurants, but this feels miles away. (The Taxi Cafe is open to the public.) 
The taxi rest area is located in a courtyard car park surrounded by buildings.
Around several of the tables, groups of cabbies enjoy their lunch with few moments of silence. It takes a while to break into the conversation at the next table, but just a brief mention of Uber wins us an invitation to sit and share a cuppa and a chinwag.  
Sean Paul Day, a driver of 18 years, has the table's center seat. Tall and animated, he speaks rapidly and gets straight to the point. "The KGB would have given their right arm to have Uber's power," he says while eating a large plate of fish and chips (at £9, one of the pricier dishes on the menu). Uber "is a global, heavily financed profiteer going against a local taxi trade. As big as the taxi service is in London, it's still local."
Great meetings in London, including w some of the drivers who rely on our app.  Determined to make things right in this great city! pic.twitter.com/QLgqon30yT
Uber has appealed TfL's decision and will be allowed to operate normally during that process. On Oct. 3, the company's new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, who had already apologized to Londoners for "messing up," visited London to hold talks with the city's transit officials. In a tweet that same day, he said he was "determined to make things right in this great city!" TfL also released a statement on Tuesday characterizing the talks as "constructive" and said that more discussion would continue in the coming weeks.
The global versus local debate is hardly unique to Uber, but it exemplifies a common theme we heard over and again. None of these taxi drivers is angry at Uber's drivers; rather, their beef is with Uber as a company. George Vyse, who's been driving for 47 years and buying and selling used black cabs for 40 years, is outraged at how little Uber pays its drivers, describing it as "slave labor."
Black-cab drivers are self-employed, meaning they can keep all the money they earn from fares. Uber, on the other hand, takes up to 25 percent of every fare. The company doesn't openly speak about average earnings, but last year union GMB won a case against Uber because one driver was found to be earning less than minimum wage after the company had taken its cut. With a £2.60 flat-rate base fare for any cab ride, black-cab drivers need to pick up only three passengers an hour to earn the national minimum wage of £7.50.
The Great Suffolk Taxi cafe is completely unassuming, both inside and out.
Of all the people we spoke with, Vyse was the most vehemently opposed to Uber as a company, calling it "the cancer of trade" ("trade" is the term cabbies use for driving a taxi). In the window of his office -- a small trailer situated beside the cafe -- he proudly displays a cartoon depicting Calvin of "Calvin and Hobbes" fame urinating on the company's name. His objections? There's a whole list, top of which is the way he says Uber plays fast and loose with the safety of passengers by not conducting proper background checks on its drivers. (Uber has yet to respond to a request for comment.)
Along with enjoying a reputation for good chats and an encyclopedic knowledge of London, Vyse says black-cab drivers are highly trusted, with an unblemished safety record.
According to statistics from London's Metropolitan Police, 19 licensed private-hire drivers were investigated for sexual offenses in 2014, with five convictions. The following year, 28 private-hire drivers were investigated, with nine convictions. Since 2000, two black-cab drivers have been convicted of sexual offenses: John Warboys in 2009 and David Perry in 2015.
"If you take the majority of drivers out there, including me, we've done the job proper," says Vyse. "We abide by the rules and regulations." Leaning back in his chair, the slim-built Londoner, who looks much younger than his 78 years, peers at us pointedly through his clear-rimmed glasses. "You couldn't be any more straighter than George Vyse." 
George Vyse says taxi drivers have followed the rules. Uber, he says, should follow them as well.
The emergence of a couple of bad apples rocked the industry and caused upset among drivers, he added. But that's nothing compared with Uber's attitude to safety, which has resulted in widespread anger. He's seen more protests in the last two to three years by cabbies than in the 50 years preceding Uber's arrival in the city.
As for Uber, 32 of its drivers were accused of rape or sexual assault in the previous year alone, according to freedom of information data obtained by The Sun newspaper. Earlier this year, existing fears about Uber were exacerbated when the Metropolitan Police Force accused the company of failing to report sex attacks. Now TfL has piled on, accusing Uber of being careless with Londoners' safety by failing to institute proper background vetting.
A sign in Vyse's office makes his opinions on Uber perfectly clear.
Back inside the cafe, Day echoes Vyse's sentiments, albeit in a calmer tone. "Uber give the impression that they are reputable, safe, legitimate, when in fact they are in contravention of the regulations," he says. "There's a lot of anger there. It hasn't been directed at the drivers, I must say. ... They've just taken an opportunity."
Mick Smith, a driver for 28 years, was sitting at an adjacent table in the cafe, but he kept leaning in during our conversation to interject. After a few minutes, he moved over to join us. His major complaint? Uber's cheaper fares are possible only because it's a large company with deep pockets.
"The only reason Uber is cheap is because they have billions in investment," he says. "Uber is running at a loss because of it." (Uber reported a loss of $645 million in the second quarter of this year.)
I hate black cabs. Absolutely ripped off my parents 2 days ago coming from Stratford to my home. A £5 journey on Uber was £11. #saveuber
Uber and black cabs have different fare structures, but a six-mile ride across London lasting 30 minutes can be as much as £10 cheaper on Uber than with a taxi. Of course, prices vary widely depending on traffic conditions and time of day.
Some of Uber's nearly 850,000 customers who've signed a petition backing the company said it's the only form of transport they can afford. "Uber offers more value for money than any other," said petitioner Daniel Clover. "People have a right to choose."
"I have often experienced rude and expensive London cabbies but have always been treated courteously by the Uber drivers," said another, Yvonne White. "I know up front what it's going to cost, I don't need cash and I have a choice."
If cabbie opinions against Uber are varied, their ire against TfL is universal. The refusal to renew Uber's license is welcome, drivers say, but TfL should have been properly regulating the company in the first place. TfL declined to comment on whether it could have done more to regulate Uber in the past.
Once again, no one is more critical of TfL than Vyse, who's been an activist and a spokesperson for his colleagues in the trade for many years. "I suppose they'd call me a troublemaker," he says. "But I'm the kind of person who stands up for what I believe is right."
"It's careless that they have been allowed to operate," he adds. "The people, the body to blame is TfL ... not Uber, because TfL was licensing them." As he sees it, TfL gave in to political pressure by making room for Uber, but quickly got out of its depth as the company flouted regulation after regulation. "Uber is a monster that's out of control."
Paul Luchford, who's been driving for 15 years, agrees. "If Uber won't conform to the regulations," he says, "[TfL] is just as much to blame." The way he sees it, it's not just black-cab drivers who are suffering from the influx of Uber. "Uber aren't just undercutting us, they're undercutting the whole private-hire industry."
Uber drivers need to pass criminal background, English language and medical checks to secure a "private hire" license from TfL, but that license comes with fewer requirements than a license to drive a black cab. For example, though Uber drivers are tested on how to read a map, they don't have to learn The Knowledge, a 152-year-old system for memorizing every street and landmark in a six-mile area of central London.
Mick Smith defends The Knowledge and says Uber drivers aren't competing on an a level playing field.
The Knowledge requires drivers to be able to navigate between any two points in London without referring to a map or GPS. Learning The Knowledge can take two to four years, and drivers must pass a stringent exam administered by TfL. It's a grueling, demanding process, unmatched anywhere in the world.
"I'm upset because because what I had to go through now comes on your phone," Smith says. "It's not about competition, it's about going through the same process."
Despite his grievance, Smith is a staunch defender of The Knowledge. He says it always wins over GPS, because it forces him to rely on instinct and the map in his brain. He believes it's also safer because his eyes are on the road rather than on a screen.
"You always need a reference point beyond GPS," he says. "I'm not a slave to a screen."
Smith also believes that TfL handles passenger complaints unfairly. If a passenger complains about a black-cab driver, TfL typically follows up with the driver personally. But complaints against an Uber driver can be referred to the company instead.
Though Uber's fans in London have cited the ride-hailing service's embrace of technology as a reason they use it, the taxi industry is far from being a group of Luddites.
Thanks @TfL and @SadiqKhan for putting my dad out of business just because you don't like innovation. Get with the times! #uberlondon
The use of apps like Gett and MyTaxi to find passengers and process credit card payments is now widespread, and it started before Uber arrived. In 2011, a small group of taxi drivers co-founded Hailo, an app that lets people find taxis on their phone (MyTaxi absorbed it last year). Even if they use an app, TfL requires drivers to rent or buy credit machines for their taxis.
"[Apps] are a sign of the times, I accept that," Mark Thomson, a driver of 23 years, tells us while eating a plate of mushrooms and beans on toast. "I'll get work without them, so it's my choice to use them or not."
Some drivers even acknowledge that Uber's arrival in London has forced them to adapt for the better.
George Shipton, who's been driving for over 14 years, is determined not to let Uber ruin his livelihood -- in fact, he credits the company with forcing him to up his game. He adds to his income by allowing a high-end fashion brand to advertise on his cab. He's also a registered London tour guide. "I diversified," Shipton says. "I made a personal decision. My decision is to come out fine. It's all I've ever known. It's how I've always been."
If your cab is dirty, you can have it washed while you're getting some lunch.
Last year, Day and seven other drivers even started their own ride-hailing app, called TaxiApp. Unlike Gett and MyTaxi, which are largely funded by investors outside of London, TaxiApp is owned and operated solely by local drivers.
That means passenger fares go directly into the driver's pocket, and the app keeps the money circulating in the local economy, says Day, who serves as TaxiApp's communications manager. Also, because Taxiapp's fares are based on the meter rather than on a fixed price, passengers will experience a transparent payment system without surcharges. 
"We don't see the other [ride-hailing] apps as being too different from Uber," Day says. "They are corporations with bottom lines that go to shareholders. TaxiApp is owned, run by and financed by drivers."
Day says more than 1,500 drivers now use the app. They must pay £5 per week to be a member, but TaxiApp doesn't take a commission from passenger fares.
Ask Vyse if he'd put money on Uber failing to win its appeal to get its license renewed. "I believe they will, and I hope I'm right, sincerely," he says. "I'll be very very upset if I'm wrong. They can't put it right. They're now grovelling: 'Mr Mayor, what do you want us to do? We'll bend over backwards.' A bit too late now, isn't it?"
For his part, London Mayor Sadiq Khan has TfL's back and defended the regulatory body's decision on multiple occasions, including in an op-ed for the Guardian last month. He also criticized Uber for being "aggressive" in its response to TfL's decision, reminding the public that the company has an army of PR people and lawyers at its disposal.
Providing an innovative service must not be at the expense of Londoners safety. My response to @TfL's Uber decision. https://t.co/iEUal9VLU3 pic.twitter.com/B9V0mEKrWr
The fight isn't over, though. Uber has many supporters on its side, including politicians and the Londoners who've signed that petition for the company to be allowed to stay.
Some petitioners have acknowledged that Uber can improve to build passenger trust.
"[Uber] provides a very efficient and cheap service which is a great alternative to other modes of transport," wrote David Maclure. "The drivers do however need to be checked out more thoroughly for driving competency and the security of passengers."
Sasha Simmons argues that Uber needs to provide a safer environment for women passengers.
But even if Uber is forced out of the city, US rival Lyft is reportedly eyeing a UK expansion, which means another ride-hailing app ready to step into its shoes. How would Vyse feel about that?
He's pragmatic. "We can't take everybody on. I mean, there's so many people out there now," he says, in reference to passengers. "But if a company comes in, it's got to be controlled like we're controlled."
Many of those we asked about Lyft seemed similarly open to the company's potential presence in London -- at least in theory -- while some called for a cap on the number of drivers.
"Nature abhors a vacuum and I think someone else would come in," says Shipton. "What needs changing, and it needs changing for us as well, is there needs to be a ceiling of numbers." London's streets are already "creaky" with the number of cars they must bear, he added. From 2015 to 2017, 108,700 new taxis and private-hire vehicles, including Uber drivers, received licenses in London, a 27 percent increase over the previous two-year period.
@TfL - @Uber is the one part of my journey that is cheap, reliable and available 24/7. Ridiculous decision. #saveuber
The taxi drivers we spoke with agree that better and more consistent enforcement of regulations is the best way to reconcile the rifts across the industry.
They also recognize that not every driver in London can be a black-cab driver -- the difficulty of passing The Knowledge sees to that. Taxi drivers also must buy or rent a black cab, and they pay more fees than Uber drivers (£1,023 vs £438) to initially acquire their license.  London's cabbies proudly boast they're the best in the world and they want to remain so -- not instead of technology, but in spite of it.
"We've got to be careful because -- never forget the reason why we've got London cabs in the first place," says Shipton, referring to why The Knowledge was created. "It's because cab drivers were getting lost at the Great Exhibition in 1851. They couldn't find Hyde Park," he says, pausing to laugh. "Much like Uber cabs can't find it now."


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Their owners prefer iPhones?
What does your choice of smart speaker say about you? 
Other than you have little regard for your own privacy, that is.
If you choose a Google Home speaker, does that mean you drift Android-ward? And what if you bought an Amazon Echo?
Well, let me me tell you. I have just been made smarter by a piece of research from securities intelligence consultancy Consumer Intelligence Research Partners. 
It chatted with 300 Amazon Echo and Google Home owners between July 11 and 27.
It concluded that those who own an Echo -- which reminds me of the result of an ill-starred relationship between an air-purifier and a lipstick -- have a penchant for Cupertino.
Of those surveyed, 55 percent of Echo users have an iPhone. The remainder have Android. Conversely, 75 percent of those who bought the oversized salt cellar known as Google Home are committed to Android phones. 
Josh Lowitz, partner and co-founder of CIRP, insisted in a press release that the proportion of iPhone owners among Echo users was higher than the phone's share of the US market. That stands at roughly 34 percent.
As for the proportion of Android users among Home owners, that was merely consistent with Android's share of the US phone market, he said. (Numbers vary as to how big Android's share is. Some place it at around the 55 percent mark.)
Lowitz didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
When it comes to tablets, Echo owners also skew toward Apple, says the research. 49 percent have an iPad, while 25 percent own an Amazon Fire tablet.
It's easy, but perhaps not best, to draw deep conclusions from these numbers. Yes, it appears that the Echo has sold better to iPhone owners than to Android owners, which might, indeed, be expected. There are, though, far more Echos out there, a situation that Google's presentation today of new Home devices attempted to redress.
In recent research, CIRP estimated that Amazon had sold three times as many Echos as Google had sold Homes.
Still, Lowitz himself admitted that it was early in the proceedings. 
"Even though Amazon has sold 15 million Echo devices, Apple has an installed base of over 140 million iPhones in the US, so Echo hasn't penetrated deeply into the iPhone ownership group," he said. "Yet, this initial data suggests that Amazon has gained a meaningful foothold among Apple's US customer base."
What will happen, though, when Apple's HomePod comes along in December? It retails at a far higher price -- $349 -- than do Amazon's devices. 
Does that mean iPhone owners will immediately express loyalty and throw their cheap Echos away? 
Well, surely.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Does it call to you? Do you have clothes to model?
Did you, an iPhone aficionado, look at the Pixel 2 and salivate?
Please don't worry. There's an ad for that.
No sooner had Google released its new Pixel 2 phone than it uploaded a video to show how easy it is to switch.
It doesn't, oddly, show a slightly gauche tech type talking you through the motions, as if you were thoroughly halfwitted.
Instead, here's YouTuber Weylie in a remarkably, well, tight video that preaches the power of change.
The Pixel 2 is, it seems, change you can believe in. 
Weylie changes things in her life all the time. It's all about keeping things new and fresh, apparently.
The change is, she insists, "super smooth," as long as you follow her steps. 
Honestly, it's so smooth that Weylie has time to freshen up her makeup and even model a few clothes along the way. 
Oddly, her iPhone has a matching white case. Slightly froufrou, if I may say so. Does this mean it's, well, hers? I daren't ask.
She's certainly very au fait with its operations, as she instructs you to turn off FaceTime and iMessage and unencrypt everything -- especially any work elements that happen to be inserted on your phone.
Changing operating systems has always seemed like a painful idea to me. For its part, Apple insists that switching from Android to iPhone is as easy as walking from one side of a TV screen to another.
Still, if Pixel 2 had moved me to rapture -- with, for example, its new wireless headphones on a string that simultaneously translate when Japanese people are swearing at you -- then you could find a much worse instructor than Weylie.
On the other hand, I fancy one or two people might worry about the fact that the video is vertical. 
Oh, didn't you know? That's an example of change. Vertical is the new, new thing.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. 


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
A touch on the creepy side?
Stop me if you've heard this one before.
Lifelogging, surveillance and self-obsession walk into a bar....
Oh, you watched the Google show on Wednesday too, did you?
I was moved by many things in it. The hairs on the top of my back, however, were oddly made erect by something called Google Clips.
At first, my hairs thought this was a new trimmer. For, you know, the hairs themselves. 
It turns out, however, that it's tiny camera that you carry around, clip to things -- or even lie on the floor -- and hope it captures you in memorable unguarded moments. 
Because, of course, you've always regretted not having someone record your charming scratching, nose-picking and Corn Flakes chomping.
One ad for the Clips demands that you "be in the moment." But how can you do that when you know there's a camera watching your every, um, moment?
Worse -- or, more delightful, depending on your perspective -- this camera has a mind of its own. It uses a machine-learning algorithm called Moment IQ to "automatically" determine what photos you want taken. 
Yes, it's a wedding photographer for your whole life. Or something that will capture certain times you definitely don't want captured and helpfully -- and automatically -- send them off to your phone. 
The ad, however, doesn't seem to show too many natural moments. Instead, we get a child hamming it up for the camera and a family seeming to pose for pictures. In a natural, unguarded way, of course.
But Google doesn't stop there. 
It's released another ad that encourages you to "get creative with Google Clips." Which is odd, as it seems to be that Google Clips is perfectly capable of being creative all on its own.
Still, here you're told to "get close to your subject" and then "put Google Clips somewhere fun." 
Your definition of "somewhere fun" might be different from, say, other people's. Or even kids'. Which might make for some interesting surveillance experiments on the part of every member of your family.
Yes, an LED light flashes when it's on.
But there are quite a few gadgets around the house that do that, ones that you're oblivious to. 
The idea, Google says, is to "get a fresh angle on things."
Google declined to comment. I understand, however, that the company believes it has been thoughtful about the privacy aspects. The device only records 7-second clips, isn't capable of long-distance shooting and anything it shoots stays on the phone.
Hasn't technology, though, already given us enough opportunities for fresh angles? It seems not. You must seek to discover more of yourself -- and a lot more of other people -- and perhaps even project it all into the world. 
Oddly, I can't help thinking that this is gorgeous reverse psychology. Google's whole ethos actually involves getting every possible angle on you. 
Still, it's fascinating that it believes families will be desperate to capture these alleged moments with their tiny, mute GoPro that's the result of a brief relationship with a surveillance camera. 
But what if it captures mommy kissing Santa Claus? 
Wait, that's not Santa Claus?
Updated 6:05 p.m. PT: Adds response from Google.


Alphabet's Sidewalk Labs is reportedly negotiating to build a digital-city project along 12 acres of Toronto waterfront property,
A unit of Google parent company Alphabet is nearing a deal to develop a high-tech urban space on Toronto's waterfront, according to a report Wednesday by The Wall Street Journal.
Alphabet's Sidewalk Labs would direct development of the so-called digital-city project, which would be located on a 12-acre section of Toronto's eastern waterfront, the Journal reported. Specific plans and cost weren't available, but the project is expected to win approval this month from the board of Waterfront Toronto, the agency that oversees city development along the shore of Lake Ontario, according to the report.
Google declined to a comment on the report.
Alphabet created Sidewalk Labs in 2015 with the goal of making cities function better. The startup is focused on developing technology around urban living, like how to make transportation more efficient and how to reduce energy use.
The startup is led by Dan Doctoroff, former CEO of Bloomberg and deputy mayor of economic development and rebuilding for the City of New York.
Google has become increasingly ambitious about expanding its scope of products beyond its juggernaut search engine. Its search and advertising business is still the most dominant in the world, making more than $50 billion a year. But as the Internet evolves, co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin have been looking to where future revenue streams will come from. The company has made big bets on everything from smartphones to wearable devices to driverless cars.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.


If you watched Google's Pixel 2 event, you may have noticed something other than just the launch of several new gadgets: the presence of more female presenters.
Four, to be exact.
That's not to say the bar was set particularly high in previous years -- at last year's Pixel event, there were two female presenters -- but it signals that Google is starting to "walk the walk" when it comes to boosting representation of women. At this year's Google I/O, there were also four female presenters, up one from 2015 and 2016, and double the number from 2013 and 2014.
There were six male presenters at Wednesday's Pixel event.
Isabelle Olsson, Google's lead designer for home hardware, was one of four women presenters at Google's Pixel event on Wednesday.   
Earlier this year, Google was embroiled in controversy after former company engineer James Damore wrote a manifesto arguing that women are underrepresented in tech because of "biological causes" rather than bias and discrimination. Silicon Valley companies, largely dominated by white men, have long grappled with the issue of diversity. Former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick was ousted in June following an internal investigation of sexual harassment allegations, and in July, venture capitalists including Dave McClure of 500 Startups admitted to behaving inappropriately toward women.  
The presenters at Wednesday's Pixel event included Isabelle Olsson, lead designer for home hardware; Sabrina Ellis, senior director of product management; Aparna Chennapragada, product director; and Nest CTO Yoky Matsuoka.
Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Everything Google just announced: Every story from today's event.  


CNET has a large quantity of quality audio podcasts. This feed makes it easy for you to subscribe to all of them with one simple subscription.
Hosted by: CNET Editors


From industry news to techy trends to newsmaker interviews, no technology angle is too small or obscure to explore. Our reporters take you there in this video series that aims to bring you even closer to the tech news you find daily on CNET News.
Hosted by: CNET Editors


Show Notes:
Google, with new Pixel and camera, is serious about devices
Pixel 2, XL hands-on: Squeezable sides, no headphone jack
BTW, the Pixel 2 won't even come with free headphones
Pixelbook Chromebook is Google's new convertible laptop
Pixel Buds: $159 wireless headphones do real-time translation
Google Pixel 2 vs. iPhone 8, Samsung Galaxy S8 and LG G6 (SPECS)
Google Home Max: Google debuts its premium smart home speaker
Google Home Mini is official, takes on Amazon's Echo Dot
Google Pixel 2, Pixel 2 XL: How to preorder the new phones now
SOCIAL NETWORKING:
Tweet at Brian Tong
Tweet to Stephen Beacham
Tweet to Patrick Holland
Tweet to Vanessa Hand Orellana


As I looked into the eye of the bright pink giant grizzly bear, I knew this wasn't a normal phone launch event.
Google has just taken the wraps off its brand new Pixel 2 phone and new additions to its smart home lineup in San Francisco. (Here's literally everything Google announced.) But I was following the news from a "satellite" event in London. 
And it was quite a different experience than what the world was streaming from California.















Sundar Pichai, Google's CEO, kicked off the event with a statement for the victims affected by the mass shooting in Las Vegas.
Google is thinking of victims in Las Vegas but keeping quiet on accidentally spreading fake news about the mass shooting.
At Google's event in San Francisco on Wednesday, CEO Sundar Pichai opened with a statement on Las Vegas.
"Our hearts and prayers are with the victims," he said on stage. Pichai didn't mention anything about failing to stop fake news about the shooting from showing up in Google search results.
Google was criticized after the search engine surfaced a 4Chan thread accusing the wrong person of being the gunman behind Monday's mass shooting in Las Vegas. This comes about six months after Google pledged to fight fake news with tools like its "fake check" tags and tweaks to its search results.
Internet trolls and wannabe sleuths originally pinned the deadliest mass shooting in US history on a person named Geary Danley, and Google's algorithm picked up the internet chatter. It placed a  /pol/ thread from the 4Chan site as one of the top news stories if you searched the name.
But Geary Danley wasn't the gunman. Police identified the shooter as Stephen Paddock. Fake news surrounding the shooting rapidly spread across platforms like Facebook and Twitter, and Google's algorithm fell victim to the plague of hoaxes.
In a statement on Monday, Google said it was looking further into the issue and that its algorithm had messed up when it linked the 4Chan thread. It's unclear why the search engine even considered the forum a news source.
"Unfortunately, early this morning we were briefly surfacing an inaccurate 4chan website in our Search results for a small number of queries," Google said in its statement. "Within hours, the 4chan story was algorithmically replaced by relevant results. This should not have appeared for any queries, and we'll continue to make improvements to prevent this from happening in the future."
Google Pixel 2 event live: Watch the livestream of Google's press conference
Everything Google just announced: Every story from today's event  


Update: The event has ended. Here's everything Google announced, along with all of our followup coverage.
Apple unveiled its new iPhones on Sept. 12. Last week, Amazon surprised us with five new Echo products.  
Now, it's Google's turn.
WHEN: Today, Wednesday, Oct. 4, 9 a.m. PT; 12 noon ET; 5 p.m. UK; 3 a.m. (Thursday) Sydney -- or see the start time in your time zone. CNET's preshow with Brian Tong, Patrick Holland and Lexy Savvides starts 30 minutes earlier.
WHERE: San Francisco, California
WHAT TO EXPECT: Quite a bit, actually. According the flood of leaks in recent weeks, we'll be getting:
See our full preview of what to expect.
HOW TO WATCH: Right here! Just sit back and watch the stream (at the top of the page).
FOR MORE INFORMATION: See all of CNET's Google coverage.


Melinda Gates spoke about diversity in tech.
The next Bill Gates might not look anything like Bill Gates -- and probably shouldn't.
That was one of Melinda Gates' key messages as she spoke at the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing conference, a three-day conference that brings together thousands of students and professionals to hear speakers and attend session both focused on professional development and straightforward tech topics like open source computing and software engineering.
"Not every good idea comes in a hoodie," she told the crowd during Wednesday's opening keynote.
She joked that tech is often seen as a sea of white dudes, and then showed a slide with a grid filled with her husband's face to laughter from the audience.
Gates started working at Microsoft back in 1987. These days she's a high-profile philanthropist. While much of her work is as part of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, last September, she also launched an independent initiative focused on women in tech. She's been vocal about the importance of things like mentorship for women, and even the impact the gender imbalance in tech could have on developing technologies like artificial intelligence.    
On Wednesday, she put the onus on the attendees, issuing a call for those in the audience to commit to helping 10 women get into or stay in tech. It's going to take opening the floodgates, she said, to create a diverse and dynamic industry.
It's an important time for tech to get more diverse. She talked about the need for having a wide range of people influence the next generation of tech like artificial intelligence. Those systems tend to reflect the people who create them, so the more different perspectives that are fed in, the more effective AI can be.
Gates also talked about the amount of coverage the lack of diversity in tech has gotten in recent times -- it can be demoralizing for girls getting into the industry; she even made a quick reference to ex-Googler James Damore's memo which posited that women are biologically unsuited for tech.
"Who says 'sign me up for that?'" she said.
But sometimes bad news is good news. "We're finally seeing consequences for bad behavior," she said. 
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


Amazon staff go about their day.
European regulators have slapped Amazon with a bill for 250 million euros (about £220 million, $294 million or AU$370 million) in unpaid taxes. 
The online giant was found by the European Commission to have an illegal deal with Luxembourg since 2003, which allowed the US company to move money between its subsidiaries so profits were taxed there instead of a country with a higher corporate rate. 
"Almost three quarters of Amazon's profits were not taxed," said European Commissioner Margrethe Vestager in an official statement. "Amazon was allowed to pay four times less tax than other local companies subject to the same national tax rules. This is illegal under EU State aid rules. Member States cannot give selective tax benefits to multinational groups that are not available to others."
An Amazon spokesperson told CNET the company disputes the allegation of special treatment from Luxembourg, and will consider an appeal.
Amazon shouldn't have any problem stumping up the cash, having turned over revenue of $35.7 billion in the first quarter of 2017 alone.
The ruling is the latest example of European watchdogs going after tax avoidance by US companies.Last year, for instance, Apple was told to pay a whopping 13 billion euros in back taxes. That's around £11 billion, $14.5 billion or AU$18 billion. 
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet?



In the near future, we'll be paying for goods and services with our phones rather than our credit cards, says a report from the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).
In 2014, 51 percent of payments in developed countries were made with credit cards. However, that number is expected to dip to 46 percent in 2019 as advances in technology will make it easier for people to pay for things with their phones.  This won't apply to developing nations, where cash is still the preferred choice.
In places like Egypt, e-commerce purchases are still cash-on-delivery. But Kenya, which has seen a rise in mobile payments, still defaults to cash. However, a recent global survey by the UNCTAD found that those in Kenya say mobile payments are their preferred choice for online transactions.
And if you're wondering what it'd be like to rely only on mobile payments, China is looking to be the technology's shining beacon. The country has embraced services such as WeChat Pay and Alipay, with the latter used by 68 percent of online shoppers. Both services have handled close to $3 trillion in 2016, according to TechCrunch.
In the future, blockchain technology will be used for cross-border payments, which may help ease expensive transaction fees from banks to boot, as these services are peer-to-peer, secure and less expensive. That said, it's not the preferred choice yet, but the report notes that improvements to security and the size of the minimum transaction will cause adoption to increase.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.
Does the Mac still matter? Apple execs explain why the MacBook Pro was over four years in the making, and why we should care.


Disney CEO Robert Iger speaks onstage at the Vanity Fair New Establishment Summit on Tuesday. 
Disney is moving forward in its mission to launch new subscription services starting next year. 
The company said in August that movies from Walt Disney Studios and Pixar will no longer be available on Netflix starting in 2019 because of its own upcoming service. It also said an ESPN-branded video-streaming service will launch in 2018. This comes as cable TV sees falling subscriptions and people's watching habits continually shift in the age of new media.
Chairman and CEO Robert Iger said Tuesday that accepting these permanent changes in viewing habits helped drive Disney's decision. He was interviewed on stage by Vanity Fair special correspondent Nick Bilton at the magazine's New Establishment Summit in Los Angeles. 
"At some point, we felt it would be necessary for us to not only be disrupted, but to disrupt our business ourselves," Iger said. "We felt that we were no longer seeing a speed bump of disruption ... What we were seeing instead was real, profound and permanent change."
Iger said the mobile-friendly sports product, which will likely launch in the spring, will have 10,000 extra live sporting events. Viewers can purchase a monthly subscription to access them.
"Eventually, that app may possibly become the only way you watch ESPN," Iger said.
The Disney-branded movie product will feature Disney, Pixar, Star Wars and Marvel films. The company will also make original films for the platform that won't be released in theaters. 
As part of the reveal of these services earlier this year, Disney also said it had acquired majority ownership of streaming video and internet services company BAMTech.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.


If you're not into Snap's Spectacles, don't give up on the company's creations just yet. 
There'll be more to come from Snap on the hardware front, said co-founder and CEO Evan Spiegel on Tuesday at Vanity Fair's New Establishment Summit in Los Angeles.   
"Hardware is going to be an important vehicle for delivering our customer experience, maybe in a decade. But if we believe that it's going to be important in a decade, we don't want to be starting a decade from now," Spiegel said. "We took that first initial leap with Spectacles, and we're excited to see where it goes from here."
Spectacles, which are glasses embedded with a camera, flopped in sales in the second quarter at $5.4 million, compared to more than $8 million in sales in the first quarter. Those sales represented about 0.02 percent of Snap's 143 million daily active users. But Spiegel said Spectacles "outsold our expectations."
"We're just beginning to dabble in hardware," he added.
Spiegel also announced an art collaboration with Jeff Koons, in which users can see Koons' sculptures through new Snapchat Lenses. These virtual art exhibits are landing in parks and landmarks across the US, Canada, the UK, Paris, Australia and Brazil starting Tuesday, according to Snapchat. More locations will follow.
Snapchat launched the Lenses feature, which adds real-time special effects and sounds to what's normally seen through a camera, around two years ago. The feature has also been used with advertisers and brands like Bud Light, where a vendor appears and offers users a can of beer.
Spiegel also backed the company's decision to go public earlier this year.
"Going public was really the right thing for the company, and certainly the right thing for the time," he said. "We saw a tremendous benefit to transitioning our investor base from short-term venture investors to long-term investors." 
Snap faces stark competition from Facebook and its photo sharing app, Instagram. In August, Snap said it had 173 million total users, while Instagram announced its Stories platform had 250 million daily users.
Spiegel was careful in answering a question on how "obsessed" he is with Facebook from moderator Walter Isaacson, president and CEO of The Aspen Institute.
"What we found by focusing relentlessly on empowering creativity is that our customers tend to show us what's next, our customers show us what they want," Speigel said. "That's how I think we've been able to deliver the future to so many of our customers."
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.


Dropbox's logo is changing. Kinda.
What do you do when Steve Jobs says you're destined to fail?
That's what Dropbox co-founder Drew Houston had to answer after meeting Apple's co-founder seven years ago.
Houston's startup made waves when he unveiled his storage service in 2008, offering a dead-simple way to upload and save your files in the cloud and then synchronize them between your computers. At 27, he was talking to the most influential name in tech -- and his own personal hero.
"It was an interesting conversation because he said he liked our products," Houston (pronounced "how-stun") later recounted to Forbes. "I can't think of much higher praise than that."
But Apple's co-founder wasn't convinced Dropbox was destined for success. Jobs wanted to buy the company, likely to integrate it with Apple's own forthcoming file-syncing service.
Jobs declared Dropbox to be a "feature, not a product." Or, put another way, Jobs believed Dropbox didn't have a future as a standalone company. Houston said no thanks.
Since then, Houston and his team have been trying to prove Jobs wrong.
They've added more than a dozen features, including specialized photo storage and document editing. They've made it so apps can connect with Dropbox to store and sync files across devices. And they've worked to become even more attractive to businesses by making it easier for teams of people to share files.
So far, Dropbox has convinced more than 500 million people and 200,000 businesses to sign up. The question is, how many people are paying for its service? A privately held company, Dropbox won't say how many people pay. And unless it tells us, it's nearly impossible to know.
Dropbox, like most web companies, gives away a limited free version of its service when you just sign up. Over time, the company hopes you'll come to rely on its offerings, at which point you may decide to pay more (starting at $10 per month for individuals and $25 per person per month for teams) to store additional files.
Even so, all those people using Dropbox helped turn it into one of the first and largest Silicon Valley unicorns, or companies valued at more than $1 billion -- on paper, at least. For Dropbox, that happened in 2011, when investors valued it at $4 billion, according to CrunchBase.
Dropbox seemed on its way to becoming one of the great tech success stories, complete with a future that included a high-profile initial public offering beneath the ringing bell of Wall Street.
"They had the market cornered," said Brian Blau, an analyst at Gartner.
But it hasn't happened. All those years after meeting Jobs, Dropbox is still a private company. Its value, which zoomed up to $10 billion in 2014, hasn't changed. Bloomberg reported in August that Dropbox's financials may not justify that value when the company eventually begins selling public shares, something that could happen in the not-too-distant future. According to Bloomberg, Houston was preparing to file paperwork to begin that process.
Dropbox said in January that it's on track to tally $1 billion in sales this year, more than the nearly $400 million its already-public competitor Box tallied last year.
Houston, now 34, hopes that data point, among others, will make Dropbox a compelling buy for Wall Street. "Warren Buffett better be able to look at our business and say, 'This lemonade stand makes money,'" Houston told Bloomberg.
As for getting you and me to use Dropbox and pay for it? Houston has a plan for that, sort of. After years of working to come up with new and innovative ideas, Dropbox is now trying something else: an artsy rebranding campaign.
Starting Tuesday the San Francisco company freshened its look with new colors, different fonts and a flattened version of its storage box-like logo. Ultimately, the company is hoping to help remind people there's more to it than the free syncing service they signed up for and maybe rely on for work. It's also to remind them that Dropbox is more than just an always-there "feature," as Jobs put it so dismissively.
Dropbox now wants to be known as a place for creativity as well. Whether it will or not remains to be seen.
Drew Houston in 2015.
The reasons why Dropbox's efforts have only whelmed us so far are hard to pinpoint. One answer may be that Houston and co-founder Arash Ferdowsi caught lightning in a bottle with their original file-syncing service. The result is that stuff they've done to expand beyond the core Dropbox service since seems just OK by comparison.
Meanwhile, companies including Google, Apple and Amazon are treading on Dropbox's turf, offering file-syncing services of their own. Google has Google Drive, Apple has iCloud, Microsoft has OneDrive and Amazon has Amazon Drive. "The strategy today is for tech companies to be strategically diverse," Blau said. It's "been kind of a one-product company."
Dropbox declined to make executives available for comment.
Bring up Dropbox in Silicon Valley and you'll hear that almost everyone has used it. But the next thing tech followers -- and rivals -- will call out is that Steve Jobs quote. I asked Aaron Levie, CEO of business-focused rival Box, what he thought about it.
"Steve was 100 percent right when referring to the idea of accessing files on multiple devices," says Levie.
What's kept these companies from being eaten up by larger competitors has been their ability to offer better features, like increased security, while providing an easy-as-pie service.
"To Dropbox's credit on the consumer side, what they've done really well is great product execution," Levie acknowledges.
That excellent experience is what helped Dropbox make a splash when it was announced. 
Back then, there were other apps out there including SugarSync and Box (which started two years before Dropbox). But Houston sold Dropbox as a simple way to access your files from whatever computer you were working on.
"It just works," he said in a YouTube video introducing the service. In the video tour lasting less than five minutes, he showed how, after installing his app, any file placed in a folder called "My Dropbox" on one computer could be quickly synchronized over the internet with the same folder on another computer.
"They've come up with an online storage product that I might actually use regularly," TechCrunch said at the time. Ars Technica declared, "Dropbox ended my search for seamless sync." Michael Lopp, a popular webcomic author and software development blogger, asked "Is it magic?" (Yes, he concluded.)
I started using Dropbox as soon as I heard it was available. Over the years, it's served as the lifeboat Houston was thinking of when he came up with the idea after forgetting a thumb-drive filled with important files while on a trip.
I've used it to ferry files back and forth from work, to share pictures with friends, and to synchronize edits for my Status Update podcast about how tech is changing how new parents think about raising our kids.
Silicon Valley's money makers were quick to see its potential. Just two months after Dropbox launched its service, it got a stamp of approval from one of tech's best-known venture firms, Sequoia Capital, which led an early investment round of $6 million in November 2008.
A year later, Houston, known for his calm and quiet demeanor, was invited to Apple's headquarters for that meeting with Jobs -- where he turned down an acquisition offer (for an undisclosed amount) from one of the industry's most revered leaders.
For the next few years, Houston and his team tried to turn Dropbox into something more. People in Houston's orbit at the time said he was determined to create features that would attract even more people, even as Microsoft and Google began nipping at his company's heels.
Mailbox's innovative swiping feature made it an instant hit among the technorati.
For three years starting in 2012, Dropbox bought or released products that were tangentially connected to its syncing service. First, it began offering to automatically backup photos and videos from tablets, camera cards and phones for free. Then, it spent a rumored $100 million to buy a popular email program for phones called Mailbox, further pushing itself into the consumer tech world.
In 2014, its photo storage service morphed into a free new offering called Carousel, which synchronized photos and videos from tablets, camera storage cards and phones.
But by 2015, Dropbox was throwing in the towel on both Carousel and Mailbox. By way of explanation for ditching them, Houston wrote in a blog post at the time that "over the past few months, we've increased our team's focus on collaboration and simplifying the way people work together." Translation: It's no longer worth the investment, and we're going to focus on more lucrative business customers and other projects.
While many things likely led to these projects' demise, some people who worked with Houston say one of the problems was his personality.
But it's hard to get a bead on just how Houston operates. One former employee says the CEO, who cofounded the company in 2007 with fellow MIT student Ferdowsi, often asked for feedback. But others described him as sticking to his guns rather than considering various points of view -- a trait you'd expect to see at times from a headstrong entrepreneurial founder. One of his favorite books is, "Only the Paranoid Survive," by Andy Grove, who co-founded the chipmaking giant Intel.
Compare that to someone like Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Though he's often portrayed as robotic and emotionally withdrawn, people who've worked for him say his success comes in part from changing his mind after input and debate. (To be sure, Zuckerberg has also chased techno-dead ends, including projects like building a Facebook phone and using unpolished web technologies to build early versions of his mobile app, which made it slow and buggy for years.)
While Dropbox toiled on photos and email, larger competitors were muscling into the syncing game. One of the biggest is Apple, which revamped its iCloud file sync and storage service just before Jobs died in 2011. Google debuted its free Google Drive file service in 2012, complete with a Dropbox-like file sync app for your phone or computer. And there's Microsoft, whose OneDrive is now built into its Windows software that powers hundreds of millions of PCs; Amazon, which offers file storage through its $99 per year Prime subscription; and business-oriented Box, which has focused on features like security.
That's led to an interesting problem. All these companies offer a small amount of storage for free, to get people hooked, just like Dropbox. And while businesses like travel site Expedia, the Sundance Institute and ice cream maker Ben & Jerry's, use Dropbox in their offices, TECHnalysis Research founder Bob O'Donnell said many people switch between the free versions of different services to avoid paying for any of them.
That includes O'Donnell himself, who uses Dropbox to shuttle around files too large to send in an email, but doesn't pay the company a dime.
"That's pretty much what I use it for," he said.
One of Dropbox's artsy marketing animations for Paper, before Tuesday's new campaign.
Ahead of Dropbox's new marketing efforts Tuesday, it published a couple ads on Facebook to drum up attention. But, like many of Dropbox's non-sync efforts, the ads didn't entirely make sense.
The marketing push was for a product called Paper, which was released in 2015. It's designed to help you easily create and share documents and ideas. If that sounds familiar, it's probably because Google Docs, one of its many competitors, had been available for a decade at that point, doing a similar thing. There's also Google Keep, Microsoft OneNote, Evernote and Box Notes.
"We have a single-minded focus, and that is to simplify the way people work with collaboration," said Tony Ward, Dropbox's manager for Australia and New Zealand, in an interview with The Australian Financial Review Monday.
One of the ads uploaded last month was a series of blue-shaded fractals moving in space. Another was a looping video of a man playing a standing drum set. Both had the tagline, "Dropbox Paper. A new type of doc designed for ideas of all kinds. #CreateTogether."
If that seems a little fuzzy, you're not the only one who thinks so.
"Their ads make no sense. I have no idea what it is," wrote one Facebook user identifying herself as Jennifer Jean, who was among the nearly 900,000 people who saw either ad. "I don't get this," wrote another user, Jonny Sayeth. "So… its [sic] just Google docs?"
Dropbox is hoping its new branding efforts will underscore the idea of people working together. One way is through bringing together colors that seem like they clash, such as violet and mint.
"The overarching [idea of this brand] is by bringing two unexpected things together, and you get an interesting, extraordinary thing together," Dropbox Creative Director Aaron Robbs told Fast Company. "When you get two people working together ... how does that play in the [brand] system?"
I don't really get it either.
Still, the company released a new modern-art-inspired marketing video, asking questions like "What does #CreativeEnergy mean?"
Hopefully for Dropbox, we'll find out soon.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


With technology increasingly intertwined with all aspects of business, CNET@Work can help you -- from prosumers to small businesses with fewer than five employees -- get started.
When Saks Fifth Avenue agreed to stock coats and blazers made by startup Norwegian Wool, founder Michael Berkowitz needed to create a booklet to educate the big retailer's salespeople about the new line.
"Saks gets in brands all the time and so you need to set yourself apart," said Berkowitz, who left a career on Wall Street to start his New York-based company in 2014. "We wanted this to be good."
But Norwegian Wool didn't have that kind of in-house talent, so Berkowitz decided to outsource the work to a freelance designer based overseas.
"You can find really good design work using contractors," said Berkowitz, who was pleased with the results. "There are lots of them out there who just prefer to work as freelancers."
And there are a lot of businesses interested in going that route.
One recent study found that about one-third of US companies last year used freelancers while more than half intend to hire additional freelancers in 2017. In the much-chronicled era of the gig economy, it's now relatively easy to find people willing to work on a short-term basis.
Contract work also offers the chance to size up potential team members before making any longer-term financial commitments.
"We often start people out as contractors and work with them for a year or so to get a feel for whether or not they are a good fit for employment," noted Tim Hamilton founder and CEO of Praxent, a software and web development firm in Austin, Texas.
Anna Brockway, co-founder and CMO of Chairish.
It also helps avoid hiring mistakes.
"I've found that no matter how good of a recruiter you are, you are going to make some hiring mistakes," said Anna Brockway, the co-founder and CMO of Chairish, a San Francisco-based online curated marketplace for vintage furniture and décor. "Maybe the person oversold their skills, or perhaps they are simply not a cultural fit. Working with potential new hires on a short-term, independent contractor project first can be a great way to validate your hiring assumptions."
At the same time, the organization is not on the hook for paying out health benefits, payroll taxes, severance packages or unemployment insurance to contractors.
But if your company is growing to the point where it needs freelance help, be aware of the potential pitfalls. Consider the experience of Max Agrad, who started Voxel Worlds, a developer of virtual reality mobile applications for the real estate industry.
Agrad relied initially on contractors but came to regret the decision after encountering some who overstated their qualifications or turned out to be frauds. He recalled emailing with a mobile developer in Singapore, asking the candidate to share samples of his virtual reality work. Instead, the developer sent back a video where he was filmed using an app that was made by another company.
A worker cannot be both an employee and an independent contractor at the same company. They are one or the other; they cannot be both. Unfortunately, there is no single test for determining whether a person actually is an employee or independent contractor. For instance, the IRS uses a 20-factor test for determining worker status, including things like the amount of training and instructions someone receives, the number of set hours of work and where the work takes place. Even then, the line sometimes gets blurred. In fact, the US Labor Department has estimated that up to 30 percent of companies misclassify their employees. In certain cases, that's due to honest mistakes and confusion about the law; in others, business owners are trying to evade regulations such as the minimum wage or the payment of unemployment insurance taxes for full-time employees. But it's not worth trying to get cute with the IRS by classifying certain employees as contractors. You may be trying to save a few dollars but you risk opening a Pandora's box of trouble with the government. 
Obviously, the question of freelance versus full-time ultimately boils down to choices that vary by company and industry. At Cinch Financial, for example, the Boston-based software startup roughly doubled its headcount to 40 in the last year. Over that time, it applied different hiring strategies to fit its different business needs, according to Kerri Moriarty, who heads company development.
"For example, we generally seek to hire engineers as full-time employees," Moriarty said. "We know we have a long-term evolving need for those roles and it gives us a better return on investment to bring them on as full-time from the start. In other areas, we get more value from independent contractors, particularly for a short-term need."
But even in the absence of a one-size-fits-all approach, consider the following when it comes to rounding out your growing roster.
Take stock of your cash flow. Freelancers may be the best option for cash-conscious startups and small businesses during down periods in the business cycle when payroll may prove to be a burden. Even if a small company is growing rapidly, payroll remains a huge expense. Do the math to figure the likely return on investment by taking on more full-time employees. And before using any freelancers, make sure that their work is going to contribute to the bottom line.
How complex is the project? You can always find freelancers able to do simple tasks like designing marketing fliers. A cottage industry of companies such as Fiverr, Upwork, Guru and PeoplePerHour now exists that will connect companies with contractors. But keep in mind that more complex projects may involve extensive in-house training, which adds extra cost.
What's your timetable for completing the project? Businesses that tend to do a lot of one-offs may benefit by hiring contractors on a project-by-project basis.
Ask yourself whether there's a long-term benefit to developing this kind of talent in-house. If the work is not core to the business, farm it out to a professional with the experience to do the job. But if you need a software developer who can help roll out versions 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 of the company's flagship product, that's someone you need to hire as a member of your team.
It takes time to integrate full-time employees into the organization and its culture. By contrast, a contractor is only responsible for the bottom-line results and ought to be sufficiently self-motivated to complete their assignments without any hand-holding. If you're not ready or willing to make a long-term commitment, contractors are the better bet.


Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Need anything from the store?
The most powerful tech companies have become utilities.
To many, Google is search. Just as Amazon is online shopping.
This seems to depress Google somewhat. How dare Amazon perform such a swift takeover of something Google would itself quite like to own? 
So here's a new campaign that -- only with slight subtlety -- tries to discourage you from shopping on Amazon.
Instead, use Google Express. The service features many famous brands and doesn't involve a $99 Amazon Prime-like membership. However, you'll have meet retailer minimums in order to get free shipping. 
The ad tries to be soft and human -- not always aspects associated with Amazon. Here, humans are asking other humans to order things for them. Because the asking humans are themselves far too busy. 
This goes on for almost a minute before the simple line "need anything from the store?" appears. And then the final promise: "All your stores in one place."
Which might, in some minds, incite the question: "Wait, isn't that what Amazon is anyway?" And with Amazon, you can bundle everything in one big Pantry box that arrives on your doorstep.
Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. 
It's fascinating, though, how Google is consistently trying to encroach upon spaces in which Amazon appears ahead. 
Tomorrow, Google is likely to launch new smart speakers, directly challenging Amazon's attempts to reach so far into your home that it can hear you pull the flush in the restroom.
Amazon hasn't take over too many homes yet, but it's desperately throwing as much at the effort as it can. While it can.
The problem is, as Google itself knows, that once people believe your brand is the natural one to go to, it's very difficult to shift behavior.
People are lazy. Technology merely encourages that.
Technically Incorrect: Bringing you a fresh and irreverent take on tech.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.


Amazon is lending a hand to residents of Puerto Rico following the devastating hurricane that hit the island almost two weeks ago.

The company sent a plane full of supplies, including baby formula, sheets, tents, tarps and other essential items, to San Juan on Monday, according to Instagram and Twitter posts from Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.  
Much of Puerto Rico has been without food, water and electricity since Hurricane Maria, a category 4 storm, hit on Sept. 20. Roads and buildings have been destroyed on the Caribbean island and communications networks are almost nonexistent. Local officials have complained that response efforts from the federal government have been slow.
Amazon isn't the only tech company to step up efforts to help victims. As soon as the storm passed, Tesla began sending hundreds of Powerwall battery systems, which are paired with solar panels to help restore electric power, according to news reports.  
Other technology companies donated money. For instance, Google has donated $1 million to Puerto Rico hurricane relief, which includes funds collected from Google employees. Combined with earlier donations, Google said the company, its workers and "the public" have given $7 million to aid in recovery from Harvey, Irma and Maria.
Phone and internet company Verizon has also committed to donating $1 million. Apple, Facebook and Uber have also donated to hurricane relief. Facebook has raised more than $10 million for victims of Harvey, Irma and Maria.
Tech companies have also rallied to help change policy and combat climate change, which scientists believe contributes to more powerful storms. In June, Apple, Facebook and Google as well as Tesla's Elon Musk unsuccessfully urged President Donald Trump not to back out of the Paris accord to fight global warming.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.


Satya Nadella at Vanity Fair's New Establishment Summit
In 2011, a cartoon zoomed around the internet depicting the organizational setups of various tech companies.
Amazon was a typical top-down setup, with someone in charge and people working for that person, then people working for them, etc. Apple, meanwhile, was depicted with everyone in a circle effectively all answering to the CEO.
Then there was Microsoft, where the cartoon depicted different teams, but each holding guns pointed at one another. For those who knew Microsoft's cutthroat culture, both internally and to the outside world, it rang very true.
When Satya Nadella was tapped to lead Microsoft in 2014, he decided the company needed a different approach.
"I said 'We need a learning culture,'" he told an audience Tuesday at Vanity Fair's New Establishment summit in Los Angeles. 
Since then, he's pushed Microsoft to be more collaborative with competitors. For example, one of his first decisions was to release Microsoft's Office productivity software for Apple's iPhones and iPads. He's elevated the role of consumer technology at Microsoft, both by expanding the company's line of Surface computers and by giving more prominence to the Xbox video game team. 
When Microsoft geared up to release Windows 10, the latest version of software that powers PCs, Nadella made it free for the first year. He's even said to be looking into a "major" expansion of Microsoft's presence in Silicon Valley. 
And there's Microsoft's old mission statement, "A PC on every desk and in every home" running Microsoft software. Now, it has a more modern twist: "To empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more." 
While Nadella didn't go into much detail during his panel discussion Tuesday, he did write a book about his efforts, called "Hit Refresh," where he talked about changing Microsoft's culture. 
Bottom line, he said Microsoft needs to be empathetic, even if it's actually a massive company that could take on pretty much anyone.
"Instead of viewing things as zero sum, it's how do we think of partnerships," he said.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.


Google's AlphaGo defeated Chinese Go player Ke Jie (left) this year to become the world champion.
Google's AlphaGo may have unseated Ke Jie as the Go world champion this year, but the artificial intelligence behind AlphaGo is actually no smarter than a 6-year-old child.
A study published Saturday showed Google's artificial intelligence technology scored best out of 50 systems that Chinese researchers tested against an AI scale they created, CNBC reported Monday. With a IQ score of 47.28, Google's AI was almost twice as smart as Apple virtual assistant Siri, which scored 23.94.
AI systems have developed so quickly that they've been able to act as assistants, take exams and even outperform us at strategy games. But the new results may downplay the concerns of people uneasy about AI's rapid progression.
To evaluate how smart an intelligent system is (or has become), its ability to "acquire, master, create and feedback knowledge" needs to be tested, wrote the researchers. In 2014, the IQ of 50 AI systems was rated. The systems included Google's AI, Siri and Chinese search engine Baidu. Three humans, ages 18, 12 and 6, were also rated. When the researchers tested the AI systems again in 2016, they found that Google was the smartest and improved the fastest (from an IQ of 26.5 to 47.28), but it wasn't enough to beat even a 6-year-old, who came in with a score of 55.5.
Notable "AI worriers" include physicist Stephen Hawking and Tesla Motors and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, who both won the 2015 Luddite Award and were branded AI "alarmists." Hawking is a firm believer that AI could pose a real danger depending on who controls it and argues that it could outsmart us and end humanity. Musk agrees there's significant risk and asked for regulation in July, going as far as to suggest AI could start World War III. Alibaba founder and executive chairman, Jack Ma, predicts that companies could be helmed by AI systems in the next three decades.
Dr Lin Hsuan-Tien, chief data scientist of Taiwan-based AI startup, Appier, agrees AI systems have yet to reach the intelligence of even a six-year-old, but possess extraordinary learning capabilities.
"Scientists believed AI was capable of lots of things but were disappointed by failures created out of unrealistic goals," Dr Lin tells CNET in an email. 
"Many AI researchers instead started to focus on 'weak AI,' which [tackles] specific problems, such as image recognition or playing the game of Go. Weak AI has proven that its ability to learn surpasses the capabilities of most human beings and is able to achieve super-human performance levels." 
Google declined to comment.
First published, Oct. 3, 3:40 a.m. PT. Update, 11:41 p.m. PT: Adds comment from Appier.    
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.


Last week, the Food and Drug Administration issued a stern warning to biohackers in America: Undertaking DIY gene therapy, it warned, is risky, and selling the supplies to do it is flat-out against the law.
“FDA is aware that gene therapy products intended for self-administration and ‘do it yourself’ kits to produce gene therapies for self-administration are being made available to the public. The sale of these products is against the law. FDA is concerned about the safety risks involved,” the agency said.
Advertisement

The statement came on the heels of two very public demonstrations of unregulated, do-it-yourself genetic engineering. In one, a 27-year-old software engineer injected himself with an unproven gene therapy for HIV while streaming live on Facebook. In the other, a well-known biohacker injected himself with  a gene to promote muscle growth  at a San Francisco biotech conference. New genetic engineering technologies has spurred a burgeoning movement of biohackers doing sophisticated science outside of formal labs. Until last week, though, regulators have mostly stayed out of it.
The FDA’s brief statement raised many questions. For one, the agency singled out CRISPR in particular as a subject of concern, noting that it “considers any use of CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing in humans to be gene therapy.” But what about other gene editing techniques, of which there are many? It also offered no details on which regulations selling DIY gene therapy supplies violated, or how it planned to enforce those regulations.
After the initial warning, Gizmodo reached out to the FDA for clarity on how it might affect the biohacking community.
For one, the agency, made clear, it’s not just CRISPR: “Gene editing in humans by any method would be considered gene therapy regulated by FDA,” a spokesperson said, noting that it only mentioned CRISPR because it’s such a buzzy word.
And the selling of kits, it seems, would be considered illegal because, in broad terms, the agency would consider it the sale of any unapproved “gene therapy product” akin to the sale of an unapproved drug. If someone wants to test an unapproved drug in humans, they must first clear a clinical investigation with the FDA.
Per the agency:
A clinical investigation, described in title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations, part 312.2 is defined as: any experiment in which a drug is administered or dispensed to, or used involving, one or more human subjects. An experiment is any use of a drug except for the use of a marketed drug in the course of medical practice.
The clarification makes it appear likely that the warning was motivated by the October experiment involving the unproven gene therapy for HIV. While the subject of the experiment actually injected the vaccine himself, its development was paid for by a company, Ascendence Biomedical. The company plans to sell the “research compounds” used to make the vaccine online and to fund “transparent” clinical trials that would skirt typical regulatory oversight by having people deliver their own treatment. The initial experiment raised significant concerns because there has been no human clinical trials of such an HIV treatment to date.
Advertisement

Ascendence Biomedical says it has no plans to change course based on the warning.
“It sounds like the FDA would like to believe that a  research compound expressly not for human consumption becomes a clinical investigation as soon as the individual in receipt of it decides of their own free will  to use it for personal research purposes,” CEO Aaron Traywick told Gizmodo. “These definitions were not set in place to regulate such activities, and there appears no specific law regulating such activities.”
If the FDA chose to step in, it could also affect The Odin, a company run by Josiah Zayner, the biohacker who injected himself with CRISPR. The Odin sells kits for home genetic engineering, and though those kits do not expressly mention humans, it also sells a human DNA plasmid that promotes muscle growth for $20. (It comes with this warning: “This product is not injectable or meant for direct human use. The DNA needs to replicated and purified before use in human cells.”)
Advertisement

Zayner also says he has no plans to heed the agency’s warning, because he feels it does no apply.
“It seems people are getting after me because I promote people doing something even though I am not selling them the thing,” Zayner told Gizmodo. “Even if someone were to inject the DNA, the concentration is so low and it doesn’t have the required chemicals to get it in cells efficiently.”
The FDA would not offer further detail on which products it specifically considers in violation of its regulations, or how it might penalize those that violate them.
Advertisement

“I can’t cite specifics,” a spokesperson told Gizmodo, “Information about the agency’s inspection and surveillance activities, including whether the agency is considering action, is generally not made available to the public unless and until enforcement action is taken.”
In the past, with a few exceptions, the regulators have largely left biohackers alone. The FBI has even gone so far as to cultivate a friendly relationship with them. At least as far as the FDA is concerned though, that laissez faire attitude may be a thing of the past.


The British Ecological Society has announced the winners of its annual photo competition, and it features fantastic photos of fearsome predators pouncing on prey, a freakishly rare ocelot, and a crafty chameleon doing what a chameleon does best.
This year’s competition was called “Capturing Ecology,” and it features photos primarily taken by international ecologists and students. In addition to capturing beautiful images, the photographers had to demonstrate interactions between different species in their natural environments—a not-so-easy task. The competition featured several different categories, each with an overall winner and a student winner. Here are some of our favorites.
This photo by Christopher Beirne was the overall winner of the competition. It shows a male ocelot traversing a human-made trail at the Manu Learning Centre, Peru. “Although we often think of trails through tropical rainforests as having negative impacts on local wildlife, several cats species (including the ocelot and its larger cousins pumas and jaguars) often use these trails to rapidly move around their home ranges,” writes Beirne in a press release.
Retiree Mark Tatchell was the runner-up with this colorful photo of a Toco toucan (Ramphastos toco).
Leejiah Dorward was the Overall Student Winner for this picture of a flap-necked chameleon climbing a flowering plant stem in search for a safe spot to roost for the night in Southern Tanzania.
Student prize for the dynamic ecosystems category went to Leejiah Dorward for this photo of a Savanna vine snake holding a firm grip on a doomed Speckle-fronted weaver in Southern Tanzania. The snake’s camouflage makes it a formidable killer.
A pregnant female Leatherback turtle slinks back to the ocean after being saved by local NGOs and scientists after it became stranded inland. The previous evening, she mistook the city lights of Libreville, Gabon, for the starry night sky. Adult females depend on astronomical navigation when returning to their natal beaches to lay eggs. This photo won Adam Rees the Student Prize in the Ecology and Society category.
Nick Harvey won the Student Prize in the Ecology in Action category. In this scene, a white rhino had to be relocated from a small reserve in KwaZulu-Natal to prevent inbreeding. The massive bull was darted from the helicopter, blindfolded, injected with a tracker, and shoved—by hand—into a crate.
The overall winner in the Ecology in Action category went to Dominic Cram for this picture of meerkats loitering around a scale. “At the Kalahari Meerkat Project, wild meerkats are habituated to the presence of human observers, and are trained to climb onto electronic balances,” writes the BES. “Close observation of meerkats, and regular collection of weight data, allow researchers from the University of Cambridge to investigate behaviour and growth in a natural ecological context.”
An inquisitive cub is seen coming out of its mother’s protection to explore the world outside, in this photo taken by Nilanjan Chatterjee. The image was winner of the Individuals and Populations category.
“During an excursion in my third year studying biology, a butterfly, Anthocharis cardamines, was caught and put into a plastic jar,” said Sanne Govaert, who took the photo. “This way the butterfly could be easily identified and shown to the interested students. The jar was scratched, giving an artistic flare to the picture.” This image won Student Prize in the Art of Ecology category.
Winner of the Up Close and Personal category went to Roberto García Roa for this picture of a male Anolis Lizard in  in Costa Rica.
[British Ecological Society]


Oops! Andromeda, our closest galactic neighbor, sits a measly 2.5 million light years away from Earth. Like the Milky Way, it’s a spiral galaxy packed with stars. Some of those stars orbit one another. That’s all good—but scientists have come to the realization that a particular light source, one assumed to be binary star system in Andromeda, may actually be something far stranger. Like a pair of orbiting supermassive black holes a thousand times further away.
“J0045+41,” the strange source, “is an exciting and unique object,” the scientists from the University of Washington write in their paper, accepted by the Astrophysical Journal.
Advertisement

A team of Spanish scientists first identified the source,  J0045+41, back in 2006. More specifically, they were looking for  binary star systems that could be used to better determine astronomical distances. Others catalogued it as a potential cluster of stars.
A team of researchers from the University of Washington combined data on the object’s light using the Gemini Multi-Object Spectrograph and NASA’s Chandra X-Ray Telescope to experience their “that’s no moon” moment. The data instead implied that J0045+41 was an active galactic nuclei, an incredibly bright galactic center with a supermassive black hole at the core, 2.5 billion light years away.
The scientists did detect some evidence of this light source dimming and brightening regularly. But this regular flashing looked almost exactly how the laws of physics would predict supermassive black holes orbiting one another would look.
Also, they did their analysis in the python programming language. I don’t know why I feel like pointing that out, but I felt like pointing that out today. Physics requires computers.
Ultimately, the researchers hope to take better data using the upcoming Zwicky Transient Facility survey, a next-generation camera that’s just started detecting weird things in space. And if these were really supermassive black holes orbiting one another, perhaps one day researchers will be able to detect their gravitational waves. 
When you’re trying to decode the origin of distant lights, mistakes can happen. But sometimes they can result in really wild discoveries.
[arXiv via Chandra X-ray Observatory]


If you’ve taken a science class, you’re likely aware that DNA is the body’s instruction manual. But its language is only written in four letters: A, T, C, and G. Those who paid extra close attention will remember that RNA, the photocopy of the instructions that the cell actually uses, replaces the Ts with the letter U.
Back in 2014, scientists at the Scripps Research Institute in California reported that they’d engineered bacteria whose DNA used a whole new pair of letters, nicknamed X and Y. That same team now reports that they’ve gotten the bacteria to actually use these new letters. The biological possibilities, as a result, now seem endless.
Advertisement

“The resulting semi-synthetic organism both encodes and retrieves increased information,” report the authors this week in Nature, “and should serve as a platform for the creation of new life forms and functions,” like new kinds of bacteria with specialized purposes (cleaning the environment, storing gifs...who knows) for example.
The initial five letters actually represent two pairs of molecules. G, or guanine, always partners with C, or cytosine. A, or adenine, partners with T, thymine in DNA, but in the copy of the DNA the body actually uses, the RNA, it partners with U, or uracil. The DNA double helix is sort of like a zipper whose teeth are composed of these “nucleobases.”
These bases cryptically code for amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. The RNA copies the DNA then heads over to the ribosome, the worker who can actually use the instructions to build a protein from these amino acids.
Researchers previously engineered an E. coli bacteria that could incorporate a new pair, d5SICSTP and dNaMTP or X and Y. But the new paper in Nature reports E. coli actually constructing special fluorescent proteins that add new amino acids, based on the simple instructions containing these whole new letters.
We’re not in the world where the existing five (and now seven) letters become a whole slew of new ones just yet. The researchers only introduced two new ones, and only tested them on two “codons,” or three letter phrases that usually code for single amino acids. It’s like introducing a new letter to the English language but only using it to make a couple of new words.
Still, the sky is the limit if the paper is to be taken at its word. “Thus, the reported semi-synthetic organism is likely to be just the first of a new form of semi-synthetic life that is able to access a broad range of forms and functions not available to natural organisms.”
Maybe.
[Nature]


Just look at this incredibly detailed photo of Jupiter’s clouds as captured by NASA’s Juno spacecraft. It’s an otherworldly distraction to keep our minds off all the crap that’s happening here on Earth, at least for a little while.
Juno snapped this photo on October 27th when it was just 11,747 miles (18,906 km) from the tops of Jupiter’s clouds. The scale of this image is 7.75 miles for each pixel, or about 12 km/pixel.
The stunning blue, grey, and white swirls look like drops of oil in a puddle of water, showcasing the complexity of Jupiter’s turbulent atmosphere. Juno captured this image at just the right time when the gas giant’s high altitude clouds were casting a shadow on their surroundings.
This particular region of Jupiter is in the northern hemisphere. Juno was nearly three-fifths of the way from Jupiter’s equator to its north pole, and conducting its ninth close flyby, when the photo was taken.
Advertisement

Before you move on to the next article, take a few moments to enjoy this remarkable view of the Solar System’s largest planet. Good things like this seem scarce these days—and who knows what horror the next click of your mouse might bring.
[NASA]


A new drug, called Erenumab, has shown promise in preventing migraine attacks, the intense headaches that chronically plague millions of adults each year in the US alone.
Erenumab is a lab-made antibody that works by blocking a neural pathway called CGRP. Data from a recent phase three reported Thursday in the New England Journal of Medicine found that it cut the number of “migraine days” experienced each month by 1,000 patients to between three and four. In half of those patients, the length that the migraines lasted were reduced by at least half.
Advertisement

Migraines are an extremely common ailment, and recent estimates suggest they affect about one in seven adults annually. They’re a significant public health problem, contributing every year to many outpatient doctors visits as well as visits to the ER.
The phase three trial compared patients taking erenumab for six months with others given a  placebo. By months four to six, there was at least a 50 percent reduction in the mean number of migraine days per month for about 43 percent of patients injected under the skin with a 70 milligram dose of erenumab each month. With a doubled dose, half of patients saw similar results. More than a quarter of those on the placebo, though, also experienced benefits.
Placebo effects are common in studies related to pain, including migraines. Whether the drug ultimately passes muster with the FDA will depend on whether the agency views the benefits as robust enough, and in enough people. Either way, though, the drug points to an important avenue of research to explore for a terrible condition that  impacts millions each year.
[New England Journal of Medicine]


When an unresponsive patient arrived at a Florida hospital ER, the medical staff was taken aback upon discovering the words “DO NOT RESUSCITATE” tattooed onto the man’s chest—with the word “NOT” underlined and with his signature beneath it. Confused and alarmed, the medical staff chose to ignore the apparent DNR request—but not without alerting the hospital’s ethics team, who had a different take on the matter.
As described in a New England Journal of Medicine case report, the unnamed 70-year-old man was brought to the ER by paramedics in an unconscious state, and with an elevated blood alcohol level. The patient had a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (a type of lung disease), diabetes, and an irregular heart rate. His condition began to deteriorate several hours after being admitted, and dramatic medical interventions were needed to keep the patient alive.
But with the “DO NOT RESUSCITATE” tattoo glaring back at them, the ICU team was suddenly confronted with a serious dilemma. The patient arrived at the hospital without ID, the medical staff was unable to contact next of kin, and efforts to revive or communicate with the patient were futile. The medical staff had no way of knowing if the tattoo was representative of the man’s true end-of-life wishes, so they decided to play it safe and ignore it.
Advertisement

“We initially decided not to honor the tattoo, invoking the principle of not choosing an irreversible path when faced with uncertainty,” wrote the authors of the case study. “This decision left us conflicted owing to the patient’s extraordinary effort to make his presumed advance directive known; therefore, an ethics consultation was requested.”
But there was more too it than just the medical ethics. Gregory Holt, the lead author of the new case study, said the biggest question in his mind was the legal aspect of whether or not it was acceptable. “Florida has stringent rules on this,” he told Gizmodo.
Most patients receiving end-of-life care want to avoid aggressive attempts to prolong their life,…
While the DNR tattoo may seem extreme, the request to not be resuscitated during end-of-life care is most certainly not. Roughly 80 percent of US Medicare patients say “they wish to avoid hospitalization and intensive care during the terminal phase of illness.” Revealingly, a 2014 survey showed that the vast majority of physicians would prefer to skip high-intensity interventions for themselves. Of the 1,081 doctors polled, over 88 percent opted for do-not-resuscitate status. Indeed, measures to keep a patient alive are often invasive, painful, and costly. DNRs, which hospital staff refer to as “no-codes,” are an explicit request to forego high-intensity interventions like CPR, electric shock, and intubation tubes. More implicitly, it’s a request to not be hooked up to a machine.
Typically, DNRs are formal, notarized documents that a patient gives to their doctor and family members. Tattoos, needless to say, are a highly unorthodox—but arguably direct—means of conveying one’s end-of-life wishes. That said, this patient’s tattoo presented some undeniable complications for the hospital staff. Is a tattoo a legal document? Was it a regretful thing the patient did while he was drunk or high? Did he get the tattoo, but later change his opinion? On this last point, a prior case does exist in which a patient’s DNR tattoo did not reflect their wishes (as the authors wrote in this 2012 report: “...he did not think anyone would take his tattoo seriously...”).
In this most recent NEJM case, the ICU team did its best to keep the patient alive as the ethics team mulled over the situation, administering antibiotics, vasopressors (to elevate low blood pressure), intravenous fluid resuscitation, and other measures.
“After reviewing the patient’s case, the ethics consultants advised us to honor the patient’s DNR tattoo,” Holt told Gizmodo. “They suggested that it was most reasonable to infer that the tattoo expressed an authentic preference, that what might be seen as caution could also be seen as standing on ceremony [i.e. adherence to medical tradition and norms], and that the law is sometimes not nimble enough to support patient-centered care and respect for patients’ best interests.”
Advertisement

Accordingly, the ICU team wrote up a DNR, and the patient died later that evening without having undergone any emergency DNR measures. Before he died, however, the hospital’s social work department discovered the patient’s Florida Department of Health “out-of-hospital” DNR order, which was consistent with the tattoo.
But as the authors of the new report point out, the whole incident “produced more confusion than clarity,” saying that, despite how hard it can be for patients to make their end-of-life wishes known, “this case report neither supports nor opposes the use of tattoos to express end-of-life wishes when the person is incapacitated.”
Kerry Bowman, a bioethicist at the University of Toronto, agrees that this incident was challenging.
Advertisement

“Advanced directives of any kind do not override most recent expressed capable wish,” Bowman told Gizmodo. “In other words, [the patient] may have changed his mind and there may be no way of knowing. Tattoo regret is not rare. [The ICU team’s] defense is erring on the side of life.”
At the same time, however, Bowman is sympathetic to the patient, saying the tattoo may be an expression of how often patients’ wishes are somehow overlooked and the system takes over. “My position would be if someone went to the great length of having DNR tattooed with a signature, it indicates a strong and clear wish,” he told Gizmodo.
Melissa Garrido, an Associate Professor at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in NYC, shares this sentiment, saying that even when a DNR order has been entered into a medical record, it is not always readily accessible in a health crisis. “A standardized tattoo may be a readily accessible method for communicating a strongly held care preference,” she told Gizmodo.
Advertisement

Correction: A previous version of this article stated that vasopressors  lower blood pressure. They do the opposite, and we regret the error.
[New England Journal of Medicine]


This weekend, for the several billionth or so time in Earth’s history, the Moon will be in the part of its orbit around Earth where it’s a little closer, 16,000 miles closer than usual, and it looks a teeny amount larger. By this point, this so-called “supermoon” is a fairly cliched but certainly hyped piece of science news.
But honestly, you should look at the Moon. Not just today, but tomorrow, next week, next month, and next year. Look at it every night (if you can). Why not? It’s over four billion years old, it’s an incredible rock only 240 thousand or so miles away. It’s responsible for the tides and eclipses and moderating the climate. Humans literally walked on that thing. It’s deeply rooted in culture and religion, and you’ll join the billions of others who’ve looked at and appreciated the Moon all through history. You can’t look at the Sun, after all.
Advertisement

I take that back, actually. You can look at the Sun! Remember those eclipse glasses you have from this past August that you thought you’d never use again? If they’re not fake, you can just pop them on and look right at the Sun—directly at it, in fact. You can see sunspots, darker areas on the Sun that could be responsible for solar weather, like solar flares.
If you’ve managed to hang onto your solar eclipse glasses since August 21st, don’t throw them away! …
And as long as you’re looking at the Sun and the Moon, you can look at the stars and the planets—and even distant galaxies! You can get decent binoculars for a hundred bucks, and a pretty good telescope for less than two hundred. You can look at Saturn’s rings yourself. You can see Jupiter’s stripes. Heck, find a dark enough spot, and you can even see the spiral arms of the Pinwheel Galaxy, or nearby Andromeda’s bright center.
Those crazy pictures you see on websites like this one? Yeah, you can go look at that stuff yourself. And if you don’t have a telescope, you can just look at some of it with your regular old eyes. Look at the vast Milky Way plastered across the sky and the constellations. Look at the fuzzy tails of passing comets or the bright flashes of  meteors.
Oh, is it cloudy out? Bummer. Well, why don’t you look at Earth then? This planet has been around for billions of years. You can pull apart its history in its rocks, in the dirt, in its plants, in the animals and in the ocean.
Get a telescope. Get a microscope. Get a chemistry set. Get a metal detector. Can’t afford it? Borrow someone else’s, or go to a public showing at a local university. Build your own radio. Take apart a clock. Grow a garden. Make a volcano.
Advertisement

Look at the Moon. Look at everything. Not just this weekend because the internet told you to. Look at it all the time.


For much of recorded history, skin color has been loaded with powerful social meaning. Skin color plays a major part in how we define race. It also plays a significant role in racism.
New studies of the genetics of skin color, though, have begun to shed light on how wrong those assumptions about the relationship between race and skin color really are. The genetics of skin pigmentation appears to be far more complex than previously thought.
Advertisement

Skin color is a heritable condition, meaning it is trait passed down to you by your parents. But skin color is not determined by any one single gene, and how those genes interplay to make you look like you is by no means straightforward. In a new study of indigenous southern African people published Thursday in the journal Cell, researchers from the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Stanford University, and Stony Brook University report that the number of genes involved in skin pigmentation increase in number—and therefore also complexity—the closer they reside to the equator.
“It’s often under-appreciated how much skin pigmentation variation there is in Africa,” Brenna Henn, a study author and researcher at Stony Brook, told Gizmodo. “Between people in Ghana and South Africa there is a big difference in skin pigmentation. Even within this one population in South Africa we see a lot of variation. Some people are quite light-skinned and some are quite dark-skinned.”
The researchers spent seven years with the KhoeSan people, interviewing them, recording details such as height, age, gender, and using what’s called a reflectometer to quantitatively measure skin color. All told, they collected data for about 400 people. They then genotyped each sample, looking at hundreds of thousands of spots on the genome to identify markers associated with pigmentation, and sequenced those regions. Genetics, generally, is a comparative science, so next they compared the new data to a dataset that was comprised of 5,000 people from across the globe.
What they found undercuts a common view about how genetics and skin color works. The prevailing theory reflects what you probably imagine when you think of how skin color differentiates across the globe: People closer to the equator are darker, and the further away you get, the lighter in pigment. The new data, though, suggests a picture that is far more complex. In the far north, they found, it’s generally true that the farther north in latitude you go, the lighter the complexion. But closer to the equator, things get all mixed up. Something called “stabilizing selection” comes into play, and a greater number of genes begin to affect skin color, resulting in an increased chance of variability. The scientists were only able to attribute about 10 percent of that variation to genes already known to impact skin color.
The work also resulted in new insights into particular genes. A mutation in one gene, the pithily named SLC24A5, is thought to have cropped up in Europe some 10,000 to 20,000 years ago. But in the KhoeSan population, it appears much more frequently than would be expected, suggesting it either actually first arose in the KhoeSan people, entered the population through mating thousands of years ago, or perhaps began to show up more frequently over time because it produced some genetic advantage to the KhoeSan people in particular.
Another study published this fall looked at the evolution of gene variants associated with skin color and similarly concluded that past assumptions about genetics and skin color have been just plain wrong. In that study, researchers zeroed in on eight genetic variants in four regions of the human genome that strongly influence pigment. They found that those genes are shared across the globe. One gene, for example, played a role in lightening the skin of both Europeans and hunter-gatherers in Botswana. That gene, they found, predated Homo sapiens, evolving in a different species of human in Africa some 300,000 years ago.
Advertisement

The conclusion of all this is that color lines are, in essence, meaningless. Our skin color is the result of many, many different genes which work together in different combinations to produce different colors of skin. Many of those genes are shared across racial, cultural, and geographic boundaries.
These new studies of skin color also suggest a second theme: In genetics, the vast majority of data has been gathered from Northern Eurasian populations, and that in turn has created a biased and incomplete portrait of how the genetics of things like skin color really work.
“There’s been so little research done outside of European populations,” said Brenn. “We wanted to see if our models would apply to other populations. It turns out it doesn’t.”


The Earth happens to be located in one of the weirdest places imaginable: the Universe. Like, whatever this Universe is and whatever rules it follows, we puny humans still struggle to understand it. But we’re really trying to—and we can’t seem to agree.
China’s Dark Matter Particle Explorer satellite (DAMPE or “Wukong” in China) is reporting the results of a year-and-a-half of space-staring, measuring the mysterious, high-energy electrons blasting Earth from space. The experiment has directly detected something that some similar experiments have hinted at, but others haven’t: a sudden drop-off in the electrons hitting the satellite. Whatever is going on, it’s weird.
Advertisement

This change, called a spectral break, “confirms the evidence found by previous indirect measurements,” and “clarifies the behavior” of the high energy electrons, according to the paper published yesterday in Nature.
Science writes that the experiment is important as “China’s first mission dedicated to astrophysics” and “shows that the country is set to become a force in space science,” paraphrasing Physicist David Spergel at Princeton.
DAMPE counts the electrons and their antiparticles, positrons, hitting Earth from space. If you peep a graph of the number of electrons hitting the satellite versus their energy, the quantity decreases as the energy increases. But starting around 0.9 tera-electron volt (TeV) electrons, those that have almost two million times the energy of everyday, lowest-energy electrons, DAMPE spotted hints of a mysterious drop-off. This “edge-like” change could possibly be the result of nearby pulsars or even dark matter.
But is this apparent edge real? It’s hard to say. Physicist Wim de Boer from the Karlsruhe Institute for Technology in Germany noted that the Calorimetric Electron Telescope (CALET) on the International Space Station doesn’t seem to observe this edge at high energy, nor does the experiment de Boer works on, the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer, also on the ISS. But Spergel told Gizmodo the uncertainties in all of these experiments are too large to say anything conclusive.
There simply isn’t a lot of data for the electrons with the highest energies, and a lot of places where the experiments differ in the way they analyze the data or potential sources of error. As always, more data will lead to a better understanding of the situation.
As to whether there are hints of dark matter afoot, “I don’t think dark matter should be at these high energies,” or at least, that’s the popular belief, said De Boer—and for now, he doesn’t know how to interpret the break. But more in-depth analyses of the specific types of particles, like electrons versus their antiparticles, positrons, could also help tease out the details of the story.
Advertisement

We have many experiments in which scientists can’t agree on what they’re seeing within all that strange stuff hitting Earth from outer space—or even if they have enough data to disagree. But there’s still hope that some explanation for “dark matter,” whatever it may be, is out there.
[Nature]


The scale of the opioid crisis gripping the United States is hard to fathom. Since 2000, lethal overdoses from opioid use have tripled, and the problem is so widespread Centers for Disease Control researchers have concluded it is dragging down the national life expectancy. Though President Donald Trump has declared the epidemic a national public health emergency, he had not until Wednesday appointed an official to coordinate the major federal response experts say is needed to fight the problem.
That the official he settled on is Kellyanne Conway should tell you everything you need to know about how little actual thought this administration has put into solving the crisis.
Advertisement

Per BuzzFeed, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced Conway—a pollster and Trump confidante best known for repeatedly lying to the public and who has no medical or public health experience—will be overseeing the White House’s opioid control efforts. As Conway takes the reins, the BuzzFeed report noted, the White House has left the Office of National Drug Control Policy’s leadership role empty, failed to release any written opioid-control strategy, and has not requested funds to refill a depleted national public health emergency fund that currently sits at just $66,000.
What will Conway bring to the table? Per the New York Times’ Maggie Haberman, assisting New Jersey Governor Chris Christie push through a commission report detailing how to fight opioid abuse has been part of her portfolio for some time. Christie’s report described the steps needed as relatively simple, per BuzzFeed, including limiting over-prescriptions, blocking Chinese fentanyl exports, and distributing naloxone, a drug that can stop fatal overdoses, to communities.
But as Quartz noted, Conway’s public record of statements on the issue is sparse and far from encouraging. She’s characterized opioids as a “war,” said the “best way to stop people dying from overdoses and drug abuse is by not starting in the first place,” and suggested that individual “will” was as important as funding while defending Medicaid cuts.
Later, Politico’s Sarah Karlin-Smith reported, the White House even dialed back expectations of how much time Conway will really be devoting to the issue.

While the administration has paid lip service to the role of the health care system in saving lives impacted by opioid abuse, they’ve also proposed cuts to the ONDCP and cuts to grants intended to help workers displaced by the crisis. Republicans are clearly eyeing paying for their oncoming tax cut package with future cuts to health care programs for low-income people like Medicaid, and as the New York Times noted, if that bill passes projections show 13 million could lose health insurance as Obamacare premiums rise 10 percent. There’s been little to nothing from the administration about expanding access to naloxone, which could save thousands of lives.
Advertisement

As Think Progress noted, Sessions’ speech on Wednesday instead emphasized diverting millions of dollars to law enforcement, consistent with Trump’s preference for heavy-handed police tactics and dated “Just Say No”-style advertising. While police have a role to play, the administration seems more interested in pretending that scientifically debunked War on Drugs-style enforcement will be enough to offset the lack of federal resources they’re actually committing on the treatment and prevention side.
In other words, Trump’s administration is still fumbling its response to the problem at a time when it’s getting worse. At least 59,000 people and possibly as many as 65,000 people died from drug overdoses in 2016, per the Times, a staggering increase of 19 percent over the prior estimate of 52,404 in 2015. All we’re likely to get out of Conway is grandstanding exaggerations of how well Trump and crew are handling the problem, which is tantamount to it continuing to get worse.
“Stemming overdose deaths will take a broad interagency approach led by someone with a singular focus and extensive knowledge of the drivers of—and solutions to—the epidemic,” former ONDCP official Regina LaBelle told BuzzFeed. “Therefore, a Senate confirmed Director of National Drug Control Policy should lead this effort.”
[BuzzFeed]


Let’s say you are a British penis-having sex-doer who has trouble with the whole erection thing but you don’t want to talk to a doctor about it. Good news: You’ll soon be able to buy Viagra over the counter. Incredible!
The British Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) announced that anyone over the age of 18 with erectile dysfunction could buy Viagra starting next spring. It still requires a discussion with some human (other than the one you are doing sex with) of course:
If marketed, the medicine will be sold from pharmacies following a discussion with the pharmacist. Pharmacists will be able to determine whether treatment is appropriate for the patient and can give advice on erectile dysfunction, usage of the medicine, potential side effects, and if further consultation with a general practitioner is required.
The release continues that those at high cardiovascular risk, liver failure, severe kidney failure, or those taking certain medications (like those containing nitrates) will still need to discuss their Viagra use with their doctors.
Advertisement

Viagra, for those few of you who may not be aware, is a pill that helps the body engorge penis tissue with blood to help the taker engage in certain sexual acts. The tablets consist of the chemical sildenafil citrate, once studied for its help with high blood pressure until its makers realized it would probably be better suited for erectile dysfunction.
In the United States, something like 30 million people suffer from erectile dysfunction but require a prescription to take Viagra. It’s frequently counterfeited—and it’s possible that something like three-quarters of the Viagra purchased online is counterfeit, reported Forbes a few years ago.
The MHRA report states that, if the medicine was more easily available, some ED sufferers might look for legitimate Viagra and not potentially fake online options.
I reached out and asked Pfizer, the company that produces Viagra, if it has any plans with regards to the United States. I’ll update the post when I hear back.
But in the meantime, if you happen to be in the UK and are having some penis problems, I pray this makes things a little less awkward.
[MHRA via the BBC]
Update 4:45PM: A Pfizer spokesperson sent Gizmodo the following email:
While we do not have information to share on specific [prescripton] to OTC switch programs in the United States, generally we consider prescription drugs—both within the Pfizer portfolio and outside it—for potential switch to non-prescription status. Our objective is to provide consumers with significantly greater access to medicines with well-established efficacy and safety profiles without a prescription.
So...who knows.


As a science reporter, I’m a supplement skeptic. I know most supplements don’t work and that lax regulations mean that supplement makers sometimes put out products that are poor quality or even unsafe.
And yet, ever since my hair stylist mentioned to me a few years ago that she’s noticed clients who take biotin really do see their hair grow faster and stronger, I’ve religiously popped a biotin capsule every day. It was unlikely that the vitamin did anything, I told myself, but it was also unlikely to harm. A scant chance of stronger hair and nails seemed worth the relatively low cost. I know many similarly supplement-skeptical women who do the same.
Advertisement

It turns out, though, that there may indeed be risk associated with taking biotin, aside from those typically associated with taking poorly regulated supplements. This week, the FDA issued a warning that it can interfere with the results of certain medical tests.
“Biotin in blood or other samples taken from patients who are ingesting high levels of biotin in dietary supplements can cause clinically significant incorrect lab test results,” the agency warned in its statement. “The FDA has seen an increase in the number of reported adverse events, including one death, related to biotin interference with lab tests.”
Biotin, sometimes also known as vitamin H, is a B complex vitamin found commonly in multivitamins (especially those for women), supplements for hair, skin, and nail growth, and prenatal vitamins. The issue is that those products can contain biotin levels up to  650 times higher than the recommended daily intake.
The FDA notes that recently there has been an increase in the number of reports that the popular supplement has skewed test results, causing falsely high or falsely low results depending on the test. Many lab tests use biotin technology as part of the test because it can bond with specific proteins that can be measured to detect certain health conditions. It’s often used in hormone tests and tests for markers of cardiac health. In one case, the FDA said, biotin seems to have interfered with a test for troponin, a biomarker used in the diagnosis of heart attacks. A falsely low troponin test resulted in a missed diagnosis in a patient taking high levels of biotin and the patient died.
The agency has released new recommendations for doctors, lab personnel, and consumers. It urges consumers to talk to their doctor about supplements they may be taking, and be aware that some supplements may have high levels of biotin even if those levels are not clearly labeled.
In the mean time, the best advice might be to just quit wasting your money on supplements.


A new report from the US Centers for Disease Control shows that, while detection rates are improving, a surprising number of Americans live with HIV for a protracted period of time before it gets diagnosed—including patients who’ve visited their doctor.
In 2015, the average time it took a person in the US to get a diagnosis after contracting an HIV infection was about three years, according to a new Vital Signs report put out yesterday by the CDC. Back in 2011, that statistic was three years and seven months, so detection rates are improving.
Advertisement

“These findings are more encouraging signs that the tide continues to turn on our nation’s HIV epidemic,” said CDC director Brenda Fitzgerald  in a statement. “HIV is being diagnosed more quickly, the number of people who have the virus under control is up, and annual infections are down.”
But while things are steadily improving in this area, there’s still plenty of room for improvement. In 2015, nearly 40,000 people in the United States received an HIV diagnosis. Of them, half had lived with the disease for three years or more before they knew it, and a quarter lived with the disease for seven years before they finally got a diagnosis. One in five saw their HIV advance to the most advanced stage—AIDS—before a diagnosis. In 2014, around 1.1 million people in the US had HIV.
When it comes to HIV, early detection is critical—both in terms of prevention and treatment. Medicines allow people who have the virus to live a long and healthy life. And by taking the appropriate precautions, infected individuals can actively protect their partners from contracting HIV. As the CDC points out, two out of every five new HIV infections are caused by a person who didn’t even realize they had the disease.
In terms of recommendations, the CDC says doctors should test all patients between the ages of 13 to 64 for HIV at least once in their lifetime. Patients at higher risk should be tested at least once a year (people at high risk include sexually active gay and bisexual men, people who inject drugs, and heterosexuals who have sex with someone who’s at risk for or has HIV), and it’s not unreasonable for doctors to test some high risk patients every three to six months.
“Ideally, HIV is diagnosed within months of infection, rather than years later,” said Eugene McCray, director of CDC’s Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, in a statement. “Further increasing regular HIV testing and closing testing, diagnoses and treatment gaps is essential to stopping HIV in our communities.”
Encouragingly, the new report shows that the percentage of people at increased risk for HIV who reported getting an HIV test during the previous year has gone up—but the CDC says too few are being tested. Patients who said they didn’t get an HIV test during the past year included nearly 30 percent of gay and bisexual men, 42 percent of people who injected drugs, and nearly 60 percent of at-risk heterosexuals. Discouragingly, seven in 10 people at high risk visited their healthcare provider during the past year but weren’t administered an HIV test. The CDC is trying to reduce these “missed opportunities.”
Advertisement

The CDC also discovered that the time it takes to get diagnosed varies by risk group and by race/ethnicity. Amongst those who inject drugs, it takes about five years for heterosexual males, and about 2.5 years for heterosexual females, to get diagnosed. It takes, on average, about three years for gay and bisexual men to get an HIV diagnosis. White Americans get diagnosed after about two years, African Americans and Latinos around three years, and Asian Americans around four years.
As the CDC points out, it’s important for at-risk individuals to get tested often, but healthcare providers need to do their part as well. “Talk to all your patients about HIV. Tell them HIV testing is a routine part of a patient’s healthcare,” writes the CDC. “Have the conversation about HIV risk. Don’t assume you know a patient’s risk.”
[CDC Vital Signs]


There’s a nebulous concept that’s floating around the public conscious, called quantum advantage or quantum supremacy. One of these days, someone is going to boldly declare that they’ve created a quantum computer that can solve some complex problem that a regular computer can’t.
That said, quantum supremacy probably won’t be a single event. More likely it will be a slow process, beginning with a specialized quantum computer solving an incredibly esoteric problem, then progressing to increasingly important problems. While they’re not touting “quantum supremacy” officially, two teams of scientists are announcing that their quantum simulators—advanced quantum computers with very specialized scientific purposes—have made some real scientific discoveries.
Advertisement

“In a way, we already have entered the regime of quantum supremacy,” Mikhail Lukin, physics professor from Harvard told Gizmodo. “What we report in our work is really one of the first discoveries made with a quantum machine.”
Brief quantum computing explanation: A computer is a machine that solves problems by manipulating a huge number of bits, physical systems with two possible options like an on-off switch. A qubit is as if that switch was on or off with some probability while it’s performing a calculation—it’s both on and off at the same time. That switch (or qubit) then takes on a fixed value once the user looks at it. The quantum computer imparts the switch with the probabilities, then solves problems by making the switches talk to one another, kind of like tying them together.
They will never sit on your desk, and they will most certainly never fit in your pocket. Today,…
There are several ways to represent these switches—all you need is a tiny system that obeys the rules of quantum mechanics with two possible states. Companies like IBM and Google are pursuing specially-fabricated, ultra-cold superconducting electronic systems. These two new teams instead trap atoms with a system of lasers. They can use the lasers to assign the specific properties to the atoms, then allow the system to change over time to simulate some problem. Each trapped atom is a qubit, and in this case, one team at Maryland created a different system with 53 qubits, and the other at Harvard, MIT and CalTech created one based on a different physical principle with 51 qubits, according to a pair of papers published today in Nature.
Both systems use trapped atoms, but the way each represents the two potential qubit states are different. In the Harvard/MIT/CalTech machine, the first state is an atom with an electron close to the center, the nucleus, while the second is an atom with a very far away electron. The Maryland one relies on ions (an atom missing electrons), their spins (an innate property whose equations look a lot like those of real world spinning), and an added force supplied by the lasers.
These aren’t the general quantum computers that some think may one day crack the mechanism used to encrypt your passwords. They’re very specific quantum simulators with very specific functions. “These are esoteric problems that we have solved,” said Christopher Monroe, physics professor at the University of Maryland. “In our case we mapped out a phase diagram [how the properties of the system change based on the inputs] of a toy model of magnetism.” Lukin’s team modeled how heat spreads through a specific kind of atomic system. “At the time, what we observed was completely unexpected,” he said.
51 and 53 qubits is definitely the lead for these types of systems. These trapped atom systems stay coherent for longer than the kind of quantum computers that IBM and Google are working on, meaning they take longer for their qubits to collapse into regular bits. But there are other factors when it comes to discussing how good a quantum computer is, including how easy they are to scale up and how much control there is over the qubits and which other qubits they talk to. Researchers everywhere are looking to improve all of these aspects.
Advertisement

This announcement is still a big deal on several of those fronts. “They’re an important step in the development of quantum technologies, in particular for quantum simulation,” Christine Muschik from the Institute for Quantum Computing at the University of Waterloo in Canada told Gizmodo. “These two experiments really mark an achievement where one has a fairly large number of qubits and at the same time, able to control them pretty well.”
It will take a long time before more general quantum computers turn up. Because of the short coherence times, it can take something like a thousand physical qubits to represent a single qubit resistant to errors, the kind that would be used to make calculations. For now, these computers are best suited for physical simulations and optimization problems, explained Lukin.
Ultimately Monroe (who co-founded a startup called IonQ) thinks companies like Google and IBM are overlooking these trapped atom systems. But he thinks that there will be room for several different kinds of physical quantum computers. “There’s room for CDs, magnetic hard drives and tapes,” he said. “I think the same will happen in quantum computing.
[Nature, Nature]


The oceans’s deepest point is Challenger Deep, a chasm almost 11000 meters (36,200 feet) below the surface. Few fish species can stand this dark, hostile environment—but scientists have identified one that flourishes.
Meet the Mariana snailfish or Pseudoliparis swirei, the deepest fish species collected from the ocean floor. Scientists netted samples from 7,966 meters (26,135 feet) at the deepest, but their video spotted some as deep as 8,098 meters (26,569 feet)—and recently, a Japanese team spotted one at 8,178 meters (26,830 feet). That’s real deep.
Advertisement

There’s been talk about a new species living this deep since a 2014 visit to the trench. But now, this slimy boogerboy has an official name.
Scientists exploring the deepest place on Earth — the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean — have…
The fish has a fleshy colored body with transparent skin through which its organs and muscles are visible. Some bigger ones have dark spots on their heads. Scientists at the University of Hawaii, Newcastle University and the University of Washington spotted it on several research trips from 2014 to 2017, pulling up 37 specimens on a mission using the R/V Falkor research vessel. The fish is named for Herbert Swire, HMS Challenger officer credited with discovering the Mariana Trench.

The fish may look fairly fetal, but they’re the top predator down in the trench where there’s little competition to feed on the invertebrates, according to a University of Washington statement. They team published the paper announcing the discovery yesterday in the journal Zootaxa.
It’s not a surprise that this slippery snailfish lives so deep—snailfish do occasionally get caught on film down there including similar species like Pseudoliparis amblystomopsis. DNA analysis determined that P. swirei was a different species all along.
Nice to meet you, Mariana snailfish. Have fun down there.
[Zootaxa via the University of Washington]
Correction: This story previously used an outdated depth of the Challenger Deep. The number has been updated with the corrected value.


You can try as hard as you want, but you’ll never be as cool an uncle as ex-NASA JPL engineer Mark Rober. Using elaborate experiments, he makes learning about science even more entertaining than Bill Nye did, and his latest invention is a sand-filled hot tub that somehow still behaves like water you can swim in.
The hot tub uses the same science as this story from a few months ago, where the fluidization effect occurs when sand is pumped full of air.
The playground you frequented as a kid was probably blanketed in sand to help soften the impact…
As the air works its way up from pipes at the bottom of the hot tub, it makes its way in-between all the granules of sand, reducing the friction and causing the mixture to behave like water. Lighter objects will float atop the sand, while heavier and denser ones will sink right to the bottom. At least until the air supply is stopped, at which point the sand locks into place, trapping everything in it.
[YouTube]



A host of DNA samples “strongly suggest” that yetis are, in fact, local Himalayan bears. Watch out, bigfoot.
An international team of researchers took a look at bear and supposed yeti DNA samples to better pinpoint the origin of the mythological creature. The researcher’s results imply that yetis were hardly paranormal or even strange, but the results also helped paint a better picture of the bears living in the Himalayas.
Advertisement

“Even if we didn’t discover a strange new hybrid species of bear or some ape-like creature, it was exciting to me that it gave us the opportunity to learn more about bears in this region as they are rare and little genetic data had been published previously,” study author Charlotte Lindqvist, biology professor from the University of Buffalo in New York, told Gizmodo.
The yeti, or abominable snowman, is a sort of wild, ape-like hominid that’s the subject of long-standing Himalayan mythology. Scientists have questioned prior research suggesting that purported yeti hair samples came from a strange polar bear hybrid or a new species, though. The analysis “did not rule out the possibility that the samples belonged to brown bear,” according to the paper published today in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B.
Lindqvist and her team analyzed DNA from 24 different bear or purported yeti samples from the wild and museums, including feces, hair, skin, and bone. They were definitely all bears—and the yeti samples seemed to match up well with exiting Himalayan brown bears. “This study represents the most rigorous analysis to date of samples suspected to derive from anomalous or mythical ‘hominid’-like creatures,” the paper concludes, “strongly suggesting the biological basis of the yeti legend as local brown and black bears.”
Researcher Ross Barnett from Durham University in the United Kingdom who investigates ancient DNA in felids, told Gizmodo that he found the study convincing and would not have done much differently. He pointed out that the study could have benefitted from more data on other brown bear populations, or species that recently went extinct like the Atlas bear. But still, “I hope other groups take advantage of the great dataset these authors have created” to help understand how brown bears ended up distributed around the world in the way that they did, he told Gizmodo in an email.
When asked about what a reader’s takeaway should be—and whether this diluted the local folklore—the study author Lindqvist said she didn’t think so. “Science can help explore such myths—and their biological roots—but I am sure they will still live on and continue to be important in any culture,” she said.
And it’s not like the study rules out the existence of some paranormal yeti creature completely. “Even if there are no proof for the existence of cryptids, it is impossible to completely rule out that they live or have ever lived where such myths exist—and people love mysteries!”
[Proceedings of the Royal Society B]


It can be easy to take hyped-up science papers as fact, especially when they involve the most esoteric imaginable ideas. But scientists are taking issue with a hyped-up new paper that claims it can eliminate the need for dark matter or dark energy in our Universe.
Observations of our Universe imply that something like 95 percent of it is comprised of mysterious stuff. The math says it could be explained by an invisible mass called dark matter, and energy causing the Universe’s expansion to speed up called dark energy. Here on Earth, no one has directly detected what dark matter and dark energy are made of, which is causing some worry. That includes a new, widely-shared paper proposing an alternative idea. The paper says that one of the problems that is solved by the presence of dark matter and dark energy—the difference between how a galaxy should rotate according to the laws of physics and how galaxies rotate according to our observations—could instead be solved by tweaking the mathematics scientists have developed to explain the behavior of space and time. Lots of scientists think that this flawed idea didn’t deserve the hype.
Advertisement

The paper’s hype probably stems from how the internet disseminates science news. The hubbub began with an uncritical press release from the University of Geneva about research from their scientist André Maeder. Perhaps, Maeder proposes, one of the core tenets of Albert Einstein’s theory of general relativity are wrong under certain conditions—in large voids where there isn’t any mass. Maybe, he proposes, reconsidering the mathematics governing the very fabric of the shape of space will eliminate the need for dark matter and dark energy.
Eliminating the most important topics in physics with some math sounds incredible, so a few news outlets, most notably Newsweek as well as the usual suspects like the Daily Mail and IFLScience, ran with the story without calling outside sources.
If they had, they’d probably have found out that many physicists don’t think Maeder’s idea holds water. Several, including Stanford dark energy physicist Andrei Linde and Yale dark matter physicist Priyamvada Natarajan, told Gizmodo that it wasn’t worth writing about (despite the fact that it ended up in the fairly prestigious Astrophysical Journal). 
Most notably, science blogger and theoretical physicist Sabine Hossenfelder picked apart the paper on her blog, Backreactions. “For those of you who merely want to know whether you should pay attention to this new variant of modified gravity, the answer is no,” she wrote. “The author does not have a consistent theory. The math is wrong.”
Anže Slosar at Brookhaven National Lab confirmed Hossenfelder’s report. In its simplest form, he told Gizmodo, “The main thing that gives it away is that the paper doesn’t contain a ‘Lagrangian.’ A Lagrangian is like a basic mathematical object that defines a theory. We simply don’t know how to do theoretical physics without having a Lagrangian.” He also said that the idea doesn’t make testable predictions, something that many physicists treat as a requirement. More about that here.
Cosmologists are in the business of figuring out how and why we got here. But if you call their…
Natarajan and physicist Jonathan McDowell from the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics both point out that Maeder doesn’t fully explain away some of the other astronomical observations bolstering dark matter, like dark matter in galaxy clusters bending the path of light rays:

For what it’s worth, Maeder agreed that his “equations are underdetermined,” in an email to Gizmodo responding to Hossenfelder’s post. He pointed out that he felt his interpretation of some cosmology’s core tenets revealed interesting new results.
Advertisement

Re-formulating the mathematics Einstein’s theory of general relativity isn’t such a new thing—lots of scientists have considered that maybe we observe dark matter and/or dark energy because something is missing, somewhere. Except no matter what happens, experimental evidence continues to confirm that Einstein’s theory of general relativity is consistent, regardless of what scientists throw at it.

Why did the under-developed theory get so much press? The paper, alongside its flashy headline, was promoted to a large audience via the Phys.org press release aggregator (which does sometimes write original stories). Content mills picked it up without checking whether or not it was worth writing about—or wrote it regardless.

It’s important to challenge the scientific status quo, of course. However, scientific advancement requires evidence, robust mathematical theories, and a cohesiveness that scientists do not think Maeder’s theory offers.
Advertisement

So, for now, dark matter and dark energy are both alive and well. Which is to say, we don’t know what they are—but they’re still mysteries physicists are working to solve.


These days, it’s no surprise to hear about primates controlling a robotic arm with their brains—even paralyzed humans have done it. But how would a brain need to adapt if one of the limbs was missing?
New research from scientists at several US universities hooked some rhesus monkeys up to a robot arm-controlling brain-machine interface. All of the simian subjects had lost one of their arms for therapeutic reasons years prior to the research—two of them as infants, before their arm fully developed. The scientists could see the brains changing in response to learning to use the limbs.
Advertisement

“We have successfully demonstrated that learning to use a cortically-controlled brain-machine interface to perform a complex, sequential task is possible in chronically amputated animals,” the authors write in the study published yesterday in Nature Communications.

The researchers implanted a series of electrodes into the part of the brain that controls the monkeys’ upper limb, the motor cortex, on either the same or opposite side of the amputated limb. (It’s the opposite side that would have controlled the missing arm.)
The team randomly assigned a set of brain cells to control reaching and grasping in the arm, then trained the monkeys to use the arms in ten to twenty sessions. While the monkey with the implant on the opposite side of the brain from the amputated limb figured out the arm faster, both monkeys eventually got the hang of it. But more importantly, the physical makeup of the brain changed as the amputee monkeys learned to control the limb.
“The amputee animal had very few connections [between neurons],” study author Karthikeyan Balasubramanian, University of Chicago researcher, told Gizmodo. “As it was learning, the network became denser and denser.” The non-amputee had to shut down some of its neurons’ connections before controlling the limb, he said. The data also implied that both monkeys would have done better with further training.
One researcher, Miguel Nicolelis from Duke University, was not wowed by the study—he felt it “did not make any substantial new contribution to the field of brain-machine interfaces,” according to an email—he pointed out that prior research has demonstrated that such a task was possible with less-invasive methods. But University of Chicago professor and study author Nicholas Hatsopoulos explained that the study used invasive methods that could potentially provide better control of the prosthetic arm. Further, the researchers watched as the same neurons changed over a period of forty days as the monkeys learned to use the device.
Advertisement

Regardless, the study adds credence to the fact that the brain reorganizes its neurons as it appears to do in this study. And maybe this knowledge could help amputees control robotic arms with a brain device such as this.
[Nature Communications]


Indonesia’s Mount Agung has played a game of will it/won’t it erupt for months with swarms of earthquakes and occasional ash plumes. That game ratcheted up a notch this weekend when much larger ash cloud shot into the atmosphere and lava made its way to the surface.
The dual-colored plume of ash rose up to 30,000 feet into the sky, making for spectacular images, but scientists are still gathering data to see if it will lead to something bigger. If the volcano does become more active, it could do more than cancel flights and incinerate rainforests. It could give the world a brief reprieve from the planetary heat wave of global warming.
Advertisement

The big question is if this weekend’s eruption is a precursor to something on the level of the 1963 eruption that killed 1,000 or if the volcano will lapse back into brooding over the idyllic Balinese landscape. At the moment, Indonesia’s Center for Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation has raised its warning level to red, its highest alert, and evacuated more than 75,000 people living in the volcano’s shadow.
“[It’s] wait and see if it leads to more intense explosive eruptions,” Erik Klemetti, a volcanologist at Denison University, told Earther.
Later on Twitter, he noted that “the eruption at Agung in Indonesia has been relatively small so far, but with lava at the summit crater, it is anyone’s guess how it proceeds from here.”
If it proceeds to a major eruption (and please remember that’s a big if), the effects on the climate could be fairly substantial.
Explosive volcanic eruptions can send ash plumes high into the stratosphere. In the immediate vicinity, the ash can fall back from the sky and cause breathing problems or dangerous mud flows if it mixes with rain. But tiny particles of sulfur dioxide in the plume can also linger in the stratosphere. There, they reflect sunlight back into space and cool the climate for a few years before falling back to Earth.
Large eruptions can also slow other aspects of climate change. Research published last year shows that the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines cooled the oceans enough to momentarily depress sea level rise rates.
Advertisement

But all of these impacts depend on sulphur dioxide reaching the stratosphere. While satellites have shown sulphur dioxide in Agung’s ash cloud, the cloud is only about halfway to the stratosphere at this point. That means its climate impact is negligible so far. But if the ash cloud rises higher and becomes more potent, its climate impacts would be felt fairly quickly.
“Global surface temperature reacts pretty fast to a big volcanic eruption,” Zeke Hausfather, a climate scientist at the University of California, Berkeley and analyst for Carbon Brief, told Earther. “While it would take a few months for the aerosol cloud to spread around the Earth, we’d see maximum cooling set in over a few months after the eruption and slowly fade away over the next five or so years.”

Hausfather conducted an analysis of what a 1963-level eruption would mean for the global average temperature. It shows that the planet would likely cool 0.1-0.2 degrees Celsius with the peak cool period coming around 2019. A weak La Niña that’s expected to last into the spring of next year could have also have a limited chilling effect on the planet.
Advertisement

Of course, “cool” is used relatively. In Hausfather’s analysis, 2019 would be the coolest of the post-Agung eruption years, but it would still rank as one of the five warmest years on record. That’s because Agung’s sulphur dioxide is far outweighed by  the warming influence of all the carbon dioxide humans have added to the atmosphere. It’s like dropping an ice cube into a pot of water boiling on the stove.
Now if the volcano under Yellowstone decides to erupt, that’s another story. But don’t get your hopes up.


The science of how our genes affect our health, our looks and our personality is still pretty mysterious. Even more mysterious: What happens to your DNA after you spit in a test tube and send it to 23andMe or Ancestry to decode your DNA for a not-insignificant fee.
On Sunday, New York Democrat Sen. Chuck Schumer called for more federal scrutiny of the privacy practices of consumer DNA testing companies.
Advertisement

“Here’s what many consumers don’t realize, that their sensitive information can end up in the hands of unknown third-party companies,” Schumer said during a press conference. “There are no prohibitions, and many companies say that they can still sell your information to other companies.”
“Now, this is sensitive information, and what those companies can do with all that data, our sensitive and deepest information, your genetics, is not clear and in some cases not fair and not right,” he added.
Schumer is right. Your genetic code contains extremely sensitive information. Embedded in your genetic data is personal information about your health, personality, and family history. When you spit in a test tube in hopes of finding out whether you’ve got any Viking ancestry, you’re giving up unfettered access to information about what makes you, you.
And, as Gizmodo has previously reported, the breadth of rights you are giving away to your DNA when you spit in that vial is kind of crazy. It’s all there in the fine print: Testing companies can claim ownership of your DNA, allow third parties to access it, and make your DNA vulnerable to hackers.
There’s no evidence to suggest that DNA testing companies have done anything nefarious with anyone’s DNA. But a company wouldn’t even have to for your information to get exposed. 23andMe, for example, sell anonymized data from your genetic code to its research partners, to help put all that genetic data to use looking for cures to diseases. That’s a use most people probably wouldn’t mind. But that research partner could in turn share your anonymized data in a research journal, and it’s possible someone might identify it. Most DNA companies also share genetic data with other third parties for business purposes. The more your information gets shared, the more vulnerable it is to accidental leaks or hacking.
The Food and Drug Administration does regulate consumer DNA tests when the tests are related to health, like the 23andMe tests for disease markers. But that’s as far as any regulation of the consumer testing market goes. Consumer genetic testing firms are not typically bound by HIPAA, which means the flow of your data is basically unregulated.
Advertisement

Schumer said he’s calling on the Federal Trade Commission to “take a serious look at this relatively new kind of service and ensure that these companies can have clear, fair privacy policies.” The companies, he said, are not necessarily “nefarious” but “they are brand new, and they need safeguards.”
Schumer doesn’t call for anything specific, other than that the FTC ensures that DNA testing companies are communicating clearly what might happen to your DNA after you hand it over. But his statement is significant because so far the FTC has largely shied away from stepping in when it comes to consumer DNA tests. It’s the first time the privacy practices of DNA testing companies has gotten attention from Congress.
Schumer’s remarks appear to have been prompted by the massive marketing push by many consumer DNA companies for Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Ancestry, 23andMe, Helix and others were all offering tests at steeply discounted prices. (You might have even noticed advertisements for some of these services on Gizmodo Dot Com.)
Advertisement

“The last gift any of us want to give away this holiday season is our most personal and sensitive information,” he said.
His primary concern, he said, was that the companies can sell and share data without informed consent.
To be fair, 23andMe, Ancestry and others all do disclose most of the things that might happen if you take their test—but only if you actually read all the fine print.
[NBC News]
Update: This story has been updated to clarify what information 23andMe sells to research partners.


Every day it seems another natural disaster could bring about the apocalypse. Volcanoes. Earthquakes. Hurricanes. Sometimes that list includes asteroids. But despite exaggerated headlines from the usual suspects, there’s no need to worry about the latest nearby asteroid approach.
(3200) Phaethon is a rock five kilometers in diameter with an oblong orbit that intersects Earth. It’s scheduled to make a nearby approach on December 16th. You’ll probably hear more fear-mongering shouting about it until then, but it’s not a rock you should worry about during your lifetime.
Advertisement

Scientists first discovered (3200) Phaethon in 1983, according to a NASA-Jet Propulsion Laboratory data sheet. Its eccentric crosses our own planet’s orbit, putting humanity in a pretty precarious place. It’s been classified as a “Potentially Hazardous Asteroid” for that reason. But the name is a tad misleading.
“[Potentially Hazardous Asteroid] is not a very good term because it implies that things are going to come crashing into us right away,” Matthew Holman, interim director of the International Astronomical Union’s Minor Planet Center told Gizmodo. “It’s over long periods of time—basically, this is more of a plausibility thing.”
Holman went on to explain that “Orbits of asteroids are changing on the timescale of hundreds or thousands of years, perhaps longer. It’s really not a statement about urgency. It’s a statement of plausibility—it’s something that could ever have a collision trajectory towards Earth.”
Holman didn’t speak directly to (3200) Phaethon, but discussed that scientists study these things closely. The community tracks and models the orbits of any potentially dangerous rocks, like they did for 99942 Apophis which briefly caused a scare about a decade ago. Scientists at agencies designed to worry about these things such as NASA would tell you if (3200) Phaethon was truly a threat.
The rock will pass a little less than 6,500,000 miles from the Earth on December 16th, around a fifth of the distance from Earth to Mars at its closest. Mars is very far away—but you still might be able to observe the asteroid with a telescope. The next time it will come any closer is 2093 when it will pass around 1.85 million miles away—still seven times further than the moon. You will most likely be dead by then.
(3200) Phaethon is still neat and strange. It produces a meteor shower here on Earth called the Geminids, but normally it’s comets, not asteroids, that cause these events. There are a few theories as to why that might be, but it’s still a mystery.
Advertisement

Anyway, take a breather and enjoy the holiday season. There is no need to worry about an asteroid.
Update 12:15pm: We spoke to Gareth Williams, astrophysicist from the Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, for a little more detail. Determining whether a large meteor will strike is never an easy yes-or-no answer, he said. As soon as an asteroid is discovered, there’s a large, uncertain region where scientists think it will travel, a region that may or may not include Earth. After subsequent observations, that region will become smaller, and an impact is ruled out once Earth is outside of that region.
But scientists have already modeled this new meteor pretty well. “(3200) Phaethon is not an object we need to worry about at this time,” said Williams. “Over tens of thousands of years the orbits will be perturbed by giant planets and the Earth, so the orbit could come closer.”
Advertisement

So we might not know a lot, but in this case, we know this meteor is not a big deal.


Authorities evacuated tens of thousands of people from 224 points on the Indonesian island of Bali this weekend after the eruption of Mount Agung, which spewed gigantic clouds of potentially life-threatening ash into the atmosphere, CNN reported.
Up to 7,000 air passengers are stranded on the island at the main Bali airport of Ngurah Rai, while Indonesia’s Center for Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation raised its aviation alert status from orange to its highest possible red status, signifying extreme hazards to aircraft. According to CNN, the Indonesian National Disaster Management Agency estimates the cloud was at least 4,000 meters (13,120 feet) tall, though the Australian Bureau of Meteorology later estimated a height of 7,600 meters (24,930 feet).
According to the BBC, increased volcanic activity this year sparked fears of an imminent full-scale eruption involving magma flows, costing “at least $110m in tourism and productivity during the major evacuation.” Per NPR, volcanologist Gede Suantika told Reuters “The activity of Mount Agung has entered the magmatic eruption phase, it is still spewing ash at the moment, but we need to monitor and be cautious over the possibility of a strong, explosive eruption.”
Advertisement

The New York Times estimated about 75,000 people have been evacuated so far in total, while residents and visitors have been instructed to stay at least four miles away from the volcano. Government officials are insistent that the island remains safe for now outside of the area immediately surrounding Mount Agung.
The last recorded eruption of Mount Agung in 1963 happened to coincide with a Balinese Hindu ritual performed once every hundred years, according to Oregon State University. When the volcano began to erupt just days after the ritual, an estimated 50 million cubic meters of magma flowed from the peak. Pressure continued build until weeks later, when a massive explosion occurred:
The sub-plinian eruption was so strong, it was estimated that the top 100 m had been blown off, creating an eruption column almost 10 km high, which collapsed to form devastating pyroclastic flows. These pyroclastic flows travelled east and south at over 60 km/hr, wiping out several villages and causing the death of over 1000 people.
Many Balinese believed the eruption, and particularly the survival of the temple where the ritual was performed, was a bad omen.
However, according to Phys.org, while scientists believe Mount Agung will continue to smoke for up to a month or more, a similar eruption is not considered particularly likely now.
[CNN]


61-year-old stuntman and amateur Flat Earth theory researcher “Mad” Mike Hughes, who planned to launch himself some 1,800 feet up at 500 miles per hour in an untested homemade steam-powered rocket over the Mojave Desert ghost town of Amboy, California on Saturday in some sort of gambit to prove the Earth is flat (spoilers: it’s not), will not be doing any of that that this weekend.
Instead, Hughes told the Washington Post, Big Daddy Government has thrown a few obstacles in his way. Per the Post, the Bureau of Land Management has confirmed it had no record of giving Hughes “verbal permission” to hold the rocket launch on public lands as he had previously claimed, meaning that the rocketeer has decided to delay the launch date and move the location “three miles down the road.”

“I don’t see [the launch] happening until about Tuesday, honestly,” Hughes told the Post. “It takes three days to set up... You know, it’s not easy because it’s not supposed to be easy.”
Advertisement

“Someone from our local office reached out to him after seeing some of these news articles [about the launch], because that was news to them,” BLM spokesperson Samantha Storms told the paper.
It’s not the first time Hughes has planned to launch himself into the sky in a homemade rocket—a prior attempt in 2014 earned himself injuries from intense G-forces and a rough landing—but as the Post noted, he’s only recently become a Flat Earth convert  “after struggling for months to raise funds.” Hence the “RESEARCH FLAT EARTH” slogan on the side of his rocket, and Hughes’ plans to launch himself progressively higher into the sky if Saturday’s planned event was a non-lethal success.
In a Kickstarter post from 2016, Hughes wrote “Mad Mike Hughes always wanted to be famous. So much that he decided ‘What can I do to become and instant super star dare devil?’ So he decided to break the world record for the longest ramp jump in the world ... He is the current world record holder for a ramp rocket jump, but he wants to shatter that record on February 12th 2016 (Just 1 day before his 60th birthday).”
While crowdfunding only raised him $310 of his $150,000 goal then, the Flat Earth connection later helped him raise $8,000 of the eventual $20,000 it cost to build the rocket.

However, the BLM decision seems to have bought Hughes some time before the potentially deadly manned test of his DIY scalding steam missile—time which he apparently does not intend to use to reconsider whether this is a good idea.
Advertisement

“I don’t believe in science,” Hughes previously told the Associated Press. “I know about aerodynamics and fluid dynamics and how things move through the air, about the certain size of rocket nozzles, and thrust. But that’s not science, that’s just a formula. There’s no difference between science and science fiction.”
[Washington Post]


A new simulation produced by NASA’s Data Visualization Studio packs four months of swirling atmospheric activity into a two minute clip that reminds us how unrelenting this past hurricane season really was.
This looks like a timelapse pieced together from images taken by satellites, but it’s not. Rather, it’s a computer simulation based on real data. Specifically, the model is showing the progression of  aerosols—wafts of sea salt, dust, and smoke—blowing through the atmosphere from July 31 to November 1, 2017. This visualization was churned out by the Goddard Earth Observing System (GEOS), a system of math models developed by the Global Modeling and Assimilation Office (GMAO) at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center.

What’s particularly neat about this video is that the hurricanes kind of appear by accident. Hurricanes aren’t aerosols, but because the NASA scientists were tracking the stuff carried by wind around the atmosphere, they were able to visualize the various storm systems as they moved across the Atlantic. NASA explains:
During the 2017 hurricane season, the storms are visible because of the sea salt that is captured by the storms. Strong winds at the surface lift the sea salt into the atmosphere and the particles are incorporated into the storm. Hurricane Irma is the first big storm that spawns off the coast of Africa. As the storm spins up, the Saharan dust is absorbed in cloud droplets and washed out of the storm as rain. This process happens with most of the storms, except for Hurricane Ophelia. Forming more northward than most storms, Ophelia traveled to the east picking up dust from the Sahara and smoke from large fires in Portugal. Retaining its tropical storm state farther northward than any system in the Atlantic, Ophelia carried the smoke and dust into Ireland and the UK.
It’s a gorgeous simulation for sure, but scientists can use models like these to understand all the different things that go on in our atmosphere and how they all fit together to produce weather.
[NASA Data Visualization Studio]


It’s never a nice feeling to watch a fly land on your next bite of food, but as new research shows, you may be justified in wanting to toss that delicious morsel in the garbage.
New research published in Scientific Reports shows that two common flies—houseflies and blowflies—are capable of carrying hundreds of different bacteria—a good portion of which are harmful to humans. Flies are born from fecal matter and rot, so this isn’t a complete surprise, but it’s the first study to analyze the gut contents of these insects in detail, and evaluate the ability of flies to carry and deliver germs. Flies like to hang around humans, as we’re all painfully aware, so these findings are a bit troublesome.
Advertisement

“We believe that this may show a mechanism for pathogen transmission that has been overlooked by public health officials, and flies may contribute to the rapid transmission of pathogens in outbreak situations,” Donald Bryant, co-author of the new study and a professor at Penn State, said in a press release.
For the study, the researchers analyzed the microbiome of 116 houseflies and blowflies from three different continents. In addition to detecting and characterizing the host of germs found within the flies’ stomachs, the researchers also looked at the microbial content of individual body parts, finding that the legs were responsible for transferring most of the microbial organisms from one surface to another.
“The legs and wings show the highest microbial diversity in the fly body, suggesting that bacteria use the flies as airborne shuttles,” said study co-author Stephan Schuster. “It may be that bacteria survive their journey, growing and spreading on a new surface. In fact, the study shows that each step of hundreds that a fly has taken leaves behind a microbial colony track, if the new surface supports bacterial growth.”
Which, yuck. In 15 cases, traces of the human pathogen Helicobacter pylori—the blight that causes ulcers in the human gut—were found on blowflies taken from Brazil. Prior to this study, scientists had never even considered flies as a possible vector for this disease.
Advertisement

The researchers also learned that blowflies and houseflies are very similar in terms of their stomach contents, sharing over 50 percent of their microbiome—an unholy mixture of microorganisms that the flies pick up from their surroundings. Interestingly, flies collected from farm stables had fewer germs than those collected from urban environments.
“It will really make you think twice about eating that potato salad that’s been sitting out at your next picnic,” said Bryant. “It might be better to have that picnic in the woods, far away from urban environments, not a central park.”
[Scientific Reports]


There’s a good reason it’s so difficult for photographers and film crews to capture the elusive snow leopard  in the wild. The animal’s not only a master of stealth, it also sports a patterned fur coat that turns it nearly invisible in its natural habitat. Can you find the big cat sneaking up on its prey in this amazing photo by wildlife photographer Inger Vandyke?
If it makes it easier, here’s a higher resolution version of the same photo, which was snapped by Vandyke during a 17-day mountain expedition in Ladakh, India, a few years ago, where she was fortunate enough to spot the snow leopard stalking and attacking an unsuspecting group of bharal, also known as blue sheep.
Still can’t spot the predator? It’s a good thing you’re not one of these sheep. They’ve got the requisite speed and agility to escape a snow leopard once it reveals itself. You, on the other hand, would be a slow and satisfying meal. Here’s where the snow leopard is hiding:
[Inger Vandyke via The Telegraph]


In 1991, scientists lowered 10 speakers into the water off of a remote Australian island in order to blast a monotonous 57 hertz tone from them for 10 days. Other researchers listened for the distant sound at 15  monitoring stations in ocean basins around the world. This was all being done in the name of science—specifically, to better understand the processes driving climate change.
Scientists have been taking the planet’s temperature for decades using thermometers, satellites, and other methods to track just how much carbon emissions have heated it up. But there’s a problem with those measurements: They only gather information about the surface. It’s like feeling your forehead when you’re sick rather than putting a thermometer under your tongue.
Advertisement

Understanding just how much the whole planetary system is heating up is a crucial piece of the scientific big picture, particularly if we want to know if climate change has any nasty surprises in store.
The 1991 sound experiment was cut off by a powerful storm that destroyed most of the speakers, but still proved wildly successful. “It was a seminal experiment,” Bruce Howe, an acoustic oceanographer at the University of Hawaii, told Earther. “It absolutely showed what it set out to do.”
Despite its success, the researchers’ dream of using acoustics to routinely measure global warming has yet to be realized.
The planet has been warming ever since humans started pouring carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Thanks to thermometers and ocean surface measurements around the world, we basically know how much: About one degree Celsius, as of earlier this week.
We also know this increase would be two or three times higher without the oceans. They take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere, which helps reduce its warming impact, though it does make seas more acidic. The oceans also absorb a lot of the excess heat that works down through the water column.
That’s the global warming we never really see. But it’s still having a profound effect on the world, either through altering marine ecosystems or ocean currents. These changes can have knock on effects on storm systems, sea levels, and fisheries, all things that matter to us here on land.
There’s a network of floats around the world that dive below the ocean surface and take ocean temperature measurements to go with the thermometer measurements we have on the surface of our planet. But there’s no one clear metric to measure all the planetary heat.
Advertisement

It’s with all that in mind that Walter Munk, a renowned oceanographer at the Scripps Institution for Oceanography who celebrated his 100th birthday this year, conceived of his plan to blast the ocean with a low frequency sound. The idea is grounded in a few simple concepts.
The first is that as water warms, sound travels through it faster. Munk estimated that the speed of sound increases by five meters per second for every one degree Celsius of warming. Salinity can also play a role, but temperature has by far the biggest impact. If you’re regularly monitoring sound in the ocean, you can in theory monitor how much the water is warming.
The second is that sound propagates a long ways underwater. In 1960, scientists detonated 200-lb. and 300-lb. charges off the shores of Perth. The sound waves were detected on the other side of the world in Bermuda. That’s a wild story for another time but suffice to say, point proven. For Munk, that meant if you set up listening stations around the world, you could effectively measure ocean warming in different areas as well as the ocean as a whole.
Boom, planetary temperature taken.
If this sounds complicated, well, it is. There were also issues with “sound shadows” created by continents, and underwater topography that could make calculations more difficult, though they could be overcome if the speakers were put in the right place.
Advertisement

But considering that scientists currently use an array of thermometers around the world and satellites coupled with equations to help cover any gaps in coverage to come up with the global average temperature, it doesn’t seem too crazy.
In some ways, what Munk imagined was a much more elegant solution. The system would be self-contained and it would take the whole planetary temperature in one fell swoop.
There was just one problem: Nobody have ever tried to do it.
To start using acoustics to take the ocean’s temperature, Munk needed to prove you could measure the time it took to travel across the ocean to the hundredths of a second. And he needed to find a location to broadcast from that could be heard at multiple other locations.
Advertisement

He chose Heard Island, a remote volcano in the southern Indian Ocean about 2,500 miles southwest of Perth.
“We have chosen Heard Island as an ideal site for an unimpeded transmission to Bermuda,” Munk said in a 1990 lecture organized by the National Academy of Sciences and the Office of Naval Research. “As a bonus there is also an eastward path to San Francisco, and possibly a path through the Tasman Sea to Coos Bay, Ore.”
As the 1991 experiment grew closer, Munk and his colleagues identified 16 listening sites in total. There, researchers would use hydrophones—underwater listening devices—deployed from ships and moored to the bottom of the ocean to hear the 57-hertz sound Munk was planning to play from Heard Island.
In early January 1991, Munk pushed off from Perth with a team of scientists aboard the M/V Cory Chouest, a Navy research ship. In addition to the crew, it carried 10 hydro-acoustic low frequency transmitters for the experiment. They looked like oversized stopwatches, and would be responsible for making the sound heard around the world.
Advertisement

There was just one thing missing: permits. Late in the planning stages, the U.S. and Australian governments decided the researchers would need them to blast a 57-hertz sound at their planned 200 decibels due to the impact it could have on marine mammals.
“The Heard Island Feasibility Test raised the marine mammal question ina big way, and we still must deal with it,” Brian Dushaw, an acoustics expert at the Nansen Environmental Research Center in Norway, told Earther.
To appease the marine wildlife community, Munk and his team scrambled to get a a second ship with observers to join them at Heard Island. They ended up commissioning the R/V Amy Chouest to push off with them and ferry nine marine mammal experts from the U.S. and Australia. They still didn’t have permits in hand when the left shore. If they didn’t come through, it would have made the experiment a no-go, but they were issued a week and a day before the test began from the U.S. and Australia respectively.
The researchers dropped their array of acoustic transmitters into the sea on January 21, and the countdown began to when the tests would commence.
The plan was to begin the experiment on January 26, Australia Day, but the engineers on board wanted to test the transmitters ahead of time to make sure they were in working order. Munk gave them the go ahead. He recounts what happened next in the 1994 documentary One Man’s Noise about his work:
“I had lived that day for two years before it started, what would it be like, would we be heard at all? We really didn’t know if manmade acoustic instruments of this kind would be loud enough to received at such distances. Just before the zero hour, the people in the shop asked if they could test equipment...
I had gone to sleep when we received a very puzzled fax from Bermuda saying ‘we picked you up and what in the hell are you doing? You’re not supposed to start until tomorrow morning.’
And I thought, ‘Oh, that is just wonderful that that question has been answered.’”
The M.V Cory Chouest was able to broadcast 35 times over the next five days before rough seas put an abrupt halt to the experiment. The transmitters were all damaged or destroyed during a storm that churned up 30-foot waves and gale-force winds.
But the 35 transmissions (out of a planned 48) were enough to prove beyond a doubt that sounds could be detected accurately across vast tracts of the ocean. Researchers from India to Bermuda to British Columbia were able to record the sound.
Advertisement

The results were so accurate, Munk was even able to track the path the sound took from Heard Island to distant points. Using data from a hydrograph on Whidbey Island in Puget Sound, he was able to chart a line from Heard Island through what he dubbed the “Polynesian window” south and east of New Zealand. In contrast, researchers in Japan heard nothing, suggesting that oceanic ridges near Tonga and Fiji may have blocked it. The results didn’t give researchers a whole Earth temperature, but they proved the proof of concept and spurred further research into the topic. A similar experiment took place in the Arctic Ocean in 1994, and the results were later confirmed by submarine measurements.
The Acoustic Thermometry of Ocean Climate (ATOC) experiment began broadcasting signals from Pioneer Seamount off central California in 1995 and Kauai in 1997, but both sites were shut down by 1999.
Noise from ships and oil exploration have been shown to have negative impacts on species from whales to shrimp. The observers at Heard Island saw no ill impacts of the experiment, though they were limited solely to ship observations.
Advertisement

Similarly, the ATOC findings show the experiment had “no significant biological impact,” but there’s still room for more research on what putting a permanent sound system in the ocean would mean. There’s also the matter of getting the public on board, which could be the biggest challenge.
“There are three sides to the marine mammal issue: the scientific or what is actually happening side, the regulatory side, and the public relations side,” Dushaw said. “Scientifically, we are in good shape as was demonstrated [by ATOC]. The public relations side lingers, but has died down quite a lot...even though the science and regulatory situation are mostly resolved.”
Scientists have continued to use passive listening to monitor ocean health, including monitoring the impacts of climate change on reefs.
Advertisement

Howe, the oceanographer at the University of Hawaii, thinks that the advances in passive observing since the Heard Island Feasibility Test could ultimately set up a resurgence in broadcasting again in a way that doesn’t impact marine life. And its value could extend well beyond climate change.
“Acoustic methods are one of the few ways to know and measure large scale temperatures. It’s very accurate,” he said. “I look at it as extending our terrestrial infrastructure into the ocean that is our last frontier in some sense.”


Two years ago, the controversial Italian neurosurgeon Sergio Canavero made a brazen announcement: In December 2017, for the first time in history, he would transplant a human head.
The prospect of a head transplant raises all kinds of questions, both technical and ethical. There may be no bigger question, though, than the one that also seems most obvious: From where, exactly, are they going to get this body and head?
Advertisement

At least that’s what Karen Rommelfanger, a neuroethicist at Emory University Center for Ethics, is wondering.
“Why have we yet to ask where the bodies are coming from, either the body with the head or the body with the body?” she told Gizmodo. “We’re missing very important basic details about this and we’re missing the larger picture.”
Canavero has long attracted hatred, skepticism and ire for his plans to proceed with a human head transplant. Initially his lab was based in Italy, but he was forced to abandon those plans to move ahead  with a surgery on Valery Spiridonov, a Russian man suffering from the muscle-wasting Werdnig-Hoffman’s disease. Instead his plans were transplanted to China, where along with a Chinese scientist named Xiaoping Ren from Harbin Medical University he plans to proceed with the surgery on an unnamed Chinese national next month.
In 2016, Canavero claimed to have performed the surgery on a monkey but without reattaching the spinal cord and without publishing a paper on the procedure. This month, he claimed to have successfully performed the procedure on a human corpse, including connecting the spine, nerves and blood vessels. The next obvious step, he says, is a transplant on a living person. Needless to say, scientists are skeptical that he can pull it off.
But whether he can, said Rommelfanger, is a little besides the point. Asking where the bodies will come from is important because it raises questions about both consent and death and the way those things play out differently in different cultural standards. (The American Journal of Bioethics Neuroscience, by the way, has an entire issue devoted to the ethics of head transplants this month.)
In America, the Uniform Determination of Death Act holds that someone is dead when their brain irreversibly ceases to function. China has no such brain death standard.
Advertisement

In research, it’s generally recognized that ethical research on living people requires acquiring “informed consent.”
But, said Rommelfanger, it’s unclear both whether the Chinese research will rely on heads and bodies that have consented and whether those heads and bodies would by Western standards be considered legally dead. If they were both not legally dead and did not consent, that could amount to an experiment that crosses many Western ethical boundaries.
“This is going to be done to someone,” she said. “But the question is whether people will even be given the opportunity to consent or will they just sort of be volun-told,” she said, referencing the problems with unethical organ harvesting in China.
Advertisement

Even more complicated: How do you address consent if someone is dead, but a procedure will make them essentially un-dead?
Rommelfanger expressed concern that this will only be the first of many risky, ethically fraught experiments it opens its door to, in a quest for international acclaim. Already, China has pushed the ethical boundaries in the realm of human embryo editing.
She is also concerned that the technology isn’t being developed for the Chinese people—or really for any therapeutic use at all.
Advertisement

“Why is this technology even being developed?” she said. “We live in a culture that thinks of the human body as something like a car that just needs a tune-up or fix. This is a technology being developed for the ultra-rich, Silicon Valley types that want to download their brains and live forever.”


Dolly the Sheep made biotech history in 1996 when she became the first animal cloned from adult somatic cells. She lived to the age of seven, which is young for sheep, leading scientists to speculate that her premature death had something to do with her being a clone. New research now shows this wasn’t the case.
This whole story can be traced back to a single conference abstract that made brief mention of osteoarthritis in Dolly’s left knee which appeared when she was just five-and-a-half years old. Sheep typically live to be about 10 or 12, so when Dolly died before the age of seven, scientists figured her premature death—and the early onset arthritis—were somehow related to animal cloning. And in fact, it was soon taken for granted that a consequence of cloning was an early grave.
Advertisement

New research published in Scientific Reports now debunks these early suspicions, showing that Dolly’s health complications were not the result of cloning, and that Dolly’s worn out joints weren’t anything out of the ordinary.
Biologists started to suspect this was the case last year following a study of four eight-year old ewes produced from the same clonal line as Dolly. The researchers uncovered evidence of mild osteoarthritis in three of the sheep, and moderate osteoarthritis in one. Examination of these animals, known as the “Nottingham Dollies,” suggested these particular clones aged normally, and that Dolly must’ve been some kind of anomaly.
But the scientists weren’t content to stop there.
“Our findings of last year appeared to be at odds with original concerns surrounding the nature and extent of osteoarthritis in Dolly—who was perceived to have aged prematurely,” Kevin Sinclair, lead author of the new paper and professor of developmental biology at the University of Nottingham, said in a statement. “Yet no formal, comprehensive assessment of osteoarthritis in Dolly was ever undertaken. We therefore felt it necessary to set the record straight.”
Because no original clinical or radiographic records were kept of Dolly, the researchers had to perform a radiographic exam (a kind of X-ray) on Dolly’s skeleton, which is kept in the collections of National Museums Scotland in Edinburgh. Sinclair’s team also examined the bones belonging to Bonnie (Dolly’s naturally conceived daughter), and Megan and Morag (the first two animals to be clones from differentiated cells, or pluripotent stem cells).
Results showed that osteoarthritis was more severe in these older sheep compared to Dolly. What’s more, Dolly exhibited no obvious signs of osteoarthritis in her shoulder, carpal, or hock joints when she was six years old. The overall distribution of osteoarthritis in Dolly was similar to what’s seen in cloned sheep aged seven to nine.
“We found that the prevalence and distribution of [osteoarthritis as detected via radiographic scans] was similar to that observed in naturally conceived sheep, and our healthy aged cloned sheep,” said University of Glasgow professor Sandra Corr, a co-author of the study. “As a result, we conclude that the original concerns that cloning had caused early-onset [osteoarthritis] in Dolly were unfounded.”
Advertisement

Dolly was euthanized in 2003 because she had a form of lung cancer, which is fairly common among sheep.
[Scientific Reports]


For some, sneaking a mouthful of raw cookie dough while baking is an indelible—and certainly delicious—part of the process. But while we’ve been told to avoid dough containing raw eggs, a new investigation confirms that tainted raw flour was responsible for an E. coli outbreak in 2016—a finding that will surely test our temptation to lick the bottom of the bowl.
As you may remember from last year, General Mills had to recall three of its flour products—Gold Medal Flour, Gold Medal Wondra Flour, and Signature Kitchens Flour—following an outbreak of Escherichia coli. That amounted to over 10 million pounds of flour. At the time, E. coli was fingered as a likely suspect, triggering an investigation. That investigation is now officially over, and the resulting study published in The New England Journal of Medicine confirms it. The dry, powdery substance that is flour can host foodborne pathogens, as unlikely as that sounds.
Advertisement

From December 2015 to September 2016, there were 56 cases of E. coli-related illnesses reported across 24 US states. No one died, but one patient came down with a severe form of kidney failure (hemolytic uremic syndrome) brought on by an E. coli infection. Earlier in the year, experts with the US Centers for Disease Control identified the mysterious strain as belonging to serogroup O121, sparking an investigation that eventually linked the illness to the consumption of raw flour.
During the investigation, scientists interviewed the people who got sick, making sure they weren’t using ingredients that were past the “sell by” or “use by” dates. The patients  said they remembered eating raw batter or dough while baking a few days before they came down with symptoms such as diarrhea, vomiting, and fever. Importantly, 85 percent of the patients baked with the same brand of flour, allowing the researchers to trace the outbreak to a single flour processing facility.
The authors of the new report warn that dangerous microorganisms on wheat or other ingredients in flour “can survive the drying process and remain viable in flour for months” in a dehydrated state. This is worrisome news because raw flour is traditionally not thought of as a vector for foodborne diseases.
It’s unlikely that your favorite brand of flour has E. coli lingering within, but as this new study shows, you may not want to take any chances. Last year, the US Food and Drug Administration put out an advisory warning people to avoid eating raw dough, while offering these tips:
Each year in the United States, around 265,000 cases of E. coli-related illnesses are reported, and as this new study shows, some of these could be avoided by not eating raw dough.
Mmmmm, delicious, tainted raw dough....
[New England Journal of Medicine]


Science would probably progress a whole lot slower without the infinite human imagination. We talk frequently about times that science fiction has predicted coming science advances. But this time, the National Science Foundation has let its scientists do the imagining.
This week, the NSF presented its Future of Scientific Imagination, that is, futures extrapolated from present-day NSF-funded research that may one day become a reality. First on their list was a reimagining of the traditional Thanksgiving Dinner.
Advertisement

These days, many of us must travel home from faraway cities to share a meal with our parents. Sure, you can Skype a sibling and your nephew, and then place the laptop at the kitchen table, but they can’t taste mom’s lasagna. And given that its the future, what if they were in space? Plus, these days, everyone is worried about the security of those video calls. So a team of NSF chemists, physicists, engineers, and social scientists considered what a meal might look like in the future.
Perhaps your parents could project you into your family living room via a three-dimensional hologram. Such a video link could be secured through a quantum communications system, like the video call recently shared between the Chinese Academy of Sciences President, Chunli Bai, and President Anton Zeilinger of the Austria Academy of Sciences in Vienna.
As for the meal itself, one day some sort of quantum photocopier might be able to construct the lasagna atom-by-atom. This is a future extrapolation of work done by researchers Markus Greiner at Harvard and Eric Hudson at UCLA whose precision methods use lasers to create new types of molecules. Maybe your pantry would store individual elements instead of cans.
All of this sounds wild, but the quirks of quantum mechanics introduced now-ubiquitous things like lasers and transistors via a quantum revolution that happened decades ago. “There’s huge commercial interest in quantum computing,” Alex Cronin, NSF physics program director explained to Gizmodo. “The dust hasn’t settled yet on what will be the benefits of the second quantum revolution.” Obviously, programming a quantum dinner assembler is many decades away.
The series invited scientists to envision other, less Thanksgiving-related and more Black Mirr0r-esque futures as well, like sensors integrated into clothing, microscopic “robo-ants” that can investigate forest fires, specialy engineered cells that perform specific functions, and living buildings with synthetic leaves.
I hate the future, and even some positive dreams about it can sound incredibly dystopian and surveillance state-y. However, not having to fly on a plane to visit relatives over the holidays sounds nice, and I like the idea of my mom’s stuffed cabbage materializing in front of me.
[NSF]


When an outbreak occurs, in order to effectively figure out how to stop it, researchers typically try to figure out how it started. The answer to that question, though, can be elusive. And as so-called superbug infections have spread across the country’s hospitals, scientists and public health officials have subsequently struggled to understand how these pathogens spread.
Genetics, though, may provide a pretty good clue. A paper published Wednesday in Science Translational Medicine details how the antibiotic-resistant Klebsiella bacteria spread through 26 healthcare facilities and sickened 40 people in 2008. To track the spread, they relied on a combination of genomic sequencing and information about patient movement.
Advertisement

“My research group and many others in recent years have been using these technologies to study how bacteria moves through one institution,” Evan Snitkin, a University of Michigan microbiologist and lead study author, told Gizmodo. “But these organisms permeate healthcare institutions across regions. We wanted to see if you could also track them as they spread across facilities.”
Typically, outbreak investigations rely on information about patient movement, but that data simply isn’t detailed enough to provide solid evidence of how an outbreak starts and spreads. By sequencing the genome of the bacteria in question as it mutated between hospitals, they were able to trace the origins of the 2008 outbreak to a single strain introduced into the Chicago area in late 2007. From there, they were able to paint a picture of how events at one particular hospital contributed to the spread of the infection. Their analysis found that one nursing home was an important transmission hub, with patients from that facility spreading the infection far and wide.
“This was a proof of principle,” said Snitkin. “It could really transform how we do infection control across regions. We could use it to really get a better handle on outbreaks.”
Snitkin said that real-time tracking in a future outbreak could help determine, say, if a hospital needs to crack down on things like hand washing to stop the spread of an outbreak from within or whether the problem is that it needs to better monitor incoming patients.
“You can start to connect the dots,” he said. “In this case, the center of transmission was a single facility and we expect that won’t be uncommon.”
Superbugs that have evolved resistance to multiple antibiotics have become a major problem in the US, with some bacteria evolving resistance to so many drugs there is no longer a readily available way to kill them. According to the CDC, each year  at least two million people become infected with bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics in the US and at least 23,000 people die  as a direct result of these infections. Klebsiella is a member of a class of superbugs known as carbapenem-resistant bacteria. The CDC first detected this type of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in 2000 and since then it has spread across the country to most states.
Advertisement

Snitkin said that the next question is whether the same technique can also be used once a superbug has become endemic to an area, as Klebsiella now is in the Chicago area.
“The big question,” he said, “is what will be the lessons we can use to get a hold on antibiotic-resistance which has become a major public threat?”


To reduce energy consumption, many jurisdictions around the world are transitioning to outdoor LED lighting. But as new research shows, this solid-state solution hasn’t yielded the expected energy savings, and potentially worse, it’s resulted in more light pollution than ever before.
Using satellite-based sensors, an international team of scientists sought to understand if our planet’s surface is getting brighter or darker at night, and to determine if LEDs are saving energy at the global scale. With the introduction of solid-state lighting—such as LEDs, OLEDs, and PLEDs—it was thought (and hoped) that the transition to it from conventional lighting—like electrical filaments, gas, and plasma—would result in big energy savings. According to the latest research, however, the use of LEDs has resulted in a “rebound” effect whereby many jurisdictions have opted to use even more light owing to the associated energy savings.
Advertisement

Indeed, as the new results show, the amount of outdoor lighting around the world has increased during the past several years. “As a result, the world has experienced widespread ‘loss of the night,’ with half of Europe and a quarter of North America experiencing substantially modified light-dark cycles,” write the researchers in the new study, which was published today in Scientific Advances.
This conclusion was reached after analyzing high-resolution images collected by the Day-Night-Band (DNB) instrument that’s onboard the Suomi NPP weather satellite. This sensor features a spatial resolution of 2,460 feet (750 meters), and can “see” light in the range of 500-900 nm (humans see in the range 400-700 nm). Traditional lamps emit some infrared that the DNB can detect, and LEDs produce a lot of blue light that the sensor cannot see. So as cities transition their outdoor lights to LED, scientists often see decreases in the light observed by satellite (which, to the human eye, would seem to have the same brightness).
“For that reason I expected that wealthy countries would appear to be getting darker (even if that wasn’t truly the case). Instead, we observed wealthy countries staying constant, or in many cases increasing,” said Christopher Kyba, lead author of the study and a researcher at the GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences, in an interview with Gizmodo. “That means that even though some cities are saving energy by switching to LEDs, other places are getting brighter by installing new or brighter lamps (that need new energy). So the data aren’t consistent with the hypothesis that on the global scale, LEDs are saving energy for outdoor lighting applications.”
Researchers have been documenting the steady growth of artificial lighting ever since it was invented, and they’ve been wondering when the trend might stop. During the second half of the 20th century, electric light grew at an estimated rate of 3 to 6 percent per year. According to the new study, Earth’s artificially lit outdoor areas grew by 2.2 percent each year from 2012 to 2015, with a total radiance growth of 1.8 percent each year. During this span, nearly 60 countries experienced rapid increases in nighttime illumination between 110 to 150 percent, while another 20 countries experienced growth rates as high as 150 percent or more. Nearly 40 remained stable, with only 16 countries experiencing decreasing rates of nighttime illumination.
The ongoing civil war in Syria is literally sending the country back to the dark ages. New…
Needless to say, and as Kyba pointed out, these rates weren’t consistent around the globe. In developed nations like the United States and Spain, illumination rates remained stable, but most nations in South America, Africa, and Asia experienced growth. In war-torn countries, such as Syria and Yemen, the rates of outdoor lighting decreased. The new study shows that, when it comes to nighttime illumination, most of the world is still playing catch up to First World outdoor lighting standards.
Disturbingly, the results presented in the new study may actually be worse than the data suggests. As previously mentioned, DRB is not able to detect low-wavelength blue light, which humans can see. Our planet, therefore, is even brighter at nighttime than the data suggests.
“This study is important because it validates with data two things we have suspected: that the rate of growth of light pollution continues upward on a worldwide scale, and that the migration of outdoor lighting from older technologies to LED isn’t having the anticipated benefit in terms of global reductions in energy usage,” John Barentine, the resident physical scientist for the International Dark-Sky Association, told Gizmodo. “The latter point is especially important because a number of governments have been convinced to convert their outdoor lighting to LED on the basis of promised reductions in energy usage.”
Barentine, who wasn’t involved in the new study, says the cost savings from the improved energy efficiency of LED lighting has been directed towards the deployment of more lighting, and with important environmental consequences both in terms of light pollution and carbon emissions.
“It’s not hyperbole to describe the global problem of light pollution as both unprecedented and astounding,” he said. “Beyond the energy issue, the main environmental impact of artificial light at night is on the health and wellbeing of practically every organism on Earth, including humans.”
Advertisement

Nighttime illumination is considered a serious environmental pollutant, one that’s disruptive to nocturnal animals, plants, and microorganisms. But it’s also bad for human health as it disrupts the biological circadian rhythm, leading to metabolic disorders.
University of Exeter community ecologist Thomas Davies, who’s not affiliated with the new study, says it’s no secret that artificial light at night is a globally widespread pollutant, but estimating the rate at which it is expanding has been technically challenging.
“This research overcomes many of these technical issues, providing reliable estimates of the global rate of expansion in artificial light pollution,” Davies told Gizmodo. “The numbers are truly shocking, given that we know illuminating the nocturnal environment can have widespread ramifications for the environment and human health.”
Advertisement

Barentine says the solution to this problem is actually quite simple, but it’ll require us to gradually change our relationship with light at night.
“We could instantly reduce the problem by about half if we assured that all outdoor lighting fixtures were fully shielded, meaning that they emitted no light directly above the horizon,” he told Gizmodo. “We could then further reduce the amount of light pollution in the world if fixtures were properly designed and installed such that the light they emit was confined to the task area, and provided in no greater intensity than needed to safely illuminate the task. Lastly, we could reduce the biological harm of our lights by ensuring that they emit as little short-wavelength (blue) light as possible, by choosing ‘warmer’ lamps.”
The most effective way to bring about these changes is through public policy, says Barentine, so we should encourage the encoding of these principles into local, regional, and national laws throughout the world.
Advertisement

These solutions sound simple, and they’re certainly sensible, but it’s rather convenient for those of us in the developed world to impose such lofty standards onto places where nighttime light is being used for the very first time. Sure, we need to change the culture around the use of outdoor light, but let’s start this conversation in places where we already take nighttime illumination for granted.
[Scientific Advances]


Lightning is nuts. It’s a supercharged bolt of electricity extending from the sky to the ground that can kill people. But it can also produce nuclear reactions, according to new research.
Scientists have long known that thunderstorms can produce high-energy radiation, like this one from December, 2015 that blasted a Japanese beach town with some gamma radiation. But now, another team of researchers in Japan are reporting conclusive evidence of these gamma rays setting off atom-altering reactions like those in a nuclear reactor.
Advertisement

Basically, we previously wrote that scientists “think that high-energy gamma rays interacted with nitrogen in the atmosphere, leading to the production of neutrons,” emphasis added. With this new paper, published today in Nature, a team says that they now know this is happening.
Thunderclouds rolled into the Japanese beach town of Uchinada early one December morning in 2015.…
Winter thunderstorms are common on the coast of the Sea of Japan, making it a ripe place to study them. These measurements come from a pair of lightning strikes on February 6, 2017, according to the new paper published in Nature, which left a whole lot of radiation in four detectors between 0.5 and 1.7 kilometers away, around a third of a mile to a mile. Following the flash came an afterglow of radiation for up to a minute. After analyzing the data and the energies of the particles that came out, the researchers felt they’d conclusively observed the results of those gamma rays kicking neutrons off of nitrogen atoms.
This is cool for a lot of reasons. Most notably, you may remember that atoms like carbon and nitrogen get their identity from their number of protons, but they can have varying flavors based on their number of neutrons. This result could “provide a previously unknown channel for generating” rarer “isotopes of carbon, nitrogen and oxygen naturally on Earth,” according to the paper.
At least one other researchers found the results convincing. The observations are a “conclusive indication of electron–positron annihilation,” an expected byproduct of some of these radioactive decays, “and represents unequivocal evidence that photonuclear reactions can be triggered by thunderstorms, wrote Leonid Babich, a researcher at the Russian Federal Nuclear Center-All Russian Research Institute of Experimental Research, in a Nature commentary.
As you’d expect, there’s more work to be done determining just how many of these isotopes lightning creates and what else lightning might create.
Advertisement

But it’s pretty nuts that when a thunderstorm rolls by, it’s as if the earth is operating as a temporary nuclear reactor.
[Nature]


If we’re ever going to truly understand how our Universe works, we’ll need to take lots of different measurements, but measuring can be one of science’s most difficult tasks. How, for example, do scientists measure an invisible thing that passes directly through solid matter without stopping? The inventions scientists come up with to make this possible are often truly incredible—even if the measurements made are totally expected.
Today, scientists at the IceCube collaboration are announcing a relatively esoteric but fundamental particle physics measurement: the rate at which the elusive neutrino particles interact with other particles at their highest energies. The result was consistent with physics theory. But it required a telescope buried in a cubic kilometer of South Pole ice pointing down through planet Earth to measure the properties of particles produced on the other side.
Did I mention the telescope is at the South Pole?
“You’re at the middle of nowhere, the temperature is 20-40 below zero and the altitude is around 10,000 feet,” Spencer Klein, one of the study’s many authors from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California told Gizmodo. “In addition to being really cold, it’s hard to breathe . . . You stay in a station, modern and comfortable, that’s as much like a spaceship as I’ll ever get to see.”
Advertisement

You might remember that atoms are broken into subatomic particles, protons, neutrons, and electrons. But there’s another kind of particle, the neutrino, that barely interacts with regular matter at all; unlike a baseball that gets stopped by a wall, a neutrino can pass through the whole Earth without stopping. But they can slow down a tiny bit. The physicists looked to measure the neutrino cross-section—essentially, how likely these particles are to exchange information with the Earth’s more common particles. It’s like sending a ghost through a crowd and observing the rate at which people were spooked, then measuring whether the spooking tired out the ghost. In this case, scientists only wanted to measure the highest energy neutrinos, those with far more energy than anything created in particle physics experiments like the Large Hadron Collider.
The neutrinos originate from the shower of leftovers created when the Earth’s atmosphere stops high energy particles coming in from space. The neutrinos travel through Earth to IceCube—a detector with 5,160 optical sensors embedded in the South Pole’s ice. They might interact with the atoms in the ice and release a far less spooky particle called the muon, like the screams of the few spooked people. These muons, in turn, emit a flash of blue light, detected by the sensors. The scientists calculated the cross section by comparing the tracks of the neutrinos coming up through the Earth (the ones that had to interact a lot) to those coming from horizontally (the ones that barely had to interact at all).
Nothing unusual showed up in the measurement—it was in line with what the main particle physics theory, the Standard Model, would have predicted. But that alone is important since it can rule out some wackier theoretical ideas. It also demonstrates that the Standard Model is a pretty good theory.
“It’s still pretty amazing,” Deborah Harris, co-spokesperson of the MINERvA experiment told Gizmodo. Essentially, the theory still works for particles a thousand times more energetic than the particles used to establish it. She also liked how the experiment built on other neutrino experiments to do its one-of-a-kind measurement. She said: “these guys are the only ones who can measure these high energy neutrinos.”
Other crazy experiments will soon join IceCube in the hunt for high-energy neutrinos and neutrinos from space like the Cubic Kilometer Neutrino Telescope (KM3NeT), which will work on a similar concept in the Mediterranean ocean. But folks at the KM3NeT were as equally impressed, and one was glad to see the paper land in the prestigious journal, Nature. “This is one of the beautiful examples of what you can do if you have such a machine,” Aart Heijboer, KM3NeT’s deputy spokesperson told Gizmodo. “Although the detectors are motivated by observing astronomical objects using neutrinos, you can do particle physics as well.”
And while the analysis is done mostly at universities, it takes a special kind of scientist to work on a telescope at the South Pole, “These people, even if they make mistakes, they’re motive is to find the truth,” said author Mark Bowen who recently published a book on IceCube titled The Telescope in the Ice. “They have to look reality in the eye and not be fooled . . . It’s amazing what you can find out when you try to find the truth.”
Advertisement

The researchers will continue to refine their measurements—this new paper only accounted for around 10,000 of these super-high-energy neutrinos. They’d like to see what actually happens when the neutrino interacts, while others at the experiment try to understand where neutrinos bombarding Earth from space come from.
But what excited folks at IceCube most was the cool science that could be done with such a neutrino telescope. “This shows that IceCube and experiments with naturally produced neutrinos can be used to do a lot of interesting physics,” said Klein. “In some ways, they have capabilities beyond what you can get at accelerators because of the energies.”
[Nature]


The Food and Drug Agency has issued a stern warning to anyone who might be crazy enough to undertake gene therapy in the do-it-yourself fashion. Definitely don’t do this at home, a statement released on Tuesday implies. And if you do, we’ll throw every law we can at you.
The FDA’s deterrent comes on the heels of a brazen DIY gene therapy experiment, in which a 27-year-old software engineer injected himself with an unproven gene therapy for HIV designed by three biohacker friends. The first injection was streamed live on Facebook in October, and went viral after it was covered by Gizmodo. 
Tristan Roberts sits sandwiched between two men on a couch in a bland DC apartment, with leafy,…
“You can’t stop it, you can’t regulate these things,” patient zero, Tristan Roberts, told Gizmodo at the time.
Apparently the FDA begs to differ.
“FDA is aware that gene therapy products intended for self-administration and ‘do it yourself’ kits to produce gene therapies for self-administration are being made available to the public. The sale of these products is against the law. FDA is concerned about the safety risks involved,” the agency said in its brief statement.
Advertisement

“Consumers are cautioned to make sure that any gene therapy they are considering has either been approved by FDA or is being studied under appropriate regulatory oversight,” it concluded.
It was not the first time a hacker type has injected themselves with something designed to alter their body genetically. Over the past few years, the advent of simpler genetic engineer technologies and services that allow you to design and order DNA on the internet has spurred a burgeoning movement of biohackers that aim to edit the genes of bacteria, plants, animals and even people outside of fancy labs and without the prerequisite degrees.
On a few occasions, the FDA has intervened, such as when the agency questioned whether a green fluorescent jellyfish protein being sold to make glowing beer might be classified as a color additive for food that hasn’t yet been FDA approved. Typically, though, the Food and Drug Administration does not choose to intervene when individuals carry out experiments on themselves, though it does typically strongly discourage such self-experimentation.
The October experiment, though, may have moved the agency to make a statement for a few reasons. While Roberts actually injected the vaccine himself, its development was paid for by a company, Ascendence Biomedical, a mysterious biotech firm with transhumanist leanings. The company plans to sell the “research compounds” used to make the vaccine online and to fund “transparent” clinical trials, beginning next year in places like South Africa, that would skirt typical regulatory oversight by having people like Roberts deliver their own treatment. Self-experimentation is not against the law. So the FDA is instead cracking down on the selling of the supplies that could enable it.
The experiment also raised concerns because, while it involved a gene that research has suggested may one day lead to a highly effective HIV vaccine, there has been no human clinical trials of such a vaccine to date.
It’s unclear from the FDA’s statement exactly which laws the selling of DIY gene therapy supplies may be violating, or how the agency will enforce those laws. Gizmodo reached out to the FDA for comment, but did not receive a response before publication.
Advertisement

The agency singles out CRISPR in particular as a subject of concern, noting that it “considers any use of CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing in humans to be gene therapy.” It does not, however, mention other gene editing systems, though the October experiment relied on a different method. Clinical trials or sale of any gene therapy product already requires approval by the FDA. The clarification here seems to be that the FDA considers any human CRISPR application to be gene therapy.
It’s also uncertain how this could impact businesses like the aforementioned glowing-beer-kit company, The Odin, which sells biohacking supplies including those to modify genes. What does seem certain is that the FDA is drawing a battle line—and signaling to biohackers, beware.
Update 5:40pm ET:  The headline of this article has been updated.


Planets and robots lack hearts and minds, but they’re especially good at impacting ours. In its last days before ending itself, human-built Cassini turned around and snapped this farewell mosaic image of Saturn. Its title: “Farewell to Saturn.”
I don’t have the words to accurately describe the photo’s sublimity. I suggest you take a minute to view it full screen—and you might be left speechless, too. Here’s a high-resolution shot.
Advertisement

Cassini met its end dropping into the ringed planet’s atmosphere on September 15, 2017, after 13 years of Saturn science. Its numerous accomplishments included dropping a probe and discovering liquid methane oceans on Titan and finding plumes on the moon Enceladus. When it finally met its end, it left us emotional.
As its swan song, the “Farewell to Saturn” mosaic shows a dramatic image of the planet in shadows like a crescent moon. But zoom in and you can discern the individual rings, strata of hydrogen, helium, and ammonia in its atmosphere, and even six of its moons, including Enceladus. The image consists of 42 images selected from 80 total taken in two hours. It was taken from a distance of 698,000 miles.
Use this moment to take in an incredible piece of human accomplishment requiring 260 scientists and countless hours to give us a glimpse at (arguably) the most beautiful of the Solar System’s planets.
And finally, with mysteries left unsolved and even the prospects of life, let’s get another spacecraft back to Saturn soon.
[JPL/NASA]


The researcher behind an offshore herpes vaccine trial widely viewed as unethical first secretly experimented on patients in US hotel rooms, according to an investigation by Kaiser Health News.
The experimental herpes vaccine first drew criticism for flouting US protections for patients in human clinical trials by conducting it on the British West Indies island of St. Kitts. In a twist, it turned out that a group of US businessmen, including Silicon Valley billionaire Peter Thiel, had reportedly invested $7 million in the company behind the research in April 2017. (Thiel had secretly funded a lawsuit that lead to the bankruptcy of Gizmodo’s former owner Gawker Media.)
Advertisement

Now, Kaiser Health News reports that the research wasn’t just shady, some of William Halford’s research appears to have been conducted illegally, specifically trials in 2013:
Southern Illinois University associate professor William Halford administered the shots himself at a Holiday Inn Express and a Crowne Plaza Hotel that were a 15-minute drive from the researcher’s SIU lab. Halford injected at least eight herpes patients on four separate occasions in the summer and fall of 2013 with a virus that he created, according to emails from seven participants and interviews with one participant.
Yep. You read that right. He was injecting live virus vaccines into people at a Holiday Inn. Kaiser Health News:
According to the emails between Halford and the patients and extensive interviews with the participant, Halford did not procure written informed consent as required by federal law when testing a live virus on humans. Medical researchers, such as Halford, may not inject patients without oversight by a physician or a nurse practitioner, [Jonathan Zenilman, chief of Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center’s Infectious Diseases Division] said.
Kaiser Health News reported that Southern Illinois University claims it was initially unaware of the concerning research practices, but upon investigation found “serious noncompliance with regulatory requirements and institutional policies and procedures.” Halford died this summer from cancer, but the company he founded in 2015, Rational Vaccines, plans to move ahead with the work.
SIU, by the way, shared a patent on the developing vaccine with Rational Vaccines and tweeted about the work, even though it claimed it was not hip to the questionable research ethos.

The vaccine in question is designed to treat HSV-2, a more aggressive but less common strain of the usually sexually transmitted virus that typically causes genital herpes. While there is no cure, there are drugs to help keep it in check. In addition to outbreaks of painful genital sores, it can put people at increased risk for contracting other illnesses, such as HIV.
Advertisement

In a press release issued when the initial story broke in August, Halford said that he had chosen to conduct the trial in the Caribbean because of cumbersome American regulations.
In the US, Trump and FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb have pledged to speed up the drug approval process. But Halford’s unorthodox practices make a good case for why those regulations are in place to begin with: One trial participant who said he received the injections in Illinois told Kaiser Health News that  he was afraid the vaccine may have given him a new  type of herpes that he didn’t previously have.
We reached out to Peter Thiel for comment and will update the post should we hear back.
[Kaiser Health News]


Imagine if someone came to your house to fix your pipes, then stumbled around your yard blindly with a pair of sticks. Now imagine if you called the company they worked for whose rep said “yep, sometimes that’s how we look for pipes.”
The Guardian reports that ten of twelve United Kingdom water companies admit to using water dowsing rods to find leaks and pipes. Some angered folks are calling for regulatory oversight and penalties for practicing companies. I am calling for a giant meteor, since that might be a more cost effective way to locate underground pipes.
Advertisement

If you don’t know what dowsing is, you’re in for a real treat: It’s the act of using witchcraft to locate something with sticks. When you’re in the right spot, magic makes the sticks cross or wobble. It is a game of pretend.
I have tried to use dowsing rods. They crossed. Because I moved them. With my hands.
The discovery was the twitter work of science blogger and University of Oxford Ph.D student Sally Le Page, whose parents observed a Severn Trent employee using a pair of “tent pegs” as if they were divining rods, reports The Guardian. I wouldn’t call Severn Trent’s response to her tweet an admission—“admitting” implies that you know you’ve done something wrong.

Other companies excitedly owned up to it, too.

Only one company, Wessex Water, said they didn’t, while a Northern Irish company didn’t respond to Le Page’s questioning.
This has to be a joke. It can’t not be a joke.
The UK Water Services Regulation Authority told The Guardian that it’s the job of these companies to work cost effectively, and doing otherwise could earn them a financial penalty. They did not call for a ban of using pairs of sticks to locate pipes.
How would you feel if your electrician tried to fix your wires with a crystal ball? How would you feel if a valet parker used a pendulum to find your car? How would you feel if your doctor tried to locate a tumor in your body with a ouija board? How would you feel if they handed you a bill for these services?
I am not calling an expert to explain how holding a pair of sticks, then crossing them when you feel like it, is an ineffective way to find water.
It’s not like the United States is any better—here, people try to heal their energy with stickers, put butter in their coffee to lose weight, and act like assholes because, uh, stars and planets.
But wow. Just, ugh. Wow. Mnfgh.
[via The Guardian]


If a police officer pulls you over for driving while intoxicated, you could be brought in for a breath alcohol test. If that happens, you’d better hope the test operator doesn’t slather their hands in an alcohol-based hand sanitizer, first.
Alcohol-based hand sanitizers make frequent appearances in law enforcement offices—they’re often found next to the fingerprinting machines, for example. But they emit vapors just like regular alcohol that could disperse through the air and even enter the mouth. A new study confirms that these vapors can cause the breathalyzer to error out—or even report a positive reading.
Advertisement

“In virtually every jurisdiction in the US, there are restrictions about allowing subjects going to be tested to come into contact with alcohol in any form or fashion during the fifteen or twenty minutes, depending on the jurisdiction, immediately preceding the test,” study author Brian Lutmer from the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services Breath Alcohol Program told Gizmodo. “We want to make it clear to the operator, don’t subject yourself to being around alcohol, or allow alcohol fumes to be in the air—because that can also affect the test.”
Prior studies have found evidence of hand sanitizers distorting readings on handheld devices. This time around, the study authors focused on evidential breath alcohol instruments in police stations, the kind that can be used as evidence of intoxication in court.
The researchers tested 65 subjects in a controlled, ventilated room, first administering a handheld breath test like an officer might. Then, one of two operators sanitized with a golf ball-sized dollop of foam or two pumps of Purel and rubbed their hands together until dry. The operators finally gave a series of breath tests to each subject on one of three machines, holding the tube while the subject blew.
Of the 130 tests, 13 resulted in positive breath alcohol concentrations, even though the subject hadn’t drunk anything. Another 41 tests caused the machine to error out, according to the study published last week in the Journal of Forensic Sciences.
There are limitations to a study like this, said Lutmer. Perhaps with more testing or other devices a different set of results might be produced. And when the machine did record a reading, it was lower than those recorded in past studies, including one performed in a hospital setting.
While jurisdictions generally restrict the subject’s access to alcohol prior to a test, they might not mention the operator—the New York Police Department doesn’t mention whether the operator can come into contact with alcohol, for example (see Patrol Guide procedure 208-40). “No alcohol should be used in the immediate vicinity during that deprivation period just to ensure that nothing else can interact with the test,” said Lutmer—by the test subject or the operator.
Advertisement

As far as takeaways go, your first should obviously be don’t drink and drive. But if you’re already sitting in the testing facility next to a breath alcohol testing machine, cross your fingers and hope the operator is taking the same 20-minute no-alcohol-access time as you.
[Journal of Forensic Sciences]


The promise of personalized medicine is a pretty big one: Tailoring treatments to a patient’s genes, their environment or their lifestyle, the thinking goes, will result in treatments that are much more likely to work. The same disease can manifest differently in different people, so why treat patients with a one-size-fits-all-approach?
But a new paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research suggests that, if personalized medicine really takes off, it could actually wind up hurting the pace of biomedical innovation.
Advertisement

Here’s why: Say there’s a personalized lung cancer drug targeted at the specific genetic mutation involved in causing the cancer. Not every lung cancer patient will have that same mutation. Instead, there are likely to be many different biomarkers associated with the same cancer. That means that if a drug works, instead of having a blockbuster drug for a common disease on its hand, the company that developed the drug will have a drug tailored to a much smaller market of patients. And that, the paper suggests, could “reduce some of the incentives for innovation.”
That’s not the only market impact the NBER expects tailored therapies will have. The more effective the therapy, the paper suggests, the bigger the price tag might be. At the same time, it could also reduce the cost of drugs by “allowing more sophisticated pricing systems and potentially decreasing the costs of drug development through shorter and more focused trials.” It could drastically alter what kinds of drugs are actually profitable to bring to market. It might mean that drugs targeting the same disease but different biomarkers could vary significantly in cost. The narrow scope of personalize drugs could also raise the problem of monopolies.
In assessing the future impact of personalized medicine (also called precision medicine) on healthcare spending, the NBER combed through a database of more than 130,000 global clinical trials over the past two decades and looked at trials targeting specific biomarkers.
The US is betting big on personalized medicine with the Obama-era Precision Medicine Initiative, a long-term research endeavor to understand how a person’s genetics, environment, and lifestyle can influence the expression and treatment of disease. Last year’s 21st Century Cures Act furthers the goals of the initiative by encouraging the FDA to develop new regulatory approaches for the oversight of the genomic technologies that will play a major role in developing personalized therapies. The NBER paper is a good reminder, though, that when big change is on the horizon, it’s important to consider all of the possible consequences.


Marine biologists working off the northwest coast of Australia have observed a rare mating display in which male dolphins were seen gathering and offering large marine sponges to females. Scientists have never seen this behavior in dolphins before, highlighting a previously unknown level of social complexity.
Sexual displays are common throughout the animal kingdom, but displays accompanied by objects, or gifts, are actually quite rare. It’s a behavior often seen in some birds, but in mammals it’s practically nonexistent outside of humans. New research published in Scientific Reports shows that another mammal, the Australian humpback dolphin (Sousa sahulensis), also participates in these ornamental mating rituals. But as to whether the female dolphins are actually impressed or persuaded by these behaviors, that remains unanswered.
Advertisement

A team from the University of Western Australia is the first to document this display in dolphins. The new study is based on ten years of observations, which the researchers did by watching multiple groups of dolphins that were geographically dispersed along coastal northwestern Australia.
Male dolphins (and birds, and humans for that matter) offer gifts as a form of peacocking. It’s a superfluous activity that’s completely outside the needs of day-to-day survival, so it serves as a conspicuous display of a male’s abundant physical and cognitive resources. And indeed, the collecting of large marine sponges from the seafloor is not as easy as it sounds.
These sponges are firmly attached to hard surfaces, requiring great strength and agility to remove (keep in mind that dolphins don’t have fingers). Complicating matters is the fact that these sponges are not helpless—they spew a chemical defense to prevent overgrowth and predation. The dolphins, therefore, are likely having to endure some toxic discomfort when extracting the sponges. This activity also requires some intelligence, which could be another sign of sexual fitness. Importantly, only males were observed to collect and present the sponges, and they only did so in the presence of sexually mature females.
“It could be gift-giving in the sense that humans do it—diamond rings [and] roses and the like—in order to impress a female or to suggest that he is somebody that would be a really wise idea to mate with,” Simon Allen, the study’s lead researcher, told ABC News in Australia. “It appears the females tend to be ignoring the male and then it kind of ramps up to the point where he’s a bit frustrated and he tosses the sponge in the direction of the female.”
Advertisement

During the displays, the males were also seen making a physical posture called a “banana pose” and producing a “trumpeting” sound from their blowholes. The whole thing is quite the production.
The first time this behavior was seen, the scientists watched as a male dolphin, in the presence of a female dolphin and her calf, dove down to the seafloor, removed a large marine sponge, balanced it on his beak, and pushed it towards the female.
“We were at first perplexed to witness these intriguing behavioural displays by male humpback dolphins, but as we undertook successive field trips over the years, the evidence mounted,” said Allen  in a statement. “Here we have some of the most socially complex animals on the planet using sponges, not as a foraging tool, but as a gift, a display of his quality, or perhaps even as a threat in the behavioural contexts of socializing and mating.”
Advertisement

Indeed, as Allen hints, these displays may not be as romantic as they sound. As the researchers write in their study:
Alternatively, and perhaps more likely, the presentation and, in particular, tossing of the large sponges in the direction of the female may serve to intimidate, analogous to branch dragging and shaking or the hurling of rocks by male chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) to enhance their charging displays during sexual coercion. Indeed, a threatening or dominance aspect to such displays might also explain the thrashing of plant material and other objects by Amazon river dolphins.
Dolphins are a tremendously hierarchical species, and the sponge gathering (as strange as it may sound) could be a way for males to reinforce their place within the social order, and thus, their suitability/desirability as potential mates. Surprisingly, some large adult male dolphins were seen working together in pairs. It may be a weird case of, in the words of the researchers, an example of “cooperating to compete.” Or in other words, the dolphin version of a “wing man.”
Advertisement

“The formation of alliances between adult males for the purposes of coercing females is uncommon, since mating success cannot be shared,” said study-co-author Stephanie King. “This is a new finding for this species, and presents an exciting avenue for future research.”
For sure—there’s still lots to learn about these dolphins and how these ornamental displays are tied to mating, attraction, and the maintenance of the social hierarchy. Importantly, the researchers aren’t even sure if these sexual displays are actually improving the male dolphins’ odds of mating. The scientists say that behavioral and genetics studies will be required to suss this all out. But there’s one thing we can be very certain about, and that’s the high degree of social complexity among these aquatic mammals.
[Scientific Reports]


Facts are built into the fabric of the Universe, but science can sometimes be a problematic tool for establishing them. On occasion, even the most exciting discoveries can be overturned with more evidence.
Take the flowing water on Mars. Two years ago, NASA made a baffling announcement based on the appearance of seasonal flows, called “recurrent slope lineae” (RSL). Obviously everyone’s first thought was life. But a new study seems to have cast doubt on whether water was truly the cause of these features. Maybe it was sand all along.
Advertisement

“Flowing liquid water in the current Martian climate has always been an extraordinary claim,” the authors write in the study, published in the journal Nature Geoscience yesterday. “The observations and interpretations presented here suggest that RSL are no longer extraordinary evidence.”
Scientists established the original evidence for water on Mars based on temperature-dependent darkening of the narrow, streaky RSL. Data from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter implied that the darkening was caused by water flowing and hydrating the salts, according to a paper also published in Nature Geoscience.
The new study from a team of researchers in the United States and the United Kingdom took a look at the Martian topology. It found that the specifics of these darkened RSL, especially their length based compared to the slope of the hill, would be better explained by flowing grains of sand. More water would flow further down a slope—something not observed.
The study doesn’t rule out water completely—there’s definitely evidence for some at the poles. But it casts doubt on just how much flowing water there is and on the potential presence of life. “Liquid water involved is likely to be low volume with low activity, inhospitable to known terrestrial life, alleviating planetary protection concerns,” the paper continues.
But there’s still work to do in order to understand the RSL. “Full understanding of RSL is likely to depend upon on-site investigation of these features,” said Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Project Scientist Rich Zurek, not involved in the study, in a NASA JPL statement. “In particular, a full explanation of how these enigmatic features darken and fade still eludes us. Remote sensing at different times of day could provide important clues.”
And if a humans do visit, planetary protection concerns will remain until the site is fully understood “to guard against introducing microbes from Earth,” said Zurek, “at least until they are definitively characterized.”
[Nature Geoscience]
Update, 11:30AM EST: Tanya Harrison, Director of Research for Arizona State University’s Space Technology and Science (“NewSpace”) Initiative, told Gizmodo she felt there were still some things a dry flow like this couldn’t explain—seasonality, for example. “As the paper states, these observations point toward volatiles (i.e., water) being involved in some fashion. Even if it’s a minuscule amount of liquid water, that’s still a big deal for Mars.”


61-year-old DIY enthusiast and stuntman “Mad” Mike Hughes is planning his first manned launch of a homemade, $20,000 steam-powered rocket with “RESEARCH FLAT EARTH” written on the side on Saturday, the Associated Press reported.
According to the AP, Hughes says he expects his new rocket to hurl him through the skies above the Mojave Desert ghost town of Amboy at up to 500 miles per hour for roughly one mile, attaining a peak altitude of 1,800 feet before it deploys two parachutes. Hughes is a proponent of the Flat Earth theory; the Research Flat Earth group is his main sponsor. Hughes does not “believe in science,” which he told the AP has “no difference” from science fiction.

“I know about aerodynamics and fluid dynamics and how things move through the air, about the certain size of rocket nozzles, and thrust,” he added. “But that’s not science, that’s just a formula. There’s no difference between science and science fiction.”
Advertisement

“If you’re not scared to death, you’re an idiot,” Hughes, who once reassured Ars Technica that he has a high I.Q., told the AP. “It’s scary as hell, but none of us are getting out of this world alive.”
Adding to the already somewhat troubling nature of the launch, the event will simultaneously serve as the launch of Hughes’ California gubernatorial campaign (because sure, whatever). Though the AP said the event would be live-streamed on Hughes’ YouTube channel, his website says it will be “Available on Internet PPV.”
As Ars Technica noted, Hughes has done a lot of this kind of thing, winning a Guinness World Record in 2002 for jumping “102 feet in a Lincoln Town Car stretch limo.” He also survived a manned steam rocket flight in 2014, traveling 1,374 feet and earning himself three days of recovery from extreme g-forces and a rough descent, the AP wrote.

Videos of his prior test flights showed that the rockets did not explode in a cloud of steam in mid-air, which is good, but also did not exactly appear to be equipped with the latest-generation parachute technology.

Hughes certainly seems to be aware that blasting yourself into the sky is not something that most people would consider a particularly good idea, given possible outcomes like being scalded by red-hot steam or smashing into the ground at lethal speeds. But he also seems pretty determined to do this, so I guess we all owe it to him to hope for the best possible outcome.
[AP]


Scientists know of 750,000 or so asteroids and comets—and all of them are part of this fine solar system. That is, all of them but one. And as new research shows, it’s weird as hell.
Today, scientists are reporting their analysis of ‘Oumuamua, an interstellar object spotted last month. The oddly-shaped, fast-moving rock immediately surprised astronomers with its chemical makeup and other properties, which implied there should be far more interstellar objects floating around than previously thought.
Advertisement

“The presence of ‘Oumuamua suggests that previous estimates of the density of interstellar objects were pessimistically low,” the authors write in the study published today in the journal Nature.
‘Oumuamua’s story begins on October 19, 2017 when the Hawaiian Pan-STARRS1 telescope system spotted it. Scientists named it A/2017 U1, but immediately realized that they were looking at something strange, since its orbit’s shape was extremely hyperbolic. That means rather than orbiting the Sun, this thing came and went with enough speed to “clearly” imply it was from outside the solar system.
The brief visit made the planet difficult to name—the minor planet designation scheme doesn’t allow for naming something only seen once. Researchers created a new classification for these interstellar objects, and gave it a Hawaiian name that “reflects the way this object is like a scout or messenger sent from the distant past to reach out to us,” according to a Minor Planet Center communication. Pronounced “Oh-moo-ah-moo-ah,” it means “a messenger from afar arriving first.”
Observations of the wildly-varying light from ‘Oumuamua showed scientists it wasn’t spherical, but probably had a cigar shape measuring  800 meters by 80 meters by 80 meters—that’s something almost as tall as the Statue of Liberty, but half a mile long. It’s red, and likely made from metal and carbon-rich matter like some comets. Scientists also observed that it didn’t have a fuzzy, comet-like appearance, which is surprising given the fact that most observed rocks originating from the distant Oort cloud are comets.
This set up a conundrum: Scientists assumed interstellar objects would behave more like comets than asteroids until ‘Oumuamua came along. If they’re more like asteroids, that implied to the team that there are way more of these interstellar rocks in the Solar System than originally thought, according to the paper. It also adds another factor when considering Earth impacts. “Impact from an interstellar object would be far more energetic than from a solar system object with similar mass, due to the larger impact speed,” the authors write.
As far as where it came from—no one knows yet. The paper suggests a nearby debris disk, or that its trajectory was changed by some planet or other comet—maybe it was set off by the undiscovered Planet Nine. All that is informed speculation, of course.
Advertisement

Scientists will never get to see ‘Oumuamua again as it speeds off—but it brief visit suggests might not be the last time scientists spot something like this.
[Nature]


Canada is among the few countries in the world where genetically engineering human embryos isn’t just illegal, doing so could land you behind bars.
In the United States, using genetic engineering techniques such as CRISPR to make genetic alterations that can be passed on to future generations is illegal, but scientists are still allowed to conduct experiments that include genetically altering embryos, so long as those embryos never have the chance to become babies.
Advertisement

In Canada, though, even basic research that might be categorized as “germline editing” risks a hefty fine or up to 10 years in prison. Now Canadian scientists and ethicists have joined forces to speak out against the prohibition and its damaging impact on Canadian science.
“Scientists here feel left behind,” Vardit Ravitsky, a University of Montreal bioethicist, told Gizmodo. “They have the technical capacity to do this research and they have these good research questions. The only reason they’re not doing it is legal.”
Canadian scientists have found themselves left out of the conversation as even countries like the US, with its relatively strict prohibitions on human germline editing, are breaking new ground with CRISPR at a rapid clip. In China, over the past two years, scientists have already edited the DNA of embryos several times over. In the US, in August scientists genetically modified a human embryo for the first time, removing a disease-causing genetic mutation, prompting calls for the country to lift a ban on federal funding for research that involves germline editing. In the UK, scientists have been given the green-light to edit genes in embryos for research, too.
Standing in the way of Canadian scientists is a section of Canada’s Assisted Human Reproduction Act, a set of laws forged in the aftermath of advancements in stem cell research, the Human Genome Project and Dolly the Sheep, as the public worried about scenarios like human cloning. The law makes it a criminal act to alter the genome of a cell or embryo in such a way that the change might be transmitted to descendants.
“The main logic here is a slippery slope logic. If you allow us to genetically alter an embryo for research, what’s next?” said Ravitsky. “But embryos don’t fall by chance into a uterus. By banning research you are banning research that is not just about making babies. This research can promote our understanding of reproductive development, of the development of diseases. It makes no sense to say no to research.”
Ravitsky said that Canada would do better to have a law closer to the one in the US, which allows research but not the implantation of altered embryos in a uterus.
Advertisement

“In a few years, if we decide it’s safe and we want to move ahead with the first gene-edited pregnancy, we can decide then,” she said. “We don’t have to decide now.”
Earlier this month, Bartha Knoppers, a health-policy expert at McGill University, presented a consensus statement from Ravitsky and others at an annual meeting of stem cell and regenerative-medicine researchers arguing that “basic and pre-clinical research on human germ cells and embryos in the earliest stages of development should be allowed.” The group is also arguing for Canada to legalize so-called “three-parent babies,” a procedure legal in the UK in which the risk of mitochondrial disease is eliminated from an embryo by giving it a tiny bit of donor DNA. The group recently formed a formal group to advocate for the policy changes, the Coalition for Research on Informed Science Policy, or CRISP.
“Right now, we’re literally importing sperm from the US because it can’t be bought or sold here. Surrogacy is illegal,” Kerry Bowman, a bioethicist at the University of Toronto not involved with CRISP, told Gizmodo. “There is reason to be cautious, but hanging on to an outdated law like this and letting our scientists fall further behind is good for no one.”
Advertisement

Allowing germline editing even just for research though, would likely require an act of Parliament to change Canadian federal law. A statement from Canada’s health ministry, though, might allow a reinterpretation of the existing law that could pave the way for Canadian scientists to do some CRISPR research in embryos.
“People think we want the wild west, but if you look at the UK they actually have more robust oversight even though they are allowing this research to happen. Safety concerns don’t justify a criminal ban, they justify appropriate oversight,” said Timothy Caufield, a health policy expert at the University of Alberta. “This research is in early days, we should be careful not to hype the potential benefits. But we also need to be careful not to hype the harm. Designer babies are not just around the corner.”


A new analysis of ancient rock art demonstrates that humans hunted with dogs on the Arabian Peninsula over 8,000 years ago—and it looks like those dogs wore leashes.
There are lots of questions around the origin of dog domestication, such as when, where, and how it happened. But a newly analyzed set of panels depicts scenes of leashed dogs hunting alongside humans. Not only would this be the “earliest evidence of dogs on the Arabian Peninsula,” according to the study published recently in the Journal of Anthropological Archaeology, but it’s also the “earliest evidence of leashes.”
Advertisement

“The panels . . . indicate that dogs were a critical part of Pre-Neolithic hunting strategies in Arabia,” according to the paper.
Archaeologists found the panels in two sites in northwestern Saudi Arabia, one called Jubbah near an oasis and another called Shuwaymis near a wadi, a dry valley that floods and becomes more lush during wetter periods. These sites depict thousands of animals carved into rock, including 193 dogs at Jubbah and 156 dogs at Shuwaymis. Some, but not all of the dogs have lines carved into the stone from their neck to their presumed owners. The scientists also note that they have features similar to the modern-day Canaan dog.
Dating rock art requires inferences based on the location of the rocks and the placement of the carvings on the rock which makes accuracy difficult, according to the study. One archaeologist, Paul Tacon from Griffith University in Australia, told Science that the time estimate for this study, between 7,000 and 10,000 years ago, is sound. However, he cautioned that the lines might be symbols rather than physical representations of leashes.
The study’s importance lies in how it might shed light on human behavior in the  Arabian Peninsula in the pre-Neolithic era, in which dogs would have played an important role. It additionally “highlights the potential of rock art in providing evidence for the control and use of early domestic dogs.”
The scientists now need to do further digging and see if they can actually find dog remains dating back to the era.
[Journal of Anthropological Archaeology]


Martha Lillard spends half of every day with her body encapsulated in a half-century old machine that forces her to breathe. Only her head sticks out of the end of the  antique iron lung. On the other side, a motorized lever pulls the leather bellows, creating negative pressure that induces her lungs to suck in air.
In 2013, the Post-Polio Health International (PHI) organizations estimated that there were six to eight iron lung users in the United States. Now,  PHI executive director Brian Tiburzi says he doesn’t know anyone alive still using the negative-pressure ventilators. This fall, I met three polio survivors who depend on iron lungs. They are among the last few, possibly the last three in the US.
Their locations form a line that cuts directly through the heart of the country—one in Dallas, one outside  Oklahoma City, and one in Kansas City, Missouri—what some call tornado alley.

Storms have always been especially difficult for Lillard because if the iron lung loses power, she could die in her sleep. She lives alone, aside from three dogs and 20 geckos that she keeps in plastic terrariums filled with foliage and wool. “They like to sleep in the fleece, wrapped up like a burrito,” she said as she introduced me to a few of her favorites.
Advertisement
Advertisement

Lillard sleeps in the iron lung, so it is in her bedroom. Even though the tank is a dull canary yellow it pops in the room, which is painted chartreuse—like the rest of the house, inside and out—and filled with toys and dolls that she has collected throughout her lifetime. On the walls hang a crucifix, a plush Pink Panther, and mirrors strategically placed so she can see around the room and into the hallway.
Her iron lung has portholes and windows on the side; a pressure gauge at the top. The machine is actually cobbled together from two iron lungs. One, the March of Dimes gave her when she was a child. The other, she bought from someone in Utah, after she haggled him down from $25,000 to $8,000. The body has also been modified over the years. Her grandfather invented a motorized pulley system that closes the bed tray into the tank after she climbs in. He also replaced the brushed aluminum mirror above the neck slot with a real mirror so that she could have a clear view to the rest of the room when she’s locked in the canister. A local engineer used a motor from an old voter registration device to build a mechanism that tightens the collar around her neck after she slips her head through the portal. The fan belts and half-horsepower motor have been replaced about ten times.
When Lillard is outside of the tank, she can breathe using a positive-pressure ventilator, a smaller device that pushes air into her lungs. But that instrument doesn’t provide the same relief as when she puts her entire body into the 640-pound, 7-and-a-half-foot-long apparatus. Plus forcing air into the lungs can cause inflammation or damage the air sacs. When she’s sick, she can only heal if she spends full days in the iron lung. She calls herself “a human battery” because she has to recharge every day.
Lillard is 69, 4-foot-9 and weighs 98 pounds. Her back is arched from scoliosis. She didn’t get surgery when she was a child because doctors didn’t expect her to make it to her teenage years and she never had an operation as an adult because polio survivors can stop breathing when they’re on anesthesia.
She was infected with polio at her 5th birthday party at the Joyland Amusement Park on June 8th, 1953. Nine days later, her neck ached so bad she couldn’t raise her head off the pillow. Her parents said it was probably just a summer cold, but Lillard could tell they were afraid. They took her in for a spinal tap, which confirmed it was polio.
Lillard asked me to take out a photo album so she could show me snapshots of her youth as she sat on a blanket on the floor of her living room, where it’s more comfortable for her to sit when she’s out of the machine. “I wanted to be a ballerina. That was my big wish. I started walking on my toes when I was one, and I just constantly was after ballerina dolls. We didn’t have a dance school in town until I was five and my mom was going to enroll me that year, but I got sick,” she told me. “I think now of my life as a ballet. I have to balance so many things. It’s a phenomenal amount of energy I have to use to coordinate everything in my life.”
“All the mothers were just terrified because people were just getting it right and left,” Lillard said. “They didn’t know if it was a virus or bacteria or how you caught it.”
Advertisement
Advertisement

Poliomyelitis is a highly contagious disease that can cause paralysis of legs, arms, and respiratory muscles. “The polio virus is a silver bullet designed to kill specific parts of the brain,” Richard Bruno, a clinical psychophysiologist, and director of the International Centre for Polio Education said. “But parents today have no idea what polio was like, so it’s hard to convince somebody that lives are at risk if they don’t vaccinate.”
When Lillard was a child, polio was every parent’s worst nightmare. The worst polio outbreak year in US history took place in 1952, a year before Lillard was infected. There were about 58,000 reported cases. Out of all the  cases, 21,269 were paralyzed and  3,145 died. “They closed theaters, swimming pools, families would keep their kids away from other kids because of the fear of transmission,” Bruno said.
Children under the age of five are especially susceptible. In the 1940s and 1950s, hospitals across the country were filled with rows of iron lungs that kept victims alive. Lillard recalls being in rooms packed with metal tubes—especially when there were storms and all the men, women, adults, and children would be moved to the same room so nurses could manually operate the iron lungs if the power went out. “The period of time that it took the nurse to get out of the chair, it seemed like forever because you weren’t breathing,” Lillard said. “You just laid there and you could feel your heart beating and it was just terrifying. The only noise that you can make when you can’t breathe is clicking your tongue. And that whole dark room just sounded like a big room full of chickens just cluck-cluck-clucking. All the nurses were saying, ‘Just a second, you’ll be breathing in just a second.’”
Advertisement

In 1955, Americans finally had access to the polio vaccine developed by Jonas Salk. “It was hailed as a medical miracle and the excitement about it was really unparalleled as far as health history in the United States,” Jay Wenger, director of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’s polio-eradication effort told me. “No one who remembers the 1950s, in terms of polio, wants to go back there and be in that situation again.”
Advertisement
By 1961, there were only 161 reported cases in the US. But in 1988, there were still an estimated 350,000 cases worldwide. That year, the World Health Organization, UNICEF, and Rotary International began an aggressive campaign to end polio everywhere. Last year there were 37 cases reported in Afghanistan, Nigeria, and Pakistan.
According to Bruno, if an infected person in either of those countries visited family in an area like Orange County, California, where many parents are opting out of vaccinating their children, “then we could be talking about the definition of a polio epidemic.”
Advertisement

Wenger said that’s why the Gates Foundation recently joined the other organizations in the global effort to eradicate polio. “If there’s a virus anywhere in the world, it could just come back in,” Wenger said. “Some little kid could get on a plane and fly in and reinfect an area. And if the kids in that area are not vaccinated, you could start the virus circulating again.”
But even though the last wild case of polio in the US was in 1979, it still haunts this country. “A lot of people think of polio as a disease of the past and don’t realize there are people here today that are still suffering the effects of polio.” said Brian Tiburzi, executive director of Post-Polio Health International (PHI), an advocacy group for the estimated 350,000 to 500,000 polio survivors living in the US.
Some polio survivors were only partially impaired or got better. For instance, Mia Farrow only had to spend eight months in an iron lung when she was nine, before going on to become a famous actress and polio advocate. And golfer Jack Nicklaus had symptoms for two weeks as a child, but as an adult only had sore joints.
Advertisement
Advertisement

But many polio victims have breathing difficulties for the rest of their lives, or have issues later in life when overworked neurons burn out, a condition called post-polio syndrome. “I breathe 20 percent of what you breathe with every breath,” Lillard explained to me. “You still have the neurons that work the muscles that you breathe with.”
Lillard offered to let me try out her iron lung about an hour after I met her. She showed me how to operate the ad hoc mechanisms that would lock me into the tank and tighten the collar around my neck like a camera shutter—tight enough that no air can escape, but loose enough that I don’t choke myself.

I climbed into the bed tray, slipped my head through the hole, tightened the collar, then flipped the switch that controls the pulley that closes the tray into the main canister. As the system locked me in, I had a quick wave of claustrophobic panic and my instinct was to take deep breaths, but a motor was controlling that. I tried to describe the feeling to Lillard, but the machine was inhaling for me, so no sound came out. I had to wait a moment for the release.
Advertisement
Advertisement

“Let the air out of your lungs and let it breathe for you,” Lillard said. “Imagine if you were real tired of breathing, how good that would feel—if you were struggling to take a breath.”
Being in an iron lung was the most relief and discomfort I have ever felt at the same time. I slowly got used to the mechanical rhythm and began feeling a little relaxed. I tried closing my mouth, and air still rushed in through my lips. I felt like a vacuum cleaner.
As I climbed out, Lillard warned me to be careful and not break any of the switches or pulleys. If I  damaged anything, and she wasn’t able to get someone to repair it within a few hours, she might not have made it through the night. A few weeks earlier, the collar-opener broke and she was trapped inside. Fortunately, her housekeeper was there to help her force it open, and a friend who does custom metal fabrication for motorcycles, planes, and other machines, Tony Baustert, came a few hours later to repair it.
Advertisement

Recently, an ice storm knocked her power out for three days and the generator malfunctioned. The fire department came over but they wouldn’t run a power line from down the street or provide a temporary generator, Lillard said. Fortunately, one of the firefighters came by when he was off-duty and fixed the generator. During the panic, Lillard thought about Dianne Odell, a polio survivor who died in her iron lung in Memphis in 2008, after she lost power during a storm. Her father and brother-in-law took turns pumping the bellows by hand but couldn’t sustain the rhythm long enough to keep her alive.
Understandably, Lillard lives in a constant state of anxiety over the functionality of her iron lung. But she said the company responsible for servicing the device, Philips Respironics, hasn’t been much help. She recalls one time when a repair person disassembled the machine to make a repair, then tried to leave before putting it back together. Another technician took it apart and couldn’t figure out how to fix it, so Lillard had to call another mechanically skilled friend, Jerry House, to help.
These days her biggest concern is the canvas spiral collar that creates the seal around her neck. She used to have to replace them every few months after they wore out and stopped keeping a seal. Back then she could get them for a few dollars each, but she recently bought two from Respironics for a little more than $200 each. She said the company wouldn’t sell her any more because they only have ten left. For years she’s been trying to find someone to make a new collar. She uses Scotch guard on her current supply and tries not to move her neck around, hoping to make them last as long as possible.
Advertisement
Advertisement

I asked her what happens if she runs out. “Well, I die,” she said, in a matter-of-fact tone.
Iron lungs became the responsibility of Philips  through mergers and acquisitions. The March of Dimes supplied and serviced iron lungs until the end of the ‘60s, around the same time the J.H. Emerson company stopped manufacturing the product. Once Salk’s vaccine diminished the need for polio support and advocacy, March of Dimes handed off iron lung responsibilities to Lifecare Services. Medical supply company Respironics acquired Lifecare in 1996, then merged with Philips in 2007.
Over the years, Lifecare and Respironics have tried to get more polio survivors to use alternative breathing aids—devices that were newer, cheaper, easier to service, and didn’t require parts that were no longer manufactured. In 2004, Respironics gave iron lung users three options: transition to another ventilator device, keep using the iron lung but know that Respironics may not be able to repair the device, or accept full ownership and responsibility of the iron lung and find someone else to repair it. According to Post-Polio Health International, responses “ranged from ‘it is understandable that repairing a device made that long ago would be difficult’ to ‘a multi-million dollar company should be able to just make parts.’”
Advertisement

Philips Respironics denied multiple requests to comment for this story. But polio advocates believe the company can do more to help polio survivors who have struggled with the effects of polio their entire lives.
“It would be helpful if the people who are contractually responsible and morally and ethically responsible for polio survivors did something to help these people,” said International Centre for Polio Education director Richard Bruno. “It would be like if you bought a used car, you drove it a block and the car stopped working. Then you go back to the car dealer and you say, ‘Hey, the car stopped working.’ And they say, ‘Well too bad, you bought it and that’s the way life goes.’ Except instead of a car it’s a machine that you need to live.”
Like Lillard, Paul Alexander, 70, also relies on a mechanic to keep his iron lung running.
I met Alexander a few times in his small house in Dallas. He spends nearly every moment in his iron lung in the center of his living room, which is decorated with degrees, awards, pictures of family, and a drawing of the Scottish folk singer Donovan, who had polio. When people enter the front door a few feet away from him, he usually greets them with a warm upside-down smile, reflected in the mirror above his head.
Advertisement
Advertisement

One of the times I visited Alexander, I walked in on him editing a memoir that’s set to be published in a few months. He types and answers the phone with his mouth, using a capped pen attached to a plastic wand he clenches with his teeth. During another visit, his friend and mechanical savior Brady Richards stopped by to check in on Alexander.
Alexander, who got polio in 1952 when he was 6, is almost entirely paralyzed below the neck but that hasn’t stopped him from going to law school and becoming a trial lawyer. “When I transferred to University of Texas, they were horrified to think that I was going to bring my iron lung down, but I did, and I put it in the dorm, and I lived in the dorm with my iron lung,” he told me. “I had a thousand friends before it was over with, who all wanted to find out what’s that guy downstairs with a head sticking out of a machine doing here?”
Advertisement

Alexander hasn’t been to a trial in a few years now as it has become nearly impossible for him to get out of the iron lung for a few hours like he used to do when he went to court and represented clients in a wheel chair.
In 2015, a friend of Alexander uploaded a YouTube video of Alexander explaining the issues he was having with his iron lung, hoping it would be seen by a machinist who knew how to repair the respirator. Finally someone connected Alexander with someone kind and skilled enough to help. “I looked for years to find someone who knew how to work on iron lungs,” Alexander said. “Brady Richards, it’s a miracle that I found him.”
Advertisement
Richards runs the Environmental Testing Laboratory, which does rigorous testing to make sure equipment and products meet environmental standards (everything from checking if a TV mount is earthquake proof to checking how an ambulance will handle a T-bone collision). In one of Richard’s garages, he keeps his side projects—hot rods, desert race cars, and a small collection of iron lungs and parts. This is where Richards refurbished the current machine that Alexander uses and where he is fixing up another replacement. “When we first brought the tube into the shop, one of my younger employees asked me what I was doing with these smoker grills,” Richards said. “And I was like these are not smokers, these are iron lungs. And all my younger guys had no idea what that meant.”
Advertisement

Alexander had been in the refurbished model for about a couple months when I first met with him in September. To him, it was like a new skin. “Once you live in an iron lung forever, it seems like, it becomes such a part of your mentality. Like if somebody touches the iron lung—touches it—I can feel that. I can feel the vibration go through the iron lung,” he said. “If there’s a slight bit of a vibration that occurs as the result of the mechanics—worn out the fan belt or it needs grease or anything like that—it tends to change the breath slightly. Yep, the iron lung’s a part of me, I’m afraid.”
My final visit was Mona Randolph, 81, who lives with her husband Mark, 63, in Kansas City, Missouri. When I first arrived, a helper was tucking Mona into the machine for the night. They lift Mona into the iron lung using a mechanical arm attached to their ceiling since Mark’s back problems prevent him from lifting her into the iron lung, like he used to do when they first met in the ‘80s.
Advertisement

Mona got polio at the age of 20 in 1956. At the time, she was a skilled pianist planning her wedding. She needed an iron lung for the first year, until she went to rehab in Warm Spring, Georgia, where she was able to wean herself off. But 20 years later, in 1977, she had a series of bronchial infections—possibly due to post-polio syndrome—and her doctors told her she needed to start using an iron lung again. “The ‘yellow submarine’ is my necessary, trusted, mechanical friend,” she told me. “I approach it with relief in store at night and thankfully leave it with relief in the morning.”
Advertisement
Mona is covered under Mark’s insurance and Medicare, but neither of those help with the iron lung or the caretakers that Mona needs. The Randolphs opted to take full ownership of the iron lung when Respironics was making its big push to offload them. Since then, Mark, a software engineer who has many other engineer skills, and Mona’s cousin, a former aircraft mechanic, have maintained and repaired Mona’s “yellow submarine.” Mark said the medical costs are about the same as a new car every year, “But what would I spend it on if not for Mona.”
When I met with the Randolphs, Mark gave me photocopies of old service manuals and operating instructions. He filled me in on little-known history about the Emerson iron lung and its inventor, whom they met at a Post-Polio convention. I realized what each of these iron lung users have in common are the aid of generous, mechanically skilled friends and family. And that’s probably the main reason they’ve been able to live long and full lives, despite the hardships and anxieties of depending on aging machinery to survive.
Advertisement

But another thing they all had in common is a desire for the next generations to know about them so we’ll realize how fortunate we are to have vaccines. “When children inquire what happened to me, I tell them the nerve wires that tell my muscles what to do were damaged by a virus,” Mona said. “And ask them if they have had their vaccine to prevent this. No one has ever argued with me.”
Alexander told me that if he had kids he would have made sure they were vaccinated. “Now, my worst thought is that polio’s come back,” he said. “If there’s so many people who’ve not been—children, especially—have not been vaccinated... I don’t even want to think about it.”
Advertisement
Lillard is heartbroken when she meets anti-vaccine activists. “Of course, I’m concerned about any place where there’s no vaccine,” she said. “I would just do anything to prevent somebody from having to go through what I have. I mean, my mother, if she had the vaccine available, I would have had it in a heartbeat.”



When you hear something is chock-full of antioxidants, the mental conclusion is often: That’s it—that’s the elixir of life, I have to eat a lot of that. But why do we all assume that loading up on anti-oxidants will somehow be the key to infinite youth?
This week, news outlets reported on a new study claiming that mushrooms can help fight aging. As you may be aware, the only true way to stop aging is death. But no one ate any mushrooms for this study—instead, the researchers were talking about the much-hyped antioxidant molecule.
Advertisement

But first let’s discuss the study. The researchers merely measured the levels of two molecules, like glutathione and ergothioneine, and found that certain mushrooms had more of those molecules than others. There wasn’t a clinical trial, a survey of people’s longevity after consuming said mushrooms—it was solely a chemical analysis.
Glutathione and ergothioneine happen to fall into the class of antioxidant molecules, however—which meant that news outlets were eager to call mushrooms anti-aging elixirs. But antioxidants aren’t something that really need to be shouted about.
First, what are they? Your body produces certain electron-stealing molecules called free radicals that can potentially damage DNA and cells. It uses antioxidants to protect against the effects of these free radicals—“antioxidant” literally means “doesn’t oxidize,” where oxidizing is the chemistry word for losing electrons. There are hundreds of different kinds of antioxidants, according to a Harvard tip sheet.
Clinical trials testing the benefits of single antioxidant molecules like Vitamin E and others have produced mixed results. They seem to help against macular degeneration but there’s not conclusive evidence demonstrating their benefits for warding off heart disease, strokes, or cancer.
That’s not to say antioxidants are bad—it just doesn’t really matter if mushrooms have more of two specific antioxidants. Instead, it’s better to focus on the molecules in their natural habitat as part of a balanced diet with lots of fruits, vegetables, and even mushrooms. Because eating more mushrooms to ward off aging is shit advice.
[Food Chemistry]


To be a giraffe among giraffes, or a pigeon among pigeons, is to live at all times in that scene from Being John Malkovich—a world in which everyone you know looks pretty much exactly like you. However wondrously varied the animal kingdom might be, on a species-level its residents tend to look more similar than not—at least, from a human perspective. I’m not saying that all squirrels look identical—just that being a squirrel, and trying to distinguish your squirrel-spouse from your squirrel dad from your squirrel-mailman, seems like it would be pretty hard work.
And yet anyone who’s seen a nature documentary knows that despite their surface similarities, animals recognize their own all the time. Sight might play some role here, depending on the species, but it can only take a given animal so far. Presumably, other processes have to pick up the slack. This week on Giz Asks, to figure out what, exactly, those processes are, we reached out to a number of experts—among them biologists, psychologists, and environmental scientists—who detailed the wide range of behaviors which help animals of the same species recognize one another.
Associate Professor in the Department of Comparative Human Development and head of the Adaptive Research Lab at the University of Chicago
Most animals recognize their family and ‘friends’ by sight or by smell, although other cues could be used, such as sounds. Odors are used as cues to familiarity or genetic relatedness in mammals, birds, amphibians, fish and insects. These odors could come from general sweat glands or from specialized glands in the skin. In some cases, odors are influenced by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), a collection of genes involved in the immune system. Family members have similar MHCs, and therefore have similar odors.
Another question we could ponder is ‘why do animals recognize each other?’. Recognizing familiar individuals, such as neighbors, can help to avoid unnecessary fights or to promote alliances. Recognizing relatives can be important to avoid inbreeding, or to recognize previously unfamiliar kin, such as paternal half-siblings in species which have multiple paternity. Furthermore, animals which engage in nepotistic behaviors—risky behaviors that benefit kin —certainly need to be able to recognize how closely related they are to the individuals who might benefit.
The ‘how’ and ‘why’ of animal recognition are well understood for Belding’s ground squirrels, a small, group-living mammal found in high elevation meadows of the western United States that I have studied for 25 years. Adult females are highly nepotistic, but risk their lives only to benefit mothers, sisters and daughters. Their litters are comprised of full- and half-siblings, creating a need for squirrels to recognize kin they did not encounter growing up, such as their father, a paternal half-sibling, or a cousin. Belding’s ground squirrels have a variety of glands that produce odors useful for recognition. Oral, dorsal, pedal, anal and supra-orbital glands produce individually distinct odors, and oral- and dorsal-gland odors are kin distinct. That is, these odors co-vary with kinship and allow squirrels to quickly assess their relatedness to others. Indeed, when two squirrels first encounter each other, they smell each other’s oral glands, and look as if they are kissing as they do so. After their seven-month hibernation, squirrels still recognize their kin, but no longer recognize their previously familiar neighbors, telling us that each spring squirrels use their own odor as a referent or a template of what their family smells like.

Associate Professor in the Department of Psychology at Eckerd College
Being able to tell a family member from a non-family member is very important and seems to happen in many species. Nepotism, or favoring kin, as well as the avoidance of close inbreeding is seen throughout the animal kingdom, which suggests the importance of being able to distinguish family from others.  There are a variety of mechanisms used, and sometimes multiple mechanisms within a single species.  For example, bank swallows first use their nest site to recognize where their chicks are (and they will feed non-kin chicks placed in their nests). However, once their own young fledge (around 2-3 weeks), the parents shift their discrimination strategy to recognizing the individual call of their chicks (and will no longer feed a non-related chick).
Bottlenose dolphins produce “signature whistles” which are characteristic of a particular individual.  When a dolphin is separated from its group it is more likely to produce its signature whistle than when it is not separated.  Dolphins also seem to remember the signature whistles of their “friends” after years of separation.
Other strategies include visual cues (e.g. behavior and morphology) and chemical cues (e.g. odors).  Research also suggests that pandas may use their distinctive facial fur pattern for individual recognition.
Assistant Professor of Psychology, Hunter College, CUNY and Founder, Think Elephants International
Humans are members of the primate order, and like our ape cousins—chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans, bonobos—we primarily absorb our physical world through our visual experiences. Our ability to recognize people that we know is based largely on the integration of our visual system with our memories. This doesn’t mean we don’t also use our sense of smell and hearing in our interactions with others (humans have language and primates certainly communicate with each other using sound and smell), but vision is our primary sense.
But how do other animals, non-primates in particular, experience their physical and social worlds? For more than a decade, I have studied the behavior of Asian elephants in Thailand. My research focuses largely on how elephants think and make decisions in both their physical and their social worlds. How do elephants make decisions about where to go to find food, or which elephant to cooperate with? Although elephants can see (my colleagues and I did a study that showed they can recognize themselves in mirrors, for instance), research on elephant behavior indicates that elephants’ interactions with others—specifically, within their social groups—may rely more heavily on their use of sound, smell and touch.
In one study, scientists Lucy Bates, Richard Byrne and their colleagues were interested in looking at African elephants’ memory for family members and the elephants’ understanding of where the family members were located in relation to themselves. The interesting part of this study is that they tested this using urine, and found that the elephants may have been able to identify a large number of individuals simply by “smelling” what they left behind.
I think it’s pretty clear from research like this, and decades of research from other elephant behavior scientists in Africa and Asia, that elephants are multimodal communicators; they can use the complement of visual, acoustic, olfactory and tactile information in their social interactions with other elephants. In addition to detecting, identifying and communicating with individuals through sound calls, elephants often use their trunk, which is an extremely sensitive olfactory organ, to both touch and smell other elephants. Although we’re still studying this, I’m convinced that the elephant’s sense of smell plays a huge role in their ability to make all sorts of decisions in their daily lives. The non-human animal world can tell us so much about how sociality and communication evolve, and we still have so much more to learn!
On a more somber note, species such as chimpanzees, gorillas, bonobos, orangutans and Asian and African elephants are endangered; we are running out of time to learn more about these remarkable animals. New knowledge about their behavior and cognition not only informs our understanding of our own evolution but also may play an important role in helping scientists and conservationists develop better protocols for protecting them and their habitats.

Associate Professor, Department of Environmental Studies at the University of New England
There are many different methods of communication and individual recognition among animals. There are scent-markings: for instance, a deer might urinate down its leg, which catches the smell, and gives off an individual identification A  grey fox will very intentionally poop right in the middle of a trail or on top of a rock in a place that’s really obvious, as a way of saying ‘I was here, this is who I am.’ A bird [communicates through] song or calls or other types of vocalizations, as well as through actual displays—the way that they fly up in the air and make a particular pattern, usually linked with a sound while in the air, or a call. These are ways that they all can distinguish individuals, and then they can make choices about what sort of relationship they have with those individuals, whether it’s to ignore them, whether it’s aggressive, whether it’s a friendly relationship—or if it’s courtship. Courtship is really key here.
There are a number of mammals that can also communicate by sight as well: the way a squirrel moves its tail can give signals to other squirrels about who they are, as well as their relative health and their body condition, and things like: are they stressed, are they prepared to mate, etc. Things like that provide very complex signals.
It’s really complex signals that are provided in things like that.
Professor Emeritus of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Colorado and the author of the forthcoming Canine Confidential: Why Dogs Do What They Do
A number of nonhuman animals—i.e., animals—have the ability to recognize themselves. Of course, what they actually know about themselves and whether they actually say something like “Wow, that’s me” when they see, hear, or smell themselves, isn’t known. So, while we don’t know if other animals have a true sense of “I-ness,” as do humans, they do show the ability to know something about their own body: for example, this tail is mine. Thus, they have what I call a sense of “body-ness” and a sense of “mine-ness.” Different studies have been conducted on nonhuman primates, dolphins, elephants, and magpies using what is called the “red dot” test. During these experiments, called the “mirror test,” a red dot is placed on the forehead of an individual when they are anesthetized or otherwise unaware that someone has marked them. Then, after they previously have been trained to interact with a mirror, a limited number of members of these species make self-directed movements toward the red spot. These movements are taken to mean they have some sense of self-awareness or self-recognition.
But we really don’t know how dogs recognize other dogs as the individuals who they are, and likely there’s more than one way they do so. I’m sure that dogs have individual and unique scents—so one way in which my dog Jethro, for example, might recognize his good friend Zeke and other dogs would be by what they smell like. For me the interesting questions are how dogs recognize other dogs as individuals with whom they don’t have all that much contact, or how they recognize them from a distance. Dogs might also use sight — visual clues such as size, shape, coat color, the type of ears and tail an individual has, and gait, for example, and perhaps what another dog sounds like when they vocalize. It’s also easy to imagine that dogs use what are called “composite signals” in which they use cues coming in simultaneously from the different senses to identify individuals. Numerous people with whom I spoke when I was researching my book told me that they simply knew their dog recognized other dogs—but hard data on this question are really lacking. This would be a wonderful topic for future systematic research.
Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience at the University of Cambridge, her recent research on Huntington’s disease led her to her discovery that sheep can recognize human faces
Sheep tell each other apart from face recognition, sound and smell. So, pretty much as a dog does. Which sense prevails depends upon how far away one animal is from another and how dark it is. Smell is more important for lamb recognition, and less important for adults.
Professor of Sensory and Behavioural Ecology, Berlin Institute for Advanced Study
[Bees] don’t—to our knowledge, there is no individual recognition in bees (but there is recognition of colony membership by scent). But some wasps recognize each other individually through distinct facial features. And bees can be trained to recognize images of individual human faces.
Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Michigan
Social bees and wasps have a colony-specific scent that they use to figure out which individuals are nestmates vs non-nestmates. Workers also identify the queen using her scent. The fertile queen smells different than infertile workers. Some bees and wasps use other mechanisms for recognition. For example, Polistes fuscatus paper wasps have unique facial features. These wasps use each other’s unique faces for individual recognition. It’s similar to the way that you identify people using variation in human facial features.
Biologist and research fellow, Department of Ethology, Eötvös Lorand University, Budapest, studies bioacoustics
The short answer is we don’t really know much about this. [Dogs] certainly use smell, visual and acoustic features. There is one study showing that they look longer at pictures showing the face of dogs they have already seen compared to novel ones suggesting that they are able to discriminate other dogs’ faces (Racca et al 2010). Another study showed that they react differently to familiar and unfamiliar territorial barks: when the researchers played back a bark from an unknown individual outside the fence of the garden, the subjects approached it, and reacted with barks, while when they heard the bark of a familiar individual they oriented to the house where it was actually located during the playback (Pongrácz et al 2014). Finally, they also seem to react differently to a familiar and unfamiliar dog’s separation whines. The subjects showed more affiliative behaviors to the familiar dog when they heard its whines before compared to hearing an unfamiliar individual’s whine (Quervel-Chaumette et al 2016). However we don’t really know what features they actually use to differentiate other dogs.
Additional reporting by Ryan Mandelbaum.
Do you have a question for Giz Asks? Email us at tipbox@gizmodo.com.


A few months ago, physicists observed a new subatomic particle—essentially an awkwardly-named, crazy cousin of the proton. Its mere existence has energized teams of particle physicists to dream up new ways about how matter forms, arranges itself, and exists.
Now, a pair of new research papers using different theoretical methods have independently unearthed another, crazier particle predicted by the laws of physics. If discovered in an experiment, it would provide conclusive evidence of a whole new class of exotic particles called tetraquarks, which exist outside the established expectations of the behavior of the proton sub-parts called quarks. And this result is more than just mathematics.
Advertisement

“We think this is not totally academic,” Chris Quigg, theoretical physicist from the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory told Gizmodo. “Its discovery may well happen.”
Bust first, some physics. Zoom all the way in and you’ll find that matter is made of atoms. Atoms, in turn, are made of protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons and neutrons can further be divided into three quarks.
Physicists have discovered six types of quarks, which also have names, masses, and electrical charges. Protons and neutrons are made from “up” and “down” quarks, the lightest two. But there are four rarer, heavier ones. From least to most massive, they are: “strange,” “charm,” “bottom,” and “top.” Each one has an antimatter partner—the same particle, but with the opposite electrical sign. As far as physicists have confirmed, these quarks and antiquarks can only arrange themselves in pairs or threes. They cannot exist on their own in nature.
Scientists in the Large Hadron Collider’s LHCb collaboration recently announced spotting a new arrangement of three quarks, called the Ξcc++ or the “doubly charged, doubly charmed xi particle.” It had an up quark and two heavy charm quarks. But “most of these particles” with three quarks “containing two heavy quarks, charm or beauty, have not yet been found,” physicist Patrick Koppenburg from Nikhef, the Dutch National Institute for Subatomic Physics, told Gizmodo back then. “This is the first in a sense.”
With the knowledge such a particle could exist (and with the knowledge of its properties like its mass), two teams of physicists crunched the numbers in two separate ways. One team used extrapolations of the experimental data and methods they’d previously used to predict this past summer’s particle. The other used a mathematical abstraction of the real world, using approximations that take into account just how much heavier the charm, bottom, and top are than the rest to simplify the calculations.
In both new papers published in Physical Review Letters, a stable four-quark particle with two bottom quarks, an anti-up quark, and an anti-down quark fell out of the math. Furthermore, the predicted particles’ masses were not quite the same, but similar enough to raise eyebrows.
Advertisement

“As you notice, the conclusions are basically identical on a qualitative level,” Marek Karliner, author of the first study from Tel Aviv University in Israel, told Gizmodo. And while lots of tetraquark candidates have been spotted, this particle’s strange identity—including the added properties and stabilization from its two heavy bottom quarks—would offer unambiguous evidence of the particle’s existence.
“The things we’re talking about are so weird that they couldn’t be something else,” said Quigg.
But now it’s just a manner of finding the dang things. Quigg thought a new collider such as one proposed for China might be required. But physicists are in agreement that the sometimes-overlooked LHCb experiment has been doing some of the year’s most exciting work—Karliner thought the experiment could soon spot the particle. “My experimental colleagues are quite firm in this statement. They say that if it’s there, they will see it.” He thought the observation could come in perhaps two to three years time, though Quigg was less optimistic.
Advertisement

Such unambiguous detection of the tetraquark would confirm guesses from as far back as 1964 as to how quarks arrange themselves. And the independent confirmation from different methods have made both teams confident.
“I think we have pretty great confidence that he doubly-b tetraquark could exist,” said Quigg. “It’s just a matter of looking hard for it.”
[PRL, PRL]


For the better part of the last three years, the introduction of the most powerful gene editing technology ever invented has been marred by a nasty patent battle. The two groups of scientists involved, each contributing significantly to the future of genetic engineering, are pitted against each other in a bitter contest for glory and fortune.
In one corner: UC Berkeley, which argued that seminal 2012 work revealing that a bacterial immune system called CRISPR could be repurposed to edit genes ultimately paved the way for CRISPR to be used to genetically alter animal DNA. In the other corner: The Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, which six months later actually adapted CRISPR to engineer plant, animal and human cells. At issue: Who deserves credit for the original recipe that led to using CRISPR-Cas9 to edit mammalian DNA.
Advertisement

In February, a US Patent Office appeal board raised the Broad Institute’s arm in victory. Since then, this US case has been stuck in appeals within the Federal Circuit (in Europe, the question of who will ultimately win this patent battle is also up for debate). But if both sides had adhered to a controversial 1997 US patent rule known as the written description doctrine, the whole mess probably could have been avoided, argue two researchers in a new Science opinion.
“A patent is an economic instrument, not an instrument for glory,” Arti Rai, co-director of the Duke Law Center for Innovation Policy and an author on the paper, told Gizmodo.
The issue, she said, is that Berkeley (and perhaps also Broad) made claims in their patents that were simply too broad. As written, the patent code already requires that if you patent something, you have to include “full, clear, concise, and exact terms” that would allow anyone with the prerequisite skills to replicate whatever it is that you did. Twenty years ago, the Federal Circuit court made it clear that original patent claims can be invalidated if the patent application does not disclose how the operation of complex new technologies would actually work. In theory, this means you can’t patent the genetic engineering of mammalian cells with CRISPR if you haven’t actually tried to edit mammalian cells with CRISPR yourself.
“You’re supposed to describe in your patent what you have already done,” said Robert Cook-Deegan, Rai’s co-author and a researcher at Arizona State University’s School for the Future of Innovation in Society. “That means that Berkeley would have had to file patent applications specifically describing editing eukaryotes.”
Part of the problem is that the written description doctrine is controversial and inconsistently enforced.
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s 2010 patent infringement suit against Eli Lilly, which is a crucial affirmation of the written description doctrine, is a good example. Harvard and MIT scientists had identified a cell-signaling pathway related to the body’s immune responses to an infection known as NF-kB. The patent the scientists licensed to Ariad, though, claimed a method for modulating that pathway, though they had yet to identify the molecules that modulated it. A jury sided with Ariad, claiming that Eli Lilly had manufactured two drugs that infringed upon it, but a Federal Circuit court overturned the finding, invoking the written description doctrine.
In a dissenting opinion, though, a judge articulated a criticism held by many—that a written description doctrine separate from what’s already included in the patent code is just unnecessary. The sentiment was that in expanding the requirements of a written description, the court had overshot its goal and created something that created too many hoops for innovators to jump through that could be used to invalidate almost any patent claim. The crux of the criticism was that all this might hamper innovation and prevent innovators from reaping the benefits they ultimately deserved. (The original written description portion of the patent code was used only to police claims added after an original filing date, not to test whether an inventor actually possessed the ability to do everything described in their original filing.)
Advertisement

Those arguments, though, persist today and the inconsistent application of the doctrine has made it such that institutions like Berkeley have a decent shot at making a successful claim to broad discoveries.
“The courts should uphold the written doctrine consistently so people stop trying to get around it,” said Cook-Deegan. “Then we can quit paying all these lawyers to dispute patents.”
Even the Broad patents, the paper points out, may cover too much inventive territory because it covers all Cas9 proteins, even though there are many such proteins and the work did not cover them all.
Advertisement

It makes sense. After all, broad patents mean more opportunities to reap financial reward.
But overly broad patents, the paper argues, are inefficient and wasteful in that they inevitably lead to long, drawn out patent battles like the one over CRISPR.
“The bigger the prize at the end of the race, the more likely we will see inefficiency,” they write.
Advertisement

If awarded, broad patents also concentrate economic wealth and power over essential scientific knowledge.
“The weight of evidence suggests that broad knowledge monopolies even in the hands of universities can hinder scientific progress,” the paper argues.
The problem of broad licenses is exacerbated by the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, which was intended to turn patents into a way of commercializing federally funded research and allow research institutions to profit big off their inventions. This has led to complicated licensing agreements that assign ownership and access of broad technological inventions to a few. Both Berkeley and Broad, for example, have doled out exclusive licenses to companies affiliated with the scientists behind the work and anyone who hopes to commercialize those inventions must pay to sublicense the technology from them.
The bigger issue, though, may be the cultural significance associated with patents. Patents are a trophy, an invisible symbol that convey credit for an innovation. Legal rights get confused with scientific credit. But conflating credit and economic ownership, said Rai, is a bad idea.
Advertisement

“For Berkley to make the claims that it did was a great conceptual leap,” said Rai. “We would not begrudge them scientific glory. But that’s different from claiming a patent.”
If it upholds the patent board decision, the Federal Circuit court may wind up invoking the written description doctrine. In the case, a key legal question is whether at the time Berkeley filed its patent, eukaryotic applications were not just “obvious to try” but also had a “reasonable expectation of success.” The patent board held that Berkeley’s breakthrough had not made it scientifically “obvious” that Broad’s work would succeed. That meant there was no overlap in what Berkeley and Broad each claimed in their patents.
Of course, some have argued that a technology as powerful as CRISPR should be owned by no one at all.


In the year 2030, a powerful radio transmission originating from Earth will arrive at a potentially habitable exoplanet located approximately 12.4 light years away. Should any alien intelligence be there to receive it, they’re in for quite a treat: This binary stream of data contains short musical clips from some of the world’s best electronic musicians. It’s part art, part science—but considering we know virtually nothing about extraterrestrials, should we really be calling attention to ourselves?
For three days in October, organizers of the Spanish Sónar electronic music festival pointed the 105-foot-wide European Incoherent Scatter Scientific Association (EISCAT) radio antenna towards the sky and sent bursts of radio signals  towards GJ 273—a red dwarf star (sometimes called Luyten’s Star) that hosts two known planets, one of which, GJ 273b, may be capable of supporting life. With the help of astronomers from METI (Messages to Extraterrestrial Intelligence) and the Institute of Space Studies of Cataloniar (IEEC), the Sónar team beamed digitally encoded clips of music from such artists as Autechre, Holly Herndon, Jean-Michel Jarre, Modeselektor, Matmos, Kode9, and Laurel Halo.
Advertisement

In April 2018, they’ll do it again, sending 15 more tracks from some of the 33 artists who are taking part in the festival. You can listen to the 10-second-long tracks beamed during the first transmission here (Niva Kraviz’s is my favorite, and shame on Jarre for rehashing an old clip from Oxygène).
Called Sónar Calling, the project is a “celebration, an artistic-scientific experiment and a collective reflection open to humans and extraterrestrials,” according to the festival website. The point of the exercise, aside from attracting the obvious publicity and selling more concert tickets, is to promote “the first contact of humanity with an extraterrestrial intelligence.” Sounds flowery, but there’s some actual science going on: Unlike the traditional, passive SETI approach of listening for alien radio signals, METI is trying to make actual contact with ET.

Which leads me to the obvious question: Is all this such a good idea? Sure, this exercise sounds harmless and fun, but it’s not a zero-risk endeavor. Aliens may very well be listening, and we have no idea how they might respond. The whole thing seems a bit premature, possibly even reckless.
But Douglas Vakoch, president of the not-for-profit METI, doesn’t see it that way. To him, Sónar Calling is a good way to test and refine some basic interstellar communication principles, and educate the public about the METI concept. It’s also a way to see if aliens are actually out there.
“We’re testing one solution to the Fermi Paradox called the Zoo Hypothesis,” Vakoch told Gizmodo. “According to the Zoo Hypothesis, perhaps extraterrestrial intelligence is much more widespread than we usually think, and even nearby stars are populated with advanced civilizations. In short, they already know we are here, but they are simply watching us, like we watch animals in the zoo.” Vakoch’s hope is that we send a message that’s interesting enough to warrant a response from an extraterrestrial civilization.
The other point of the exercise, says Vakoch, is to develop a process that can be replicated, over and over again, with multiple stars.
Advertisement

“This preparation includes developing the messages we send, encoding them in a format that can be transmitted with available facilities such as EISCAT, and archiving our messages so future generations will remember what we have sent, and so they will know when we can first expect a reply,” he said. “If METI succeeds in creating the organizational infrastructure that allows the sort of long term thinking that encourages astronomers to look for a reply from GJ 273b a quarter of a century from now, the project will be a remarkable success, even if we don’t receive a reply from ET.”
The Sónar Calling project is reminiscent of previous attempts at interstellar communication, including the Aricebo Message (1974), Russia’s Cosmic Call (1999), the Lone Signal Project (2013), and to a lesser extent the Golden Record on NASA’s two Voyager probes. But these efforts were one-off signals, and with no follow-up.
“We have transmitted to the same star on three successive days, giving scientists on GJ 273b time to ask their colleagues at other observatories to watch for repeated transmissions, letting them confirm that they’ve detected an artificial signal,” said Vakoch. “Moreover, we’ll send a second set of transmissions in April 2018, giving extraterrestrials orbiting Luyten’s Star an additional six months to prepare an extensive observing campaign of Earth, allowing further confirmation of our signal.”
Advertisement

In addition, the transmission designed by IEEC and METI scientists is “propaedeutic” in nature, meaning that each section of the message contains information about how to decode the next section. According to the Sónar Calling team, a sufficiently sophisticated alien intelligence should be able to detect this transmission and perceive it as coming from an unnatural source. Music from the first transmission is now hurtling towards GJ 273b at the speed of light, and it’ll arrive in late 2030. So the earliest we could ever hope to hear a response will be in 2043.
Each contributing artist had to compose and specially prepare their music for transmission. Given the very slow data transmission rate of 500 bits per second (that’s about 250,000 times slower than  MP3 playback), the musicians were required to compose brief 10-second-long pieces, and at a very low digital sound quality. For the audiophiles among you, it was a PCM encoding of only eight bits, in mono, and with a sampling frequency of just eight kilohertz. No data compression was used. Each piece was preceded with a digital “tutorial” that describes the digital coding of sound waves using different frequencies and harmonics. The clips were sent from the EISCAT observatory in Tromsø, Norway on October 16th, 17th, and 18th.
In terms of the risks, Vakoch believes that any civilization that has the capacity to travel to Earth to do us harm already knows we’re here, “so there is no increased risk of an alien invasion from our transmissions.” Vakoch says we have a natural tendency to think that it’s risker to do something than not to do something, so we think it’s riskier to transmit a message than not to transmit.
Advertisement

“But when we stop and think about it, sometime it is risker not to do something,” he says. “Some people choose not to get vaccinated to prevent a serious disease, but that decision actually increases their risk of getting sick. And if enough people make that same choice, this lack of action would be devastating for public health.” Vakoch is working under the rather big assumption that contact would be ultimately good for us, and that a benign ETI could pull us from the primitive mode we currently find ourselves in. Or at the very least, that proof of alien existence might steer our cultural, social, and political values (not to mention our technological development) in a more positive direction.
For nearly a hundred years, Earth has sent radio signals into space. If anyone nearby is listening, …
Of course, erring on the side of caution is not always a bad thing. As Vakoch himself admits, a central aim of this project is to test a potential solution to the Fermi Paradox. But if there’s one thing the Great Silence has taught us is, it’s that the Galaxy is completely empty of observable extraterrestrial intelligence. At about 13 billion years old, and measuring just 150 million light years across, a single ancient interstellar civilization could have populated every single star system in the Milky Way by now, and then some. The Fermi Paradox isn’t just an idle philosophical problem—it’s actually quite terrifying. There’s something going on out there that’s preventing ETIs from overtly colonizing the Galaxy. We don’t know what that “something” is, but it’s not irrational to be worried about it.
Advertisement

Vakoch, on the other hand, says we need to be alert of our biases that lead to fear.
“We have a lot of things to fear in our world today. Nation is pitted against nation. We are destroying our environment. It would be comforting to think that the biggest threat to our survival is from some malevolent alien out there that can be thwarted by simply staying quiet,” he told Gizmodo. “I wish I could say that somehow humanity would be safer if we simply avoided any intentional transmissions to GJ 273, but in good conscience, I can’t.”
[Sónar Calling]


Yesterday, the National Science Foundation announced that they’ll keep the storied Arecibo telescope running in the wake of the Hurricane Maria damage.
The NSF concluded that the best way forward was to collaborate with “new stakeholders” who will both use and maintain the facility, according to the Record of Decision. There could be some potential demolitions of buildings on the site, but funding will continue.
Advertisement

“This is great news,” said Abel Mendez, planetary astrobiologist at the University of Puerto Rico, Arecibo. “We hope to continue our science at the observatory.”
The iconic Arecibo telescope has been struggling financially for many years now. September’s devastating strike from Hurricane Maria could have been the last straw, but the telescope received its repairs and began limited observations once again only a week later. The facility is still running on diesel generators and there’s millions more dollars of fixes required, according to a Nature report.
Under this decision, the NSF will decrease funding from $8.2 to $2 million annually over the next five years as it looks for new partners, writes Nature.
Arecibo is now the second largest single-dish filled telescope behind the FAST telescope in China, but it can still make observations of rotating neutron stars (a.k.a. pulsars), exoplanets, and even assist with gravitational wave astronomy. And having a second dish is important—scientists feel much more confident about discoveries when two different experiments independently spot the same thing.
Mendez was just excited to continue doing science. He said: “I feel that this is a new life.”
[via Nature]


One nice thing about teddy bears is that if your dog tears the head off of your child’s favorite one, you can just sew it back on. But you don’t proclaim your achievement a “wild success”—rather, you say, “here, I have fixed your lifeless play-thing.”
Yet here comes Sergio Canavero, the controversial Italian doctor who just announced that he had performed a head transplant operation on a teddy bear made of bone-stuffed human meat. The announcement has come with an avalanche of news coverage claiming that the move was the first successful head transplant.
Advertisement

Scientists have been toying with the idea for about as long as organ transplantation has been around. Canavero himself announced human transplants would be possible in 2015. He says that research centers in the United States are unsupportive, reports USA Today. He claimed he performed the surgery on a monkey in 2016 but without reattaching the spinal cord and without a published paper. He went on to publish several papers claiming to sever and reattach animal spinal cords, but the papers don’t make clear whether he completely detaches or only mostly cuts through the cord before the procedure. These papers also didn’t have controls. His team published another paper this year, but once again didn’t report whether they completely severed the head.
Needless to say, scientists are skeptical.
This morning, Canavero claimed in a press conference that he’d “realized the first human head transplant,” reports The Telegraph, and that a “full head swap between brain dead organ donors is the next stage.” He followed by calling a full-on head transplant “imminent.”
If you cut a tumor out of a corpse, you did not cure the corpse of cancer—you carved a slice of meat off of a raw roast. If you swap cadaver heads, it’s no different from sewing a drumstick to the wrong rotisserie chicken.
USA Today reports that Canavero has a volunteer, a paralyzed Russian named Valery Spridonov, and that the procedure would go as follows:
Recipient and donor will placed [sic] in a sitting position to facilitate what’s expected to be more about 24 hours of gory, laborious work to separate and then reconnect vertebral bones, jugular veins, the trachea, esophagus and other neck structures. The recipient will be helped to breathe, and blood pumped around the body, with machines. The patient will be kept in drug-induced coma for an unspecified recovery time.
It’s totally possible that everything Canavero has done is honest, a head transplant is imminent, his procedure will work, and our skepticism is unwarranted. After all, he’s pretty much the only person who is doing this procedure, and ultimately crazy ideas are required to push boundaries.
Advertisement

But this is science. Very little study has been done on this procedure or its risks. And with something so radical, if it’s not studied in an open, honest, and realistic way, then it’s hard for others to take it seriously. So until we see some evidence of an actual head transplant where a spine is completely severed and reattached on something other than raw meat, we’re going to remain skeptical.
[via The Telegraph, USA Today]


Although mirrors have been around for thousands of years, a German chemist named Justus von Liebig made a breakthrough in 1835 that would make the modern manufacture of them possible. Add some sugar to ammoniated silver nitrate, pour it onto glass,  and blammo: you’ve got yourself a mirror.
It’s slightly more complicated than that, if only because silver nitrate is highly poisonous. But artist Dave Smith makes it look easy in this recent Instagram post:

Here’s a clearer view of the finished product:

The process looks even cooler when Smith pours the liquid metal substance onto glue-chipped glass, producing beautiful patterns:

Science is cool! So is art!


A planet whole solar system is going to destroy the Earth during September October, uh, any time now, if the usual doomsday conspiracy people are to be believed. And if you’re hoping to survive this calamity, you should probably know what’s going on.
A few months ago, I wrote that you should stop wasting my time with this Planet X/Nibiru doomsday conspiracy theory bullshit. But then I fell down the rabbit hole. I read dozens of Nibiru stories. I couldn’t get enough. I finally understood why I was angry in the first place—I was initially expecting more from National Enquirer-equivalents amplified as authorities in Google’s trending science news section.
Holy shit, stop, please stop. When a crazy person says something crazy in real life, we ignore…
Just a few real news sites peddle original Nibiru content, including The Sun, The Daily Express, The Daily Mail, The Daily Star, and The Daily Mirror. They’re some of the most-read papers in the United Kingdom, but they’re also red-top tabloids, newspapers “characterized by sensationalism.” While this statistic is now outdated, almost 70 percent of British people distrusted these newspapers in 2012, according to a survey published in The Guardian. They post flashy stories based on  YouTube comments, Quora posts, and in one instance, “Someonesbones.com.” The papers have lower editorial standards.
“I agree,” former Gizmodo writer Libby Watson, who is British, told me.
“I can’t stand them because they’re sensationalist claptrap,” James Whitbrook, io9 Staff Writer who is also British, told me. “I’d say it’s like The National Enquirer, yeah. People would be quick to judge it as bollocks.” I reached out to writers at all of the tabloids, none of whom have replied to requests for comments.
Advertisement

If you read Gizmodo, you know that Nibiru is fake. Mostly everyone (spare the usual crazy people) knows Nibiru is fake—literally look at the sky and tell me if you see an entire solar system. If you think Nibiru is real, you are far beyond my help. And sadly, doomsday conspiracy theories will probably never go away.
But you can’t tell me it’s not a gripping story. It’s Men in Black meets War of the Worlds. It’s got everything: The Sun is a NASA-created simulation, but it’s also dying. The sky is changing and governments are doing nothing about it. SpaceX knows the truth—of course they do. A mini solar system is coming. We know it’s true because people can hear trumpet-like noises. NASA has evacuated the ISS but won’t “tell the truth.” The Earth is starting to wobble. North Korea is going to nuke the Yellowstone Volcano because, well, Nibiru. Here’s a video of it, apparently. There is so much more and I can’t get enough.
A Google spokesperson told me that they do treat  The Daily Express, at least, as bona fide news. I asked her about Nibiru appearing in the trending news results, and she said it was up to these news organizations what to write about. She also pointed out in an email that “You will see from this link there are many debunking this at the top of the page.”
Anyway, Nibiru is fake news, and we’ve all got to be discerning about where we get our news and how much trust we put into sources. But at this point, I’m starting to enjoy the excitement of an impending armageddon to distract me from whatever else.


New observations of nearby pulsars—lighthouse-like neutron stars beaming energy—seem to have deepened a mystery that’s been bugging scientists for around a decade. The Earth is being hit with too much antimatter from outer space, and no one is sure why.
Super high-energy radiation from outer space bombards this planet daily. These “cosmic rays” can have energies as high as the particles made by the biggest physics experiment. But there’s a peculiarity to those rays, called the “positron excess.” These new results cast doubt on a previous hypothesis for the excess’ origin. This leaves room for even stranger ideas—maybe even the elusive dark matter.
Advertisement

“The most remarkable thing that we could highlight here is that for the first time we’ve performed a measurement and calculation of the positron flux,” Rubén López-Coto from the National Institute of Nuclear Physics in Italy told Gizmodo, “and got the opposite of what most people thought.”
You may be aware that there’s way more matter than antimatter, mirror-image particles of the same mass but the opposite charge as their partner. Yet scientists spotted a “positron excess,” too many antimatter electrons in the constant bombardment of cosmic rays, back in 2008. They built a new experiment, called the High-Altitude Water Cherenkov (HAWC) Observatory to understand these mysterious particles.
HAWC consists of a number of steel vats filled with water in Mexico. When a cosmic ray passes through, it creates a flash of blue light like the light equivalent of a sonic boom, since the speed of light is slower in water than in air.
Another team of scientists using previous HAWC measurements thought that two pulsars around a thousand light years away, called Geminga and PSR B0656+14, could explain the excess. But now, HAWC has released new measurements in the journal Science observing these pulsar’s high energy gamma ray light. The HAWC scientists used this data to make calculations implying that the positrons would have lost too much energy while traveling through the magnetic fields between the pulsars and Earth.
One scientist not involved in the study, Tim Linden from The Ohio State University, told Gizmodo that the paper was extremely exciting. The new result “has the potential to be transformative in our understanding of how high energy gamma rays are produced,” he said, “and moreover how high energy cosmic rays, in particular cosmic ray electrons [and positrons] propagate throughout the galaxy.”
However, Linden and his team thought HAWC results from earlier this year “strongly favor” the pulsar explanation. He points out that they performed the calculation of how these particles radiate through space differently, using different assumptions. Whether or not Geminga could have contributed to the excess depends on this assumption, he said.
When I mentioned the differing interpretations, López-Coto defended their assumption as making sense, and said that HAWC scientists won’t rule out pulsars completely. “It’s only that we are ruling out these two sources,” and cosmic rays taking different paths through the galaxy might give different results. Even still, there are other possibilities for the source—what if the positrons are coming from processes scientists don’t understand, like dark matter? This is one possibility, but López-Coto wouldn’t say it’s the favored one—all this paper seeks to do is rule out the two pulsars.
Advertisement

Regardless of their differing interpretations of the data, scientists think their mystery will find a solution soon. Linden said: “HAWC is going to be the telescope that tells us what produces the positron excess.”
[Science]


For the native species of New Zealand, European settlement was particularly cruel. The country has no endemic land predators, so many of its birds evolved without the typical avian aptitude for flight. Then came Western settlers, and along with them rats, mice, opossums, stoats, cats, and the occasional misbehaving dog. For these invaders, New Zealand’s flightless birds were a veritable feast. Numbers dwindled. Despite conservation efforts, the country still loses about 20 of its namesake kiwi birds every week.
Then, in 2014, a young Harvard scientist published a paper that caught the attention of conservationists around the world, New Zealand included. Using the genetic engineering technique CRISPR, he suggested that scientists could create something called a gene drive to override natural selection’s typical 50-50 mix. Among other things, this technique might be used to engineer invasive pests to breed themselves out of existence. No kiwi-killing stoats. Presto.
Advertisement

Earlier this year, typically GMO-wary New Zealand signaled it was interested in giving gene drives a whirl. Now, a pair of papers published Thursday suggest there’s just one potentially significant hitch: Gene drives do not appear to be safe to use for conservation—at least not yet.
The problem, it turns out, is that gene drives might actually work a little too well.
“Our models show that standard  drive systems are highly invasive,” Kevin Esvelt, the synthetic biologist who published the original CRISPR gene drive paper back in 2014, told Gizmodo.
Gene drives thwart natural selection by creating a “selfish gene” that gets passed down to offspring with more consistency than the rules of inheritance typically allow, eventually—in theory—spreading through an entire population. If New Zealand decided to use a gene drive to rid itself of rats, for example, it’s possible that those genetically altered rats would eventually make their way to other unintended locations, either by stowing away on ships like they did to get to New Zealand in the first place or by other humans not-so-keen on their own rat populations purposefully moving them.
“[Modified organisms] probably can’t be safely tested in the field because they’re likely to spread to most populations of the target species throughout the world,” Esvelt said.
As you might imagine, genetically altering the world’s entire rat population might wind up being a pretty big problem.
The notion of using genetic engineering to thwart natural selection was first proposed in 2003, but it was with the advent of CRISPR and Esvelt’s 2014 paper that the prospect of gene drives seemed within the realm of possibility.
Advertisement

The 2014 paper inspired a rush of enthusiasm and fear within the broader public, and spurred a heated debate within the scientific community about whether it would really work. Ever since first putting the idea out there, Esvelt has worked hard to warn the world just how dangerous it might be. He occupies a weird space: a scientist at the forefront of genetic engineering who is also probably the foremost critic of technology he creates.
Esvelt, who now has his own lab at MIT, said that the pair of papers published Thursday—one in PLoS, the other as a preprint on bioRxiv—amount to a “mea culpa” of sorts.
He said his original paper made a compelling case for all of the potential benefits of gene drives—conservation! eradicating disease!—without spelling out the risks and challenges clearly.
Advertisement

New Zealand is not the first place to get excited about gene drives for conservation. In Hawaii, for one, the idea has been floated as a solution to the disease-carrying mosquitoes that threaten native bird populations. Last year, the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity rejected calls for a global moratorium on gene drives, concluding that the potential benefits are too great to not proceed with “carefully controlled field trials.” A report from the National Academies of Sciences gave a cautious go-ahead to gene drives as well.
“I badly misled many conservationists who are desperately in need of hope,” Esvelt said. “My mistake was in miserably failing to communicate clearly.”
Some recent research has suggested that wild populations will naturally develop resistance to lab-engineered modifications before a gene drive really has a chance to work its magic. In one 2015 study, researchers reported  a CRISPR gene drive had allowed an infertility mutation in female mosquitoes to be passed on to all offspring, but as the mutation increased in frequency over several generations, resistance to the gene drive also emerged, making it unlikely for the mosquitoes to invade wild populations. But Esvelt has floated potential ways around this problem, such as inserting the gene drive gene at several important places in a species’ genome so that it’s unlikely to develop resistance. Even with an inefficient gene drive though, the bioRxiv paper suggests a model in which a small number of altered species could spread to unintended populations.
Advertisement

“This is part of an ongoing conversation about the balances of risk and benefits of gene drive technology,” said Jason Delborne, a scientist who works on gene drives at North Carolina State University who was not involved in the recent work. “These new papers signal that we should be even more cautious about gene drive technology.”
The PLoS paper, an opinion piece co-authored with New Zealand geneticist Neil Gemmell, warns that releasing a standard gene-drive is “likely equivalent to creating a new, highly invasive species.” In other words: It could be very, very bad.
“There are these natural mutations that will cause gene drive to stop working, that’s true. But the reason we’re concerned is people are already figuring out solutions to those natural mutations,” Gemmell said. “If you do that, then how do you stop it?”
Advertisement

Even experimenting in a contained lab could be dangerous. For example, if an engineered lab mouse escaped and that lab was in the vicinity of other mice it might breed with, the gene drive could spread accidentally. (An exception to all this, Esvelt said, might be engineering malaria-resistant mosquitoes, which most of the world might agree to even if there was a potential for the engineered mosquitoes to spread globally.)
“As it stands, there’s still a very large gap in understanding between gene drives in the lab and gene drives in the field, and of course field trials are complicated by substantial ethical and political issues,” Gabriel Zentner, a scientist at Indiana University, told Gizmodo. “The article states that ‘now is the time to be bold in our caution,’ and I tend to agree.”
None of this means anyone is giving up hope on using gene drives as a tool for conservation. It’s just that excitement over the technology got a little ahead of the technology itself.
Advertisement

Esvelt and other scientists are working on developing systems that could limit the spread of a gene drive. One potential solution, proposed by Esvelt, creates limits to the number of generations that inherit an engineered trait. Another being developed by a group called the Genetic Biocontrol of Invasive Rodent’s Partnership seeks to find and target genetic sequences unique to a desired population so that the gene could not spread beyond it.
The hope is that these new papers move more scientists to focus efforts on designing localized or self-limiting drives that might one day actually have real-world applications, rather than experiment with standard drives that might be too dangerous to ever deploy.
“I think some of my colleagues think we just shot them in the foot. We’re still excited about what gene drive has to offer,” Gemmell said. “But the tools we have right now are not optimal. We need something you can turn on and off or has a finite life.”
Advertisement

In New Zealand, the gene drive is being considered as part of a bold plan announced in 2015 by the New Zealand government to eradicate all wild predators by 2050. Gemmell is part of the team of scientists exploring the use of the technology in New Zealand, and he said the early research can still proceed as planned, alongside work to develop a safer gene drive. There is currently no concrete plan to deploy a drive. Early stage research alone is likely to take years.
But, the PLoS paper points out, if any gene drive is ever to be deployed at all, transparent conversations about gene drive technology and its potential consequences need to happen with the public now.
In New Zealand, at least, that work has already begun. Predator-Free 2050, a company funded by the New Zealand government, has begun to fund social research into gene drives. The first results were published this week, finding that 32 percent of the 8,000 New Zealanders surveyed were comfortable gene drives, while 18 percent felt they should never be used, and 50 percent were undecided.
Advertisement

“This is a technology that socially and ethically we’re unprepared for, but technologically, we can do,” Gemmell said. “That’s disturbing. These conversations are overdue.”
[PLoS, bioRxiv]


Astronomer Abel Méndez‏ from the Planetary Habitability Laboratory at the University of Puerto Rico has put together a Periodic Table of Exoplanets, where each of the 3,700 confirmed exoplanets is slotted into its own discrete category—including planets that could harbor life.
Since the discovery of the first exoplanet in 1992, astronomers have cataloged thousands of distant worlds. Like snowflakes, no two planets are the same, ranging in size, composition, and distance from their respective host stars. Some of these planets resemble the ones found in our own Solar System, while others are completely alien, exhibiting features typically found in tawdry, LSD-inspired science fiction novels.
Advertisement

To make sense of it all, Méndez‏ has created a chart that neatly pigeon-holes each known exoplanet into one of 18 categories. Which makes sense. We’re starting to see some patterns emerging in the data such that we can brand these exoplanets as belonging to certain types, such as “warm subterrans,” “cold Neptunes,” and “Hot Jovians.”
At the broadest scale, Méndez‏ distinguishes planets according to their temperature, or distance from the host star, placing worlds in one of three zones: the Hot Zone, Warm Zone, or the Cold Zone. For astrobiologists, the Warm Zone is the most significant, as it represents the swath of space in a stellar system where life is likely to emerge. That said, the concept of the “habitable zone” may be a bit of a misnomer, as life may be able to emerge outside of this area, such as on moons in orbit around gas giants.
The table also organizes the planets according to size, including various forms of terrestrial, rocky planets (which Méndez‏ refers to as “terrans”), and gassy exoplanets resembling Neptune and Jupiter. Each planet has a number assigned to it, representing the number of known worlds of that type known to astronomers. So for example, we know of 599 “Hot Terrans” and 285 “Cold Jovians.” A percentage value is placed in the bottom-left corner of each box to signify the proportion of each.
“We know of over 3,700 planets around other stars. They are very diverse,” Méndez‏ told Gizmodo. “We can roughly classify them by their size and temperature. Only warm planets with the right size, similar to Earth, might provide some of the conditions for extraterrestrial life.”
Looking at the chart, 53 planets (31 Warm Superterrans, 21 Warm Terrans, and one Warm Subterran) have the right size and temperature to potentially foster life, and exhibit features such as liquid surface on the water and a stable atmosphere. “Unfortunately, we don’t know yet if they also have the right amount of water (e.g. oceans) or the right atmosphere for life too,” said Méndez‏.
He explained that most are hot planets, but that’s not because they’re necessarily the most common, but because they’re easier to detect. Once we improve the size and sensitivity of telescopes, Méndez‏ expects astronomers to find more cold planets.
Advertisement

Small planets appear to be the most common, especially super-Earths and Mini-Neptunes, that is, exoplanets slightly larger than Earth, but smaller than Neptune or Uranus. Most known stellar systems have at least one planet, but Méndez‏ says this might be an observational bias as planets are hard to detect. We know of at least three systems with seven planets, for instance, and there are hints of many more.
To that point, and at the top right corner of the chart, Méndez‏ lists the number of known stellar systems according to the number of exoplanets they contain (e.g. we’ve discovered 46 star systems with four planets). Importantly, these systems could contain more planets still waiting to be discovered.
“I’m overwhelmed by the number and diversity of planets in the stars around us. So many places to explore in our own Solar System, but much more is waiting for us beyond,” Méndez‏ told Gizmodo. “I won’t be very surprised by another planet with life, Earth is the example that this is possible. I will be more surprised by something we haven’t seen before.”
[Planetary Habitability Laboratory]


With the advent of modern technologies, the field of regenerative medicine has truly begun to approach its full potential.
Case in point: In recent months, the Food and Drug Administration has approved cutting edge treatments that genetically modify cells in order to treat devastating diseases. On Thursday, the agency announced a plan intended to speed up the approval process for what the agency is calling “regenerative medicine,” at the same time that it also plans to crack down on bad actors.
Advertisement

“These concepts are no longer the stuff of science fiction, but rather real-life science where cells and tissues can be engineered to grow healthy, functional organs to replace diseased ones; where new genes can be introduced into the body to combat disease; and where adult stem cells can generate replacements for cells that are lost to injury or illness,” FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in a statement. “The promise of this technology is why the FDA is so committed to encouraging and supporting innovation in this field.”
The new policy framework, outlined in four guidance documents, aims to clarify how modern therapies or products are regulated under policies that were created before many of today’s biomedical technologies even existed, in order to hopefully make the regulatory process smoother. It additionally outlines how the FDA plans to evaluate safety and effectiveness, as well as how it plans to crack down on products that trigger significant safety concerns (ahem, stem cell clinics).
“The rapid growth and promise of this field has increasingly sowed the ground for the entry of some unscrupulous actors, who have opportunistically seized on the clinical potential of regenerative medicine to make deceptive claims to patients about unproven and, in some cases, dangerous products,” Gottlieb said. “By exploiting the lack of consumer understanding of this area, as well as the fear and uncertainties posed by the diseases these bad actors claim to treat, they’re jeopardizing the legitimacy and advancement of the entire field.”
Those guidelines are final.
The second part of the framework aims to speed development and approval of new therapies. Two of the documents, submitted as drafts that must go through a public comment period before final approval, outline a plan intended to deliver on promises of the 21st Century Cures Act that would “simplify and streamline” regulatory requirements for regenerative medicine therapies and allow some to receive an expedited review.
“We must advance a modern, efficient and least burdensome framework that recognizes the breakneck speed of advancement in the products we’re being asked to evaluate, while ensuring patient safety,” Gottlieb said. “That is the goal of the policy we’re announcing today.”
This announcement may be an example of what the FDA commissioner recently called “deregulating by regulating.” Earlier this month, he announced a similar approach to genetic health tests and in September unveiled the “FDA Pre-Cert” pilot program to regulate digital health products.


Well, this is it. We’ve finally gotten to the point where observing two black holes slamming together, possibly the most way-out physics-based idea one could wrap their head around, has become “routine.” How did we get here?
The LIGO Scientific Collaboration has announced the observation of another pair of colliding black holes from  June 8, 2017. But rather than secret results followed by a public announcement and press brouhaha, they dropped the unpublished results on the physics preprint server, the arXiv. Single gravitational wave events are probably no longer huge news stories—but that’s not a bad thing.
Advertisement

This detection consisted of two black holes—one seven and one 12 times the mass of the sun, merging into an 18 solar mass black hole that’s about 1.1 billion light years away. Two LIGO detectors, one in Washington State and the other in Louisiana, spotted these ripples in space time. You may remember that those detectors make detections by splitting beams of light, sending them down several-kilometer-long pipes, matching them back up, and watching in a detector how they wobble and interfere with one another.
You may notice that the last two LIGO announcements were based on events detected in August. The scientists delayed this announcement since the other two discoveries took more time. One required analysis from Virgo, the European gravitational wave detector that only began taking data on August 1, and the other was the “kilonova” where over 70 observatories around the world spotted the light waves that accompanied a different kind of event: colliding neutron stars.
At this point, these detections have become pretty routine. “I think we feel now that with the black hole binaries—unless we come across something that is qualitatively different then it really has started to become cataloguing if you like,” Ken Strain from Glasgow University told the BBC.
That’s not to say this detection is without value. These were the lightest black holes detected by gravitational waves and the first event to match up with black holes indirectly observed with light rays, according to a press release.
But more importantly, much of what scientists hope to learn about black holes will require statistics—many observations to compare data to theory. That includes how and where in their parent galaxy these pairs form, and even if certain kinds of dark matter exists that would change the way black holes spin.
Advertisement

So, this incredibly wild thing is now just a regular part of physics. We’ve truly entered a new age of astronomy.
[arXiv]


President Donald Trump’s administration is preparing to reverse a Barack Obama-era ban on the importation of elephant trophies from Zimbabwe and Zambia to the U.S., ABC News reported on Wednesday, in a remarkably petty attack on rules intended to protect species registered under the Endangered Species Act.
According to ABC News, a U.S. Fish and Wildlife official confirmed the proposed rule change, which is officially intended to reflect new information from in-country officials that “hunting actually benefits conservation for that species.” As Newsweek noted, initial announcements from the Department of Interior “does not include research that supports that view.” But the department did tout “economic benefits that result from U.S. citizens traveling to foreign nations to engage in hunting” as well as benefits to “human populations” from American visitation.
Advertisement

Fish and Wildlife originally implemented the trophy-importation ban in 2015, citing its “inability to determine that the killing of the animal whose trophy is intended for import into the United States would enhance the survival of the species in the wild.” As National Geographic noted at the time, African traffic hunting is ostensibly intended to prevent poaching by providing economic support to locals, though “the money from hunt fees that trickles down to needy villagers is minimal.” It added that Zimbabwe and Zambia, as well as six other countries, allow sport hunting regardless of the decline in elephant populations, and that research suggests encouraging conservation-friendly tourist activities would better promote the survival of the species.
As ABC News noted, savanna elephant populations dropped 30 percent from 2007 to 2014 in 18 African countries. Research from Democrats on the House Natural Resources Committee has suggested that rampant corruption and poorly managed wildlife programs mean the fees from big game hunting tend to dissipate without helping the species involved, and in fact hunting speeds up the extinction of endangered species.
As the Washington Examiner noted, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke recently formed a council which is exploring once again allowing the importation of trophies from other animals including lions.
Sport hunting is an activity primarily associated with the wealthy, with Scientific American noting that the intent of the activity seems to be for rich foreigners to signal their privilege and influence. That description would seem to apply to the president’s sons, who are really fond of showing off photos of themselves posing alongside dead exotic wildlife, but hey—surely that or Zinke’s attachment to a vision of conservation that puts its fetish for big guns first couldn’t have played a role in this decision, right?
Update 11/17/17: On Thursday, White House spokesperson Sarah Sanders emphasized that no “finalized” announcement had been on the trophy policy, seemingly walking back on the Fish and Wildlife spokesperson’s confirmation to ABC News.
“There hasn’t been an announcement that’s been finalized on this front,” said Sanders. “Until that’s done I wouldn’t consider anything final.”
[ABC News]


During sex, female praying mantises have a tendency to kill their partners with a decapitating cutting blow that would make a samurai proud. But as this shocking new video shows, just because a male doesn’t have a head doesn’t mean he still can’t get it on.
The entirety of this gorgeous new Deep Look video about praying mantises is worth watching, but the nasty business starts around the 3:00 mark. The female chops off the male’s head during the courting stage, but like the horny insectoid zombie that it is, the male—sans head—continues to mate with the female, mounting her and delivering the sperm that will fertilize her eggs.

As explained in the video, the male’s body is still being controlled by nerves in its abdomen, and “it can still get the job done.”
Advertisement

Biologists refer to this behavior as sexual cannibalism, and the mantis female doesn’t do this out of spite or as some kind of mindlessly random act. A State University of New York-Fredonia paper from last year showed that males who get consumed by their mates are actually at a reproductive advantage. From a “selfish gene” perspective, this is actually good news for the mantis dude. As the study showed, females who eat their partners are able to produce more than twice the number of eggs than those who don’t.
Of course, males who survive mating could produce multiple times with other partners, so clearly there’s some evolutionary tension here. As this video shows, biology is messy, and it’s never satisfied with a single approach to survival.
[Deep Look/PBS Digital Studios/KQED via Digg]


Did you actually read all the works you cited in your high school and college papers? If not, you’re probably not the only one. Because a non-existent paper seems to have been cited over four hundred times by supposedly reputable research.
Leiden University professor Pieter Kroonenberg found the “phantom reference” in a nonexistent journal while hunting for an article on writing scientific articles, according to a post on the blog Retraction Watch. Middlesex University professor Anne-Wil Harzing dug into the issue and found that the article was a made-up citation from the science publisher Elsevier to show authors how to cite works. It’s as if I pasted Lorem ipsum text into this article instead of a quote. Here’s the reference:
Van der Geer, J., Hanraads, J.A.J., Lupton, R.A., 2010. The art of writing a scientific article. J Sci. Commun. 163 (2) 51-59.
Most of the papers that cited the phantom reference were “fairly low-quality conference papers,” Harzing told Retraction Watch. But still, the four hundred all appeared on the reputable Web of Science that indexes scientific articles. The reference pops up over seven hundred times on a Google Scholar Search.
Advertisement

This probably isn’t a case of fraud. “We found it hilarious,” Retraction Watch’s cofounder, journalist, and past professor of mine Ivan Oransky told Gizmodo. The researchers told Retraction Watch that the reference was a mistake, “[but] it makes us sit up, take notice, and wonder how it happens. I would ascribe laziness and failure of quality control.”
Given the “publish-or-perish” attitude of science, there’s lots of places where lower quality work slips through, as well as journals preying on scientists who’ll pay to publish or don’t know any better. The presence of even more junk on the less-filtered Google Scholar results demonstrates that, well, there’s a lot of crap out there.
But in this case, since no one is outwardly committing fraud, Oransky hopes that this silly story will help continue the conversation about improving scientific publishing.
“If this is a story that makes it more comfortable for people to try and tackle [these issues] as opposed to out and out fraud, then I’m happy.”
[Retraction Watch]


For the first time, scientists have edited the DNA inside of a patient’s body, in an attempt to cure a genetic disorder by permanently changing the human genome. The news, reported Wednesday by the Associated Press, represents a major landmark in science.
Therapies that aim to treat disease by altering a patient’s genetics have made strides over the past year, but typically those therapies have relied on making any genetic changes outside of the human body, then transfusing the corrected cells into the patient. While allowing doctors to ensure the treatment causes no undesired effects before being put inside a patient’s body, the approach also limits treatment to conditions like blood cancers in which cells can easily be altered externally.
Advertisement

The AP reports that on Monday, 44-year-old  Brian Madeaux was hooked up to an IV that delivered billions of copies of a corrective gene into his body, along with a genetic tool called zinc finger proteins designed to cut his DNA in precisely the right spot to deliver the new genes. Madeux has a metabolic disease called Hunter syndrome and lacks an enzyme that breaks down certain carbohydrates. If all goes well, the corrective gene will make its way to his liver, where the zinc finger proteins will cut the gene responsible for the condition and insert the new copy. With the corrected gene, his body should be able to produce that crucial enzyme.
The first-of-its-kind therapy is made by Sangamo Therapeutics. Madeaux was treated at UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital in Oakland. He’s only the first patient in a clinical trial using the zinc finger nucleases technique (an older alternative to CRISPR) to treat Hunter syndrome. Two additional trials are underway that use the same liver-targeted genome editing strategy to treat hemophilia B and a condition called Hurler syndrome.
The AP reported that only 1 percent of Madeux’s liver cells would need to be corrected in order to effectively treat the disease. In three months, they’ll know for certain whether it’s working.
But, as will any new technology, there still could be unforseen consequences.
“How bulletproof is the technology?” Dr. Carl June, a University of Pennsylvania scientist not affiliated with the study, told the AP. “We’re just learning.”


In preparation for NASA’s next robotic mission to Mars, the space station has performed a successful test of a special parachute that’s designed to withstand the intense speeds involved during an atmospheric descent.
The test, called the Advanced Supersonic Parachute Inflation Research Experiment, or ASPIRE, is a prelude to the real thing where NASA will use the supersonic parachute to land its next rover on the Red Planet. The space agency conducted its first test of the system on October 4, with the parachute deploying successfully at a mind-numbing speed of mach 1.8. So yeah, this isn’t just any ordinary parachute, as NASA’s new video makes clear.

For the test, a 58-foot-tall Black Brant IX sounding rocket was launched into the upper atmosphere from the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center’s Wallops Flight Facility. It carried a weighted payload in a bullet-nosed cylindrical structure, along with the parachute,  the deployment system, and  instruments (including a high-def camera) to collect test data.
Advertisement

When the rocket ascended to an altitude of 32 miles (51 km), it began to fall back towards Earth. Some 40 seconds later, at a height of 26 miles (42 km) and at a falling speed of 1,370 miles per hour (2,200 km/h), the system’s onboard computers determined that the test conditions were met. A hundred pounds of nylon and Kevlar were shot from the rear of the vehicle at nearly a hundred miles an hour. The parachute deployed successfully, and without major rips or tangles. Some 35 minutes later, the capsule splashed down in the Atlantic ocean.
“It is quite a ride,” Ian Clark, the test’s technical lead from NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said in a statement. “The imagery of our first parachute inflation is almost as breathtaking to behold as it is scientifically significant. For the first time, we get to see what it would look like to be in a spacecraft hurtling towards the Red Planet, unfurling its parachute.”
When this system is used in three years, the module containing the Mars 2020 rover will enter the atmosphere at over 12,000 miles per hour (20,000 km/h). Mars has lower gravity than Earth, plus a thinner atmosphere, so the conditions used during ASPIRE were not terribly far off from the real thing.
For this test, NASA scientists used a parachute very similar to the one used back in 2012 to delivery the Curiosity rover to Mars. But early next year, the space agency will test a strengthened version of the parachute that could be used in future Mars missions.
[NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory]


The Earth, the Sun,  Andromeda galaxy, they’ve all been around for as long as you can remember and as long as humanity has been around. So when a new light suddenly shows up in the distance, it’s a weird occurrence. But a newly detected explosion could be one of the weirdest—and it’s not the only one.
An international team of scientists is reporting a new kind of explosion that they can’t quite explain, billions of light years away. Maybe it’s a supernova. Or maybe it’s a star being eaten by a black hole. Or maybe it’s something entirely different.
Advertisement

“I’m a supernova person to start with so I got really thrilled that this could be the most energetic supernova ever,” Peter Lundqvist from Stockholm University in Sweden told Gizmodo. “But I had second thoughts.”
The brightest of the new sources is called PS1-10adi, an outburst of energy a thousand times brighter than a normal supernova near the center of a distant galaxy. It was about as bright as its host galaxy.
This explosion appeared in telescopic surveys of the distance Universe, including Pan-STARRS1 in Hawaii. The researchers followed up with other telescopes and watched the source’s light flare, then fade regularly for a thousand days. Typical supernovae dim after around 200 days.
While completing their survey, the researchers found an entire population of explosions just like PS1-10adi. They say these explosions were incorrectly associated with black hole activity at the center of these galaxies, according to the paper published in Nature Astronomy on Monday.
Aside from incredibly bright supernovae, the scientists proposed it could be an entirely new kind of tidal disruption event—an event where a black hole eats a star. Perhaps the high-density environments surrounding supermassive black holes can create the ripe conditions for different kinds of explosions.
But no matter what PS1-10adi is, it’s definitely interesting.
[Nature Astronomy]


When scientists discovered an Earth-like planet orbiting our closest star, Proxima Centauri b, Gizmodo said it could have been the discovery of the century. But today, scientists are announcing a new exoplanet only 11 light years away that could be even more important.
A team of European scientists named their planet Ross 128 after the star it orbits, Ross 128. It has a projected mass 1.35 times Earth’s and might even have comfortable surface temperatures. Scientists won’t call it habitable just yet, but the observation is promising
Advertisement

“It’s more exciting than Proxima Centauri b,” Emily Rice, research associate in astrophysics at the American Museum of Natural History told Gizmodo. “The star is quieter and less active...it will be easier to characterize than Proxima b.
The researchers took 157 observations of Ross 128 with the HARPS spectrograph, or as the European Southern Observatory calls it, “the planet hunter of ground-based astronomy” in the Chilean desert. The planet doesn’t transit, or pass in front of its star from our point of view, so HARPS must instead measure velocities based on the spectrum of observed light. This time around, the instrument detected the planet with an orbit of 9.9 days, around 20 times closer to its star than the Earth is to the Sun.
There are lots of reasons to have hope about Ross 128 b. The less-active Ross 128 star could make Ross 128 b easier to study than Proxima Centauri b. The planet may be as cold as -76 degrees F, but it might be as nice as 69 degrees F depending on assumptions of how much light it reflects. The broad temperature spread means that scientists won’t call it a “habitable” planet just yet. “It is probably preferable to refer to Ross 128 b as a temperate planet,” the study’s authors write in the study published today in Astronomy & Astrophysics.
Other researchers found the observations convincing. “The results are credible and exciting,” Avi Loeb, chair of the Harvard Astronomy Department, told Gizmodo in an email. “I see no reason to doubt it,” Guillem Anglada-Escude, one of the Proxima Centauri b discoverers from Queen Mary University of London, told Gizmodo in an email. But everyone I spoke to pointed out that only one instrument, HARPS, has made the observation. “It would be good to have independent confirmation with something else,” said Anglada-Escude. “We are already working on this.” The new paper’s authors did not respond to a Gizmodo request for comment.
Perhaps most exciting is the reminder that these teeny M dwarf stars like Proxima Centauri, Ross 128 and TRAPPIST-1 could be ideal places to spot Earth-like planets, rather than stars like the Sun. Ross 128 is only 17 percent the Sun’s mass and 20 percent its radius. And there’s a whole lot of potential for observing these stars. “They’re literally all over the place,” said Rice. “It’s so much parameter space that we haven’t explored, like the size of these stars and the size of these planets. You don’t just want one. You want a bunch of them to figure out the general properties of these things.
Further observations will better characterize these planets’ potential atmospheres. Observations with the new James Webb Space Telescope will probably be “prohibitively expensive,” though other telescopes like the Very Large Telescopes may be able to take on the job.
Advertisement

You may have also heard of the Yuri Milner Breakthrough Initiative to develop a craft to visit Alpha Centauri. Rice wondered why we don’t just visit Ross 128 and its planet instead. “If we get the technology to send something at 10 (or 20) percent the speed of light, it’s not that much more of an investment to send something three times further away,” she said. “They’re already doing something wacky, why not try something three times wackier.”
[Astronomy & Astrophysics]


Yesterday, the Nonhuman Rights Project filed a petition on behalf of three elephants being kept at a Connecticut zoo. The suit demands that the court recognize these animals as “legal persons” and release them to sanctuary, but given that the same legal team failed to secure similar personhood rights for chimps in New York, it’s not immediately clear how successful the new effort will be.
The trio of elephants, Beulah, Karen, and Minnie, never asked for legal representation, but the lawyer in charge of the NhRP suit, Steven Wise, argues that they’re legal persons with the fundamental right to bodily liberty, or in the parlance of lawyers, habeas corpus. The three elephants, ranging in age from 45 to 50, were captured as wild animals when they were young and have been used for decades in traveling circuses, fairs, and even birthday parties. The elephants are currently held at Commerford Zoo in Goshen, CT, and should the NhRP win the suit, the animals would be allowed to retire at the Animal Welfare Society’s ARK 2000 natural habitat sanctuary.
Advertisement

According to a NhRP press release, it’s the first-ever nonhuman rights lawsuit filed on behalf of captive elephants. Unlike efforts elsewhere to recognize the “personhood” of corporations, rivers and natural parks, Wise’s team is claiming that the elephants are bona fide persons—that is, living creatures that are actually capable of self-awareness, empathy, and a sense of the passage of time. In the United States, animals are regarded as property, but should a species be granted personhood rights (which hasn’t happened), individual animals would no longer be subject to such things as confinement at zoos and aquatic theme parks, medical experimentation, trafficking, and other hardships. Importantly, it doesn’t mean they’d be allowed to vote or take out a mortgage. Legal persons are deserving of what ethicists and philosophers call “negative rights,” which means they have a right to not be subjected to an action of another person or group.
To make its case, the NhRP collected affidavits  from nearly a dozen prominent elephant experts, including Lucy Bates, an Honorary Research Fellow at the University of St Andrews, and Richard M. Byrne, a research professor from the University of St Andrews.
“Our understanding of elephants has only deepened over time: for example, we know they have a sense of self, remember the past and plan for the future, engage in complex communication, show empathy, and mourn their dead,” David Zabel, the NhRP’s local counsel in Connecticut and a partner at the law firm of Cohen & Wolf, said in a statement. “But their legal status as ‘things’ with no rights has remained exactly the same. What’s at stake here is the freedom of beings who are no less self-aware and autonomous than we humans are.”
Kerry Bowman, a bioethicist at the University of Toronto, says this latest case is a clear indication of the growing cultural shift in attitudes toward nonhuman life. “This is a truly valid question for the courts of Connecticut as elephants are both sentient and sapient,” he told Gizmodo.
“They used to bark at me when I walked into the courtroom,” lawyer Steven Wise said in the Sundance …
This case in Connecticut isn’t the NhRP’s first rodeo. It’s the same group that filed chimpanzee rights cases in New York starting in 2013, ultimately failing in its objective. Earlier this year, an appeals court put the final nail in the coffin on the NhRP’s chimp effort, stating:
The asserted cognitive and linguistic capabilities of chimpanzees do not translate to a chimpanzee’s capacity or ability, like humans, to bear legal duties, or to be held legally accountable for their actions. [...]
Petitioner argues that the ability to acknowledge a legal duty or legal responsibility should not be determinative of entitlement to habeas relief, since, for example, infants cannot comprehend that they owe duties or responsibilities and a comatose person lacks sentience, yet both have legal rights. This argument ignores the fact that these are still human beings, members of the human community.
The court basically concluded that humans are persons because they’re humans, and that chimps aren’t persons because they’re not humans. Wise has, quite justifiably, construed this as a mistake, and has decided to continue his team’s efforts in both New York and Connecticut, while also broadening the scope to include elephants.
Advertisement

“While each jurisdiction has different statutes and judicial decisions, the substantive law of Connecticut is not that different from that of New York,” Wise explained to Gizmodo. “Therefore we are making substantially similar arguments on behalf of the three elephants. As part of our memorandum to the court we carefully dissect any adverse court decisions in New York so as to demonstrate that they are not only plainly wrong under Connecticut law but plainly wrong under New York law.”
Wise believes that some of the New York courts got their own law wrong and issued decisions that were “remarkable for being unique in the English-speaking world.” For example, Wise says the definition of “personhood” used in the NY courts were pulled from Black’s Law Dictionary—a definition that the dictionary later disavowed. “[We] brought this disavowal to the attention of the court,” said Wise. “Still the court relied upon it.” Wise believes that the New York judges were hearing personhood arguments for the first time, and that it’ll take some time for the concept to become normalized in legal discourse.
As for the change in state, Wise says that “Connecticut was chosen for the specific reason that its law of liberty, equality, autonomy, and habeas corpus are likely more favorable to us than might be the law of many other states. If the Connecticut courts follow their own law, which some judges did not do for their own reasons in New York, we expect to do well. But again, this is a matter of first impression in Connecticut as it was in New York.”
Advertisement

Speaking to The Washington Post, Richard L. Cupp, a Pepperdine law school professor who’s critical of the NhRP’s approach, argued that the best way to protect animals is through animal welfare laws.
“It would not surprise me if these [elephants] could be put in a better situation,” Cupp told WaPo. “But we should focus on human responsibility, either by making sure that our laws are enforced, which sometimes they’re not, or expanding our laws. Our expansion of animal protection laws has been dramatic over the last 20 or 30 years. I’m arguing that should continue.”
Wise, on the other hand, says “this is not an animal welfare case,” and that the three elephants have been deprived of their freedom.
Advertisement

Clearly, this isn’t an issue that’s going away anytime soon. In addition to recognizing the personhood of qualifying nonhuman animals, our technologies may eventually get to the point when we’ll have to start recognizing the moral worth of artificial intelligence and robots. It would be incumbent upon us to get this figured out before we take the monumental step of imbuing sentience into a machine.
[Nonhuman Rights Project]


The data that fitness trackers collect about your body goes far beyond just how many steps you’ve taken, and researchers are just beginning to understand how to harness all that valuable data-collecting power.
A new study from the health startup Cardiogram and UCSF suggests that off-the-shelf wearables like the Apple Watch and Fitbit could be used to accurately detect common conditions like hypertension and sleep apnea. It’s only the latest example in a string of recent studies in which researchers have tapped into the biosensors of wearables to turn them into devices that can detect and monitor serious health conditions.
Advertisement

In the new study, presented on Monday at the American Heart Association’s annual Scientific Sessions, over 6,000 users of the Cardiogram app were recruited to participate in UCSF’s Health eHeart Study. Of them, 2,230 participants had been diagnosed with hypertension and 1,016 had sleep apnea. Researchers trained a machine learning algorithm called DeepHeart on data from 70 percent of participants, both those with sleep apnea and hypertension and those without. They then tested the algorithm on the remaining 30 percent of participants. About 90 percent of the time it was able to accurately detect those with sleep apnea; 82 percent of the time it accurately detected hypertension.
That level of accuracy, the researchers concluded, was high enough to serve as an initial screening, with a traditional doctor’s diagnosis getting the final say. The idea is that your Fitbit or AppleWatch’s heart rate sensor would automatically, constantly screen for those conditions, and flag you to visit the doctor if the algorithm detected anything abnormal.
This was the second collaboration between UCSF and Cardiogram. In their first effort, they similarly found that the Apple Watch could detect a serious but often symptomless type of heart arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation.
In another recent study, researchers at Stanford University designed an algorithm that can sift through hours of heart rhythm data gathered by wearable monitors to determine whether a patient has an irregular heartbeat.
Part of the goal of the work is to determine whether technology like the Apple Watch can even be useful for health at all.
“Simply marketing this as health tech is not sufficient. Companies should be working with clinical researchers to figure out unmet healthcare needs and what works for patients,” senior study author Gregory Marcus, the director of clinical research for UCSF’s cardiology department, told Gizmodo after the initial study.
Advertisement

So far, it seems like the answer may be that the Apple Watch really might be useful.
But in addition to more studies to confirm diagnostic accuracy, researchers will also have to study whether tracking health metrics like heart conditions will actually wind up leading to a positive change in consumer health. While doctors and some insurers have promoted the Apple Watch as a tool for encouraging healthy behavior, it’s not clear that it actually is.  One study last year found that people who wore trackers for 18 months while trying to lose weight actually lost less weight than people who didn’t were untracked.


Back in July, satellite images showed an iceberg bigger than the state of Delaware calving and drifting away from Antarctica’s Larsen C ice shelf. Well, it’s summertime now in Antarctica, which means scientists are finally able to view this behemoth from up close—and the pictures are just as spectacular as we imagined.
Known as iceberg A-68, the gigantic slab of ice weighs about a trillion tons and features a surface area of 2,240 square miles (5,800 square kilometers). The berg is slowly drifting away from the Larsen C ice shelf, possibly heading towards the South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands. As it floats away from the Antarctic Peninsula, A-68 is splintering and forming more icebergs in the process.
Advertisement

This past Sunday November 12th, members of Operation Icebridge—a NASA-led initiative to produce detailed 3D maps of Antarctic and Arctic polar ice—flew a P-3 aircraft armed with a sophisticated array of measuring instruments to take a closer look.
“Perhaps you know the feeling: that moment when you see with your eyes something you have previously only seen in pictures,” wrote science writer Kathryn Hansen, who participated in the trip, in an article penned for NASA’s Earth Observatory. “Before today, I knew the Larsen C ice shelf only from the satellite images we have published since August 2016.”
Hansen said she wasn’t prepared for the enormity of the iceberg, as most bergs she’s seen were relatively small and blocky.
“A-68 is so expansive it appears if it were still part of the ice shelf,” she said. “But if you look far into the distance you can see a thin line of water between the iceberg and where the new front of the shelf begins. A small part of the flight today took us down the front of iceberg A-68, its towering edge reflecting in the dark Weddell Sea.”
In addition to taking photos, the Operational Icebridge scientists sought to measure the depth of water below iceberg, which they did using radar and a gravimeter.
Scientists now have the clearest picture yet of A-68, which will help them track and study its progress moving forward.
[NASA Earth Observatory]


It can’t be stressed enough how crazy gravitational waves are. These supremely violent events take place many light years in the distance, and because they literally alter the shape of space and time, the ripples they produce can be detected on Earth. But gravitational wave astronomy is only in its infancy, and there’s even stranger things yet to be observed.
To date, researchers have only spotted gravitational waves from colliding black holes and colliding stars—that’s what their detectors are set up to do. But new research demonstrates that within the next decade scientists may be able to spot a whole new kind of gravitational wave with a different tool called a pulsar timing array, or PTA. These waves would stem from pairs of black holes millions, even billions times the mass of our Sun orbiting one another like giants dancing and stomping in the distance.
Advertisement

All of the headline-making gravitational wave events you’ve heard about were discovered by LIGO and Virgo, several-mile-long underground tunnels where laser light is split and then brought back together. A gravitational wave makes one of the split beams wobble and interfere with the other beam, making a wave shape visible in a detector. But these detectors can only spot wobbles occurring at least 10 times per second—they’re immune to less frequent ones that might be created by things such as merging galaxies with a pair of orbiting supermassive black holes at their center.
The key to discovering these particular black holes would be a different kind of experiment called pulsar timing arrays (PTAs). These experiments measure the timing of pulsars, light sources that send beams to earth at regular intervals like lighthouses, explains Chiara Mingarelli, astrophysicist from the Flatiron Institute, in a blog post for Scientific American:
PTAs take advantage of the regular arrival times of radio pulses from millisecond pulsars to search for gravitational waves.  When two supermassive black holes coalesce into one, the mergers bathe the universe in low-frequency waves, stretching and squashing the fabric of spacetime. The pulsars and the Earth behave like buoys on the surface of a choppy spacetime sea, bobbing up and down as the waves pass by. This causes changes in the timing of pulsar pulses that can be detected in carefully designed experiments here on Earth.
But Mingarelli’s model, published yesterday in Nature Astronomy, used real data to predict how many and even which galaxies would radiate these waves. “Before, everyone used simulations that couldn’t tell you which galaxies to look at specifically,” she told Gizmodo. “But using my techniques with theoretical galaxy merger rate, we can point to galaxies in the sky and say ‘that one.’” In this case, the most likely merger is M104, the Sombrero Galaxy. That’s because if it had these binaries, they’d orbit each other for a longer period of time and would therefore be more likely to spot.
Ultimately, the discovery of such a gravitational wave will depend on how well the researchers can isolate ambient noise; finding the signal in the noise is something the prediction is reliant upon. Mingarelli also wants to tweak the model to improve how the laws of the Universe affect these galaxy merger rates, since ultimately discovering these waves relies on finding the right galaxy.
With this ten year prediction, it’s now just a game of wait-and-see.
[Nature Astronomy]


Using iron powder to teach kids about the magic of magnets has been a staple of grade school science for decades. The tiny iron particles are seemingly brought to life in the presence of a powerful magnet; an effect that filmmaker Roman De Giuli manages to turn into a moving masterpiece with closeup photography and moody lighting.
Everything you see in De Giuli’s short film, Matereality, was shot using practical effects. In addition to iron powder and magnets, he also introduced reflective pigments and glitter to add another level of eye candy to the complex, ever-evolving patterns the iron powder creates.
[Terracollage]



If you were to ask all of your friends what an ideal society looks like, I’m sure you’d receive vastly different answers. Maybe someone will suggest a society without war where everyone works together to solve problems. Your friend who just finished an Ayn Rand book will say something stupid. And maybe your vegan friend will pipe up and suggest a society without animal agriculture.
I, for one, think such an idea is impossible, but I’m also a morose pessimist who moved to Wisconsin by choice and whose favorite event was an annual pig roast on a dairy farm. But a pair of scientists, one from Virginia Tech and another from the USDA, have made some new calculations based on the wonder: what if the United States really did ditch animals for good? What would a society without animal agriculture look like? Their answer is complicated.
Advertisement

“This assessment suggests that removing animals from US agriculture would reduce agricultural [greenhouse gas] emissions,” write the authors in the study published yesterday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. “but would also create a food supply incapable of supporting the US population’s nutritional requirements.”
Why write such a report? As of today, our society relies on both plants and animals. The Earth’s climate is changing, thanks in part to the gigatons of greenhouse gases we spew into the atmosphere annually. Around a quarter of the United States’ emissions come from agriculture, much of it from animal agriculture. Also, the human population is increasing, we’ll have to feed all of those new people, and agriculture in the US has lots of problems.
The researchers looked at hypothetical changes to the entire livestock process, including people and industry, fuel, and raising crops for animals, for example. They found a 23 percent increase in the amount of food available—mainly in grains—and a 28 percent decrease in agricultural greenhouse gas emissions. However, they only found a 2.6 percent decrease in overall greenhouse gas emissions. They also found deficiencies in the American diet’s essential nutrients.
Many will probably remind me that it is possible to live healthily on a vegan diet, though doing so might require supplements and extra work, including producing more of certain calcium and Vitamin B12-containing foods. Others might remind me that meat replacements like plant-based burgers and lab grown meat should be taken seriously.
But this is just a model, of course, meaning it has limitations and shouldn’t be taken as truth. Some researchers took issue with its conclusions, and thought that restructuring land use could account for the lost nutrients, or that it underestimated the cuts in greenhouse gases that might come from importing meat, according to an article published in Science.
But the truth of the matter is, if this study is to be taken at its word, it still shows that it won’t be easy to just flip the switch and turn everyone vegan. Also, we live in the United States and you should probably call up your relatives, including the ~46 percent of them that voted for the current President, and ask them what they think about the country going vegan.
[PNAS via Science]


There’ve been some incredible images of the James Webb Space Telescope, the next generation telescope and successor to the Hubble. But we’re not really here to look at images of telescopes. We’re here to learn some dope space stuff.
The JWST’s operators at the Space Telescope Science Institute have selected 13 missions as part of their Director’s Discretionary Early Release Science Program, according to a press release. The missions represent over 250 scientists from 18 groups. Perhaps most importantly, the data from these missions will be public.
Advertisement

“There’s no proprietary period,” Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) Director Ken Sembach told Gizmodo. “Scientists anywhere can pull down the data at the same time as the people who proposed the observations.”
The accepted proposal run the gamut of interesting space science. One hopes to better directly image exoplanets. Another will observe the evolution of the chemistry of ice in star-forming systems. Another will map the surface and atmospheres of Jupiter’s moons Ganymede and Io. Yet another will peer deep into a Seyfert galaxy, the kind with a bright core.
But these proposals weren’t selected for the pretty pictures. Instead, they will help scientists better operate the telescope in the future.
“There were several criteria that these projects were judged on,” said Sembach. “One was compelling science, the other was to demonstrate the capabilities of the observatory.” In other words, these projects could potentially offer parameters, documentation, and observations that will help scientists use JWST effectively in the future.
NASA recently delayed the JWST’s launch, claiming that things were taking longer than previously thought. STSci will issue a call for proposals for its first cycle soon, on top of guaranteed proposals. You can also expect head-turning images, but this time around, the scientists want to show the world what the telescope can really do.
“These won’t be the deepest or the most ambitious or the most revolutionary,” said Sembach, “But they will be a very solid foundation on which all of those ambitious revolutionary dramatic observations later will be based.”
[STSci]


When distant black holes (or neutron stars) collide, there’s a lot scientists can tell from the way they send gravitational waves rippling through space. That includes their masses, their distance, or how their spins line up with one another. But one question they’re still trying to figure out is, well, where are they?
There’s more to this story than mere appearances. Decoding the neighborhood around these cataclysmic collisions could shed light on the origin stories of these black holes, and how they came to collide in the first place. Physicists think they’ve got new a way to help tell the full story of these colliding behemoths: by the way they spin into one another.
Advertisement

“We want to think about what’s nearby that can induce ellipticity,” Lisa Randall, Harvard theoretical physicist, told Gizmodo. “There’s this whole category of physics about how the environment can affect the merger.”
When a pair of black holes many times the mass of our sun come rip-roaring towards each other and collide, they send spacetime ripples throughout the universe in the form of gravitational waves. Scientists measure these waves with large experiments, like the two LIGO detectors that announced their gravitational wave discovery back in 2016. The signal looks like a wave quickly increasing in frequency before disappearing, like the sound of a water droplet falling from a faucet.
These signals correspond to a pair of black holes (or neutron stars) spiraling inwards until they collide. But if a third supermassive black hole was nearby, one millions or even billions of times the mass of the Sun, perhaps it would alter the motion and therefore be detectable in the signal, according to Randall’s research published recently on the arXiv preprint server. The presence of some other mass could cause their collision course to take on a more elliptical shape.
Scientists are still trying to understand the mathematics behind measuring this ellipticity. But it’s not easy. “This [effect] is possibly the hardest to account for,” Imre Bartos, assistant professor at the University of Florida explained to Gizmodo, “for computational reasons.”
If scientists could take ellipticity into account, perhaps they could tell how these black holes formed, or even detect the presence of more exotic things, like dark matter. “There’s a lot of different directions to go in and I can’t say which will lead to the most exciting results,” said Randall. “But now that we can actually see colliding black holes, it makes the question, ‘what can we learn from them,’ a lot more interesting.”
[arXiv]
Correction: This article incorrectly mentioned another work that cites this result. That reference has been reviewed.


Despite sounding like an off-brand breakfast cereal, the genetic engineering technique CRISPR has infiltrated the vocabulary of the general public, stoking fierce ethics debates, imaginative renderings of the future and even inspiring a novel and a J.Lo-backed TV series. That’s because CRISPR truly is amazing, allowing human beings to alter genetic code with a level of precision never before achieved. And now there’s actual video footage documenting just how amazing CRISPR really is.

Scientists have already accomplished the incredible with CRISPR, from making allergy-free gluten to editing a human embryo. But, as often is the case in science, the nitty gritty details of exactly how CRISPR works has been a bit of a mystery. Now, a new paper published in Nature Communications Friday provides real-time, molecule-scale footage of CRISPR cleaving a strand of DNA in two.
Advertisement

The video is grainy and dark, but it provides an astonishing first look at CRISPR in action. A team from Kanazawa University and University of Tokyo in Japan used a technique called high-speed atomic-force microscopy to capture the shape of Cas9, the enzyme that actually does the cutting. A tiny needle moves back and forth, rendering details about the enzyme’s shape, moving so quickly that it produces a moving image.
The video took the science world by storm over the weekend, racking up more than 1,500 retweets and thousands of likes. CRISPR is definitely a pop star of the science world—and we’ve only begun to scratch the surface of its potential.


If you’re a fan of a simple oil and vinegar dressing for your salad, your days of having to shake the bottle for a few seconds to mix both ingredients could soon be over. Researchers at MIT have found a way to combine water and oil-based substances so that they stay mixed for months on end.
There are several reasons why oil and water (and water-based solutions like vinegar) resist mixing: oil is less dense than water creating a propensity for it to float on top of H2O, water molecules naturally knit tightly to each other using strong hydrogen bonds, and the fact that oil tends to be hydrophobic, repelling water instead of attracting it. As a result, if you want the two to mix for more than just a few minutes, you’ll need to create an emulsion by vigorously shaking or vibrating the mixture to create tiny droplets that take much longer to coalesce into larger drops and eventually completely separate.
Advertisement

Creating an emulsion is an energy-intensive process, and expensive on an industrial scale. But the new approach developed at MIT is much cheaper and easier to implement. Instead of shaking or blasting a mixture with sound waves, they use the same science that makes your bathroom mirror fog up while you’re taking a hot shower: condensation.

Oil is first mixed with a surfactant, which is a soap-like substance that will easily bind to both oil and water molecules. The oil is placed in a chamber full of humid air and then cooled, which causes the water droplets in the air to condense and form uniform, microscopic droplets that evenly spread through the oil. By tweaking the oil and surfactant mixture just right, the water droplets can be reduced to nanoscale sizes that aren’t as easily affected by gravity, producing emulsions that remain stable for months—not minutes.
Aside from revolutionizing the salad industry, the research could help extend the expiration date of expensive pharmaceuticals that often contain unstable emulsion mixtures resulting in a unreasonably short shelf life.
[MIT]


NASA engineers are currently hard at work developing Space Launch System 1—what will be the biggest, most powerful rocket ever built. The inaugural launch of this behemoth won’t happen any earlier than 2019, but NASA has released a spectacular simulation of the launch to whet our appetites.
If we’re ever going to send humans and heavy equipment to Mars or further out into the Solar System, we’re going to need something like SLS-1 EM-1.

At liftoff the Block 1 configuration provides for 8.8 million pounds of thrust, which is more than 31 times the total thrust of a 747 jet. With that power, this rocket will be able to deliver 154,000 tons to orbit, or about 77 one-ton pickup trucks’ worth of cargo. The system can be easily modified to accommodate cargo-only missions, or crewed journeys into space.
Advertisement

For safety reasons, NASA won’t be sending astronauts into space during the inaugural launch, which may not happen until 2020. Once the rocket is deemed ship-shape, its Orion spacecraft will send four occupants on a roundtrip to the Moon and back. This will serve as an important trial run for the launch we’re all really waiting for—our first crewed journey to Mars.
[NASA]


If you’re into physics making your brain leak out of your ears, you should familiarize yourself with Bose-Einstein condensates. These strange arrangements of atoms can be all the states of matter at once, can look like they have negative mass, and essentially bring the weirdness of quantum mechanics to larger scales.
That means physicists sometimes observe strange new effects in these wacky materials. Most recently, one team observed that, under the right conditions, they could cause a Bose-Einstein Condensate to emit a burst of jets like microscopic fireworks. Check it out:
But what’s going on here? First, the researchers trap and cool cesium atoms in a disk less than ten micrometers in radius  with a pair of lasers—this is the Bose-Einstein condensate. Then they put the whole thing in an oscillating magnetic field. After a few milliseconds, bursts of atoms fly out of the system in jets that resemble fireworks. The modulation is what causes the outburst instead of, say, a halo of matter, explained UChicago physicist and author Cheng Chin. They published the work yesterday in Nature.
Advertisement

The Bose-Einstein condensate’s secret is that certain particles called bosons can, unlike electrons, occupy the same lowest-energy states. From this falls the observation that large collections of atoms begin to show and amplify effects usually only observed in single particles. But adding the modulating field means the particles are no longer only in the ground state, explained Chin.
These bosons then prefer to bunch together when they’re forced out of the disk. But what does that mean? “We try to argue...that the pattern we see is the amplification of quantum fluctuations,” said Chin. Perhaps the experiment is magnifying the quantum world, and the structure of the fireworks can shed light on what’s truly going on in a vacuum.
...Perhaps. Welcome to the quantum universe.
[Nature via UChicago]


Killer mosquitoes are coming—mosquitoes that help kill other mosquitoes, that is.
The Environmental Protection Agency has approved lab-reared mosquitoes infected with the bacterium Wolbachia pipientis to be released into the wilds of 20 states and Washington, DC. The mosquitoes are engineered by the company MosquitoMate so that they deliver the bacterium to wild mosquitoes when released, killing off insects that could transmit viruses such as dengue, yellow fever and Zika.
Advertisement

The technique is a riff on an approach used to manage agricultural pests for more than half a century known as “sterile insect technique.” Using radiation to randomly cause an insect’s genes to mutate, scientists made problematic species like the screwworm unable to produce viable offspring. By 1982, screwworm was completely eradicated from the US.
Mosquitoes, though, are too fragile  to blast with rays of radiation and still be capable of mating in the wild, forcing scientists to turn to other techniques such as genetic engineering or, in this case, the Wolbachia bacterium. The company will rear the infected mosquitoes in its Kentucky lab, sorting non-biting males from females. Then those males will be released at treatment sites to mate with wild females, producing eggs that don’t hatch because the virus prevents paternal chromosomes from developing properly. The idea is that over time, as more male mosquitoes are released to mate with wild females, the population dwindles—without having to resort to pesticides that are not only harmful to people and the environment, but rapidly dwindling in efficacy.
The news was reported first on Tuesday in Nature, and confirmed to Gizmodo by MosquitoMate and the EPA. The EPA said that on November 3 the agency officially registered MosquitoMate’s Asian Tiger mosquito as a new biopesticide, with a five-year license to sell in 20 different states.
MosquitoMate CEO Stephen Dobson told Gizmodo that the company will begin releasing the mosquitoes in the Lexington area next summer, and gradually expand to other nearby metropolitan areas like Nashville and Louisville. The company will contract with local government bodies, as well as sell the mosquitoes direct to home owners via a summer-long subscription.
MosquitoMate is not the only entity to explore the use of lab-grown mosquitoes to kill off pests, but its approach has been far less controversial than some others because it is perceived as a “natural” alternative to pesticides. The British biotech company Oxitec has for years sought approval to release genetically engineered sterile insects in the US, but so far has yet to even gain approval for  open-air tests. In the Florida Keys, for example, the local community railed against Oxitec’s mosquitoes, forcing the company to seek a new location for its trials after a local vote. Meanwhile, MosquitoMate’s trials in the Keys and Fresno, CA attracted little attention.
Dobson told Gizmodo that it is also pursuing the release of the Asian Tiger mosquito nationwide, as well as trials of another species of mosquito, the Aedes aegypti—one of the deadliest species of mosquitoes.


A Seattle-based startup has developed an innovative “skin closure device” that exhibits the anchoring strength of sutures and staples, but is nearly as easy to apply as a bandage. Called microMend, the device is performing well in clinical studies, and it may only be a matter of time before one gets stuck on you.
The device, developed by KitoTech Medical, consists of a thin adhesive strip and two arrays of tiny “microstaples” on either side. To apply it, a nurse or doctor places it across a wound one side at a time, allowing the microstaples to insert into the skin and align on either side of the gash. It’s apparently painless, or at least as painless as something can be when you’re dealing with an injury.
Because the microstaples are packed closely together (5-10 mm apart) there’s virtually no gap in the wound, which lessens the chance of infections, inflammation, and scarring. No needles are required, which, in addition to reducing transmissible infections, is good for those who are squeamish about such things (raises hand). Tension is balanced across the entire wound on account of the way microMend is applied, a procedure similar to applying a bandage. The device covers the entire wound, so an additional layer of adhesive strips isn’t required as frequently as with sutures or staples. In some cases, a doctor can recommend that a patient remove the device by themselves at home.
Advertisement

The device is the brainchild of KitoTech Medical CEO Dr. Ron Berenson, a med-tech entrepreneur who has launched several other startups, including Aequus Biopharma and HemaQuest Pharmaceuticals. As reported by Cici Zhou in Medgadget, KitoTech has finalized the design of the device, rounded up manufacturing partners, and completed a series of clinical trials.
In studies done on pigs, an animal with very human-like skin, microMend worked just as effectively as sutures in closing wounds, while demonstrating “outstanding cosmetic results” when used to close 4.7 inch (12 cm) surgical incisions. During clinical trials with human subjects, microMend was three times faster to apply than sutures, and both healthcare providers and patients preferred the device to sutures and staples in 90 percent of cases. Patients said it was more comfortable to wear and have removed than sutures, and that it did a better job to facilitate healing.
The device is primarily meant for dermatological and plastic surgeries, but it could also be used where speed and cosmetic results are required, such as emergency settings, or vascular, spinal, and laparoscopic surgeries. It could also work well among the elder set, where skin is sometimes too fragile to suture. The device is not recommended for closure of jagged wounds, infected sites, moist bodily areas (such as armpits or groin), and hairy skin, among others.
Clinical studies are still ongoing, but microMend was recently showcased at the Annual Meeting of the American Society for Dermatological Surgery where it was met with positive reviews. The device won’t completely replace the need for staples and sutures, but it could dramatically reduce our reliance on these old-timey medical technologies.
[MicroMend via MedGadget]


Lost for hundreds of years, a recently recovered map of Australia dating back to the 17th century has finally been restored and put on display at a museum in Canberra. The document chronicles the mapping efforts of explorers a full 100 years before Captain James Cook set sail for the Pacific.
It’s called Archipelagus Orientalis (Eastern Archipelago), and it was created by master cartographer Joan Blaeu in 1663. The document, known as the Blaeu map, was re-discovered in 2010 in a Swedish warehouse where the document had been languishing for hundreds of years. Yesterday, after four years of meticulous preservation to stabilize the fragile document, the map returned to its new home at the National Library of Australia in Canberra.
The map is significant because it’s the first to show (most) of the Australian coastline in detail, and because it was created more than a hundred years before British explorer Captain James Cook made his famous voyages through the region in the 1770s. The map is also notable in that it includes the first sightings of Tasmania by Abel Tasman’s crew aboard the Zeehaen in 1642, while also documenting the Dutch discovery of Australia. This map of “New Holland,” as it was called back then, measures 46 inches by 60 inches (1185 mm x 1520 mm), and it was used a template for all of Australia until the times of Cook’s voyages.
Advertisement

Martin Woods, a curator of maps at the National museum, says the map was drawn using thousands of measurements made during about a dozen Dutch voyages, mostly by the Dutch East India company, over the course of three decades. Speaking to The Canberra Times, Woods said:
It’s like a giant news map, if you like. There’s so much information in the text around the map, from trading opportunities to details of the voyages, even the illustrations of the ships in battle, all paint a picture of what was happening. [...]
Although in this map Australia is the centre of attention, to Blaeu and his countrymen it was a puzzle. They cruised the coast, they cruised the north, the south, the west, looking for trading opportunities, occasionally landing, not finding people with goods they recognized they could trade with, sailing off again. Some years later curiosity would get the better of them and another voyage would occur and this pattern continued until they decided to concentrate their efforts in the Spice Islands [in Indonesia] and they left this enigma of Australia alone.
Blaeu’s Map will be on display as part of the museum’s Mapping Our World exhibition in the Library’s Treasures Gallery until next year.
[National Library of Australia, Canberra Times]


If you were to fly over Enceladus’ southernmost regions, you’d witness a remarkable sight. With surprising frequency, this ice-covered moon spurts a plume of water into space—a telltale sign that a global ocean lies underneath. Scientists have struggled to explain how such a tiny moon could sustain enough energy to maintain a liquid ocean, but new research shows that a porous core could do the trick, and that Enceladus has been wet for billions of years—a potential sign of habitability.
New research published in Nature Astronomy is the first to show how Saturn’s moon Enceladus is able to produce sustained hydrothermal activity along its rocky core and maintain a warm subterranean global ocean. Remarkably, the 3D models used for the study indicate that this process, which requires a wet, porous core, has been ongoing for potentially billions of years, an observation that bodes well for astrobiologists in search of microbial alien life.
Advertisement

Enceladus measures about 310 miles (500 km) across and it’s completely covered in an icy shell. At its thickest, this ice runs about 12 to 15 miles (20-25 km) deep, but it thins to just a few miles over the southern polar region. It’s in these southern areas where Enceladus’ geysers can be found, spewing jets of water vapor and icy grains (some containing simple organics) through cracks in the ice.
This moon is literally blowing its ocean into space, and thanks to the Cassini probe, we know this vapor includes salt and silica dust. But for these ingredients to exist, the temperature at the bottom of the ocean must be exceptionally hot. Because of what Cassini uncovered, we know there are some serious chemical reactions happening along the boundary that separates the moon’s liquid ocean from its warm, rocky core.
“In order to explain these observations, an abnormally high heat power (>20 billion watts) is required, as well as a mechanism to focus endogenic activity [i.e. processes within the core] at the south pole,” write the authors in the new study.
Exactly where Enceladus gets all this crazy amount of energy isn’t immediately obvious. The heat required is about 100 times more than what would be expected through the natural decay of radioactive elements within the core’s rocks. More plausibly, a major part of the process has to do with the moon’s host: Saturn. Enceladus spins around its gas giant along an elliptical orbit, where the constant gravitational pushing and pulling creates a tidal effect. At the core, this tidal effect produces friction, and by consequence warmth. Yet this is still not enough energy to counterbalance the heat bleeding off the ocean. By all accounts, this moon should’ve frozen over after about 30 million years, according to scientists.
But it hasn’t, and because Enceladus is still extremely wet and active, something else must be going on. To find out, a team from the US and Europe, led by Gaël Choblet from the University of Nantes in France, ran a series of 3D simulations to see what’s going on inside this moon.
Advertisement

“Where Enceladus gets the sustained power to remain active has always been a bit of mystery, but we’ve now considered in greater detail how the structure and composition of the moon’s rocky core could play a key role in generating the necessary energy,” says Choblet in a statement.
According to the models, the only way for Enceladus to maintain a liquid ocean is by having a core made up of unconsolidated, easily deformable, porous rock. With a highly permeable rocky core featuring upwards of 20 to 30 percent empty space, cool liquid water can rush in and get warmed by the tidal friction (temperatures at the core can reach as much as 363 Kelvin or 90 degrees Celsius). When the water gets hotter than its surroundings, it rises and gets flushed out of the core via narrow cracks, similar to hydrothermal vents at the bottom of Earth’s oceans. This process repeats itself creating a hydraulic cycle of sorts; every 25 to 250 million years or so, the entire volume of Enceladus’ ocean goes through the moon’s core. Incredibly, this activity can be maintained for billions of years, according to the models.
Advertisement

This study, says NASA Astrobiology Institute scientist Christopher Glein, provides a solution to an important problem: how to make hydrothermal systems inside a small icy moon.
“We are closer than before at bridging observations and theory, and chemistry and physics to arrive at a more complete understanding of how Enceladus works,” explained Glein, who wasn’t involved in the new study, in an email to Gizmodo. “I am very excited by the potential for hydrothermal systems on a world beyond Earth to provide energy and nutrients that could support a form of life. This study advances the case that Enceladus is one of the hottest destinations for this century of space exploration.”
Indeed, in addition to having warm water, organic molecules, and other “building blocks” of life, it’s had an ocean for potentially billions of years—enough time (at least in theory) for simple microbial life to emerge. But we’ll only know by exploring this moon even further.
Advertisement

“These scientists have done great work,” Jonathan Lunine, an astronomer at the Cornell Center for Astrophysics and Planetary Science (also not involved in the new study) told Gizmodo. “Tidal heating in a heavily fractured wet core makes sense and enhances ocean heating.”
Likewise, Hunter Waite, the program director for NASA’s Space Science and Engineering Division, says the research makes sense, pointing to a study he co-authored earlier this year. “Dissipation of tidal heating within the rock is an important factor in hydrothermal activity and hydrogen production as discussed in our Science paper on molecular hydrogen production,” he told Gizmodo.
The new study, while it explains Enceladus’ liquid global ocean, internal heating, thinner ice at the south pole, and hydrothermal activity, doesn’t explain why the northern polar region features ancient ice covered in craters. The models predict thinning at both poles, so something else is going on that still needs to be studied.
[Nature Astronomy]


In the past, the US Food and Drug Administration has closely scrutinized consumer DNA tests that claim to inform customers whether or not they’re are at risk for a certain health condition, and with good reason: An incorrect interpretation could lead to serious health consequences and stress.
But a statement on Monday from FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb indicates that the agency will soon be loosening regulations for genetic health risk tests.
Advertisement

“Consumers are increasingly embracing genetic health risk (GHR) testing to better understand their individual risk for developing diseases,” Gottlieb said. “This engagement prompts some people to make more informed lifestyle choices.”
The newly proposed regulations will allow genetic health tests to make it to market without prior review. Companies seeking to sell such tests would have to come to the FDA for a one-time review. But after getting that initial FDA stamp of approval, any subsequent genetic health test the company develops will not face further regulatory hurdles.
“Our goal is to streamline the regulatory pathway to get innovative medical products to people more efficiently, while providing the FDA assurances that consumers seek,” said Gottlieb.
The proposed regulations, if approved, would be an expansion of the deal the agency offered genetic testing giant 23andMe earlier this year. Originally, 23andMe offered assessments for more than 250 diseases and conditions, but in 2013 the FDA cracked down and ordered the company to cease providing analyses of people’s risk factors for disease until the tests’ accuracy could be validated. In April, the FDA gave the company the green light to market tests for 10 diseases or conditions directly to consumers and announced that future 23andMe tests would be exempt from premarket review by the agency. At the time, the move was expected to lead to less regulation for genetic health risk tests across the board.
Gottlieb said that consumer genetic tests don’t “fit squarely” into the agency’s “traditional risk-based approach to device regulation.”
“While these tests can offer significant amounts of personal risk information, they’re not without their own risks,” he said, “especially if they provide consumers with incorrect or misleading information that may be used to make health choices without considering the advice of a medical professional.”
Advertisement

He noted that the goals of the new rules are similar to that of the “FDA Pre-Cert” program pilot that FDA unveiled in September to regulate digital health products. Instead of vetting each individual product before it hits the marketplace, the agency wants to assess the validity of a company’s methodologies and practices.
The FDA commissioner said recently that he plans to “deregulate by regulating.” While Gottlieb has signaled a path towards less regulation of genetic health tests, ultimately Monday’s news may be a hint that the agency plans to place more scrutiny on a consumer genetic testing market in which experts have raised significant concerns about accuracy, reliability and privacy.


Humans like naming things. We named a boat Boaty McBoatface. We named a bunch of animals after dicks. But some things already have perfectly good names. Like a distant rock NASA is tasking us with nicknaming.
New Horizons, the mission that showed us Pluto’s icy heart, is whizzing into the outer reaches of the Solar System. On New Year’s Day 2019, it will approach a small body (or pair of bodies). NASA needs help nicknaming this rock (or these rocks). But here’s the rub: It’s already called (486958) MU69... MU69 for short.
Advertisement

You don’t need me to tell you why MU69 is a nice name, but I will anyway. 69 is the sex number. It is one of the Good Numbers, along with 420, 666 and 311. We revere 69. We say “nice” afterwards like we say “bless you” after a sneeze.
But Mark Showalter and the New Horizons Science Team have the gall to request a nickname for something already so well-named—and to call MU69 “unexciting.” They’ve presented a list of markedly un-sexy names like “Año Nuevo,” “Camalor,” “Mjölnir,” and “Peanut.” And, if MU69 really is a binary system, the pair of rocks each 20 kilometers in diameter might really be 69-ing.
So, join me in giving these distant worlds the nice names they deserve. You can nominate here. And let’s name them something special. Here are some ideas:
“The 69ers”
“The Sex Rocks”
“6" and “9"
Or maybe we just nickname them what we’ve always nicknamed things numbered 69:
“Nice.”
[via New Horizons]


When a consumer genetic testing company planned to give away free DNA tests to Baltimore Ravens fans in September, the federal government intervened and prompted a last-minute cancellation. Now, a federal agency has found that the startup, Orig3n, does not have the necessary legal certification to sell genetic tests related to health.
Orig3n had planned to offer cheek swabs and genetic analysis testing for four different genes to game attendees, including  one related to the body’s ability to regulate vitamin D flagged as  health-related by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. In a letter dated Oct. 30 sent to Orig3n, CMS identified 18 heath-related genes in Orig3n’s tests that the company will either have to stop including in its testing products or seek to obtain  a certificate saying that it meets what’s known as the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988. A CLIA certificate is something akin to an FDA approval alternative, validating not the results of a test but that the lab that produced them operated according to certain quality standards.
Advertisement

Orig3n sells tests that claim to assess traits related to fitness, nutrition, and beauty for as much as $149. In a response to CMS, the company argued that it was exempt from certification because it does not claim to provide health information. CMS found otherwise, responding that its tests indeed “provide genetic testing that provides information for the assessment of health.” The genes the agency cited include those related to cholesterol, bone strength, sugar sensitivity, and vitamin regulation.
“To apply for CLIA certification, Orig3n must contact both the Massachusetts and California State Agencies immediately for guidance,” the letter said, instructing Orig3n to seek certification in the two states where the company operates labs.
Orig3n told Gizmodo that it has already removed the 18 genes in question from its products, and will continue to sell them without those select genes. The company said that it has also replaced one of the genes in its Explorer DNA product that it had planned to give away at the Ravens game.
“Once we receive CLIA certification, we will resume offering those 18 genes,” company COO Kate Blanchard said in an emailed statement. “We have been pursuing CLIA certification for some time, a process that predates our recent communications with CMS.”
She went on to contradict the company’s assertion that its products are not intended to be used as an assessment of health.
“Orig3n is focused on advancing the future of health because we don’t think the current trial-and-error approach to healthcare is enough. We believe everyone should have access to personalized care,” she wrote.
Advertisement

And in the aftermath of the Ravens fiasco, Gizmodo has learned that Orig3n continued to give away its tests to sports fans despite the investigation into whether the company needed to seek additional certification.
After reading Gizmodo’s initial story, a Celtics fan contacted Gizmodo to say that Orig3n had been at the basketball team’s October 18 home game, both collecting blood samples for research and offering free cheek swabs for its DNA Explorer kit. The fan did the test and shared his results with Gizmodo. It contained one of the 18 genes blacklisted by CMS. Orig3n said results related to that gene would no longer show up online for those that have already done the test.
Since CMS had not yet determined which genes fall under CLIA regulation (or if any of them did) it is not clear whether Orig3n was actually in violation of any rules or requests. But after the Ravens giveaway was cancelled pending investigation into the company’s tests, it seems at minimum very strange that it continued giving the tests away at other games.
Advertisement

In the end, this will all likely wind up written off as a relatively minor regulatory snafu. But the attention it has attracted—the Ravens story found its way into the Washington Post, ESPN and the Baltimore Sun, among others—seems indicative of a growing suspicion  of consumer DNA testing. Experts have already raised concerns about the dubious nature of genetics tests that claim to assess traits like athleticism. (Gizmodo tried out Orig3n’s tests, and found the results were basically worthless.) They have also cited concerns over the privacy policies that govern such tests. Orig3n’s current privacy policy, for example, says that once you have consented to use of your genetic information, you cannot revoke that consent ever, granting Orig3n the right to use your genetic information whenever and wherever it sees fit.
Typically, the FDA has shied away from exercising regulatory authority over tests that do not directly indicate risk of disease. CMS’ actions, though, may be an indication that other consumer testing companies may also face the wrath of regulatory scrutiny in the future.


Physicists often build experiments looking for a specific something. Maybe that something consists of dark matter, new kinds of particles, or new ways that particles might interact with one another. Other physicists are trying to use these experiments’ old data in new ways, to look for something other than that specific something.
Confused? Here’s an example: One researcher is hunting for a less popular idea to explain dark matter, the elusive source of most of the Universe’s gravity. He’s using data from an experiment designed to observe a less exotic thing. This is physics, so he hasn’t found anything yet. But that doesn’t stop the results from being important.
Advertisement

“We didn’t see [the new particles], but I wasn’t surprised,” Jonathan Davis from King’s College, London told Gizmodo. “This is more of a proof of concept showing that you can use new ideas to probe all sorts of energies.”
You might be familiar with an important cosmic conundrum. Regular matter only makes up four percent of the Universe’s energy, while some sort of strange, invisible “dark matter” makes up around 25 percent (a mysterious thing called dark energy makes up the rest). One especially promising candidate is “weakly interacting massive particles,” or WIMPs, that consist of a hypothetical particle that causes such a tiny jostle on atoms that scientists haven’t seen it yet. Davis is instead looking for a hypothetical particle stronger than the proposed WIMPs but still too weak for regular experiments to detect.
It’s a SIMP, for “strongly interacting massive particle.” The interaction between a SIMP and a nucleus might be as strong as the interactions between the particles within the nucleus.
WIMP-hunting experiments exist and are buried deep underground to filter out more strongly-interacting particles. But researchers haven’t found any WIMPs yet. The thick rock above these experiments would stop the SIMPs, though. So Davis asked the physicists at the CRESST collaboration in Germany if he could look at the data from their v-cleus experiment. This sapphire crystal-containing detector sits on the Earth’s surface and is cooled. In theory, the temperature of the detector should increase by a tiny amount should a particle pass by; SIMPs would leave a specific signature in the data.
Davis didn’t find anything with the preliminary, proof-of-concept run, according to the paper published recently in Physical Review Letters, but he was able to help physicists understand what a SIMP can’t look like. That’s of crucial importance to particle physics so other experimenters don’t have to look for the same kinds of particles.
The experiment didn’t rule out as many possible particles as some others have and overlapped with some existing experiments, pointed out one physicist, James Beacham from CERN and the Ohio State University in an email to Gizmodo. Still, “I love results like these, and they’re a large part of the bread-and-butter of theorists and phenomenologists, since we experimentalists rely upon them to scrutinize our results after they’re released to point out where new physics could still be hiding and how we could have missed it in our data.”
Advertisement

Another CERN physicist, Steven Lowette, was excited about the results, since he’s similarly hunting for SIMPs at the LHC, and other particles that might have slipped past other physicists. “The SIMP is one that would give a special signature the LHC was not built for.”
Davis’ is another interesting example of physicists using existing experiments in different ways than they were intended in order to find new particles or phenomena others might not be looking for. Beacham himself has tried to coordinate searches like these. Other physicists are trying to take advantage of vacant physical space near other experiments, like walls or steam tunnels near the high-energy particle collisions of the LHC. Here they might make far cheaper (sometimes plastic) additions, like MoEDAL and MilliQan to spot particles the original experiment wasn’t meant to find.
But Davis himself wants to see more directed searches for these SIMPs and other exotic particles.
Advertisement

“Hopefully it will encourage people to build experiments to look for other sorts of weird dark matter.”
[PRL]


We’re always open to original feature pitches from writers! Please see specific guidelines for Gizmodo and io9 below to get you started.
Our rates vary according to experience and the scale of the project. You can reach us at pitches@gizmodo.com or email me directly at marina@gizmodo.com.
Pitches related to technology and science are welcome, including but not limited to digging up space history, exploring internet subcultures, and calling bullshit on pseudoscience. We’re interested in gadgets, chemistry, consumer technology, animals, net neutrality, aliens, CRISPR, cloning, robotics, transportation, sexuality and tech, social media, addiction, psychology, the future, and more. There’s a lot of flexibility. Send us something exciting, urgent, or secret, and we’ll talk it out. Please make sure your pitch is original—either about something and someone not widely covered, or a completely new approach to the subject.
Advertisement

Reported features: We’re looking for focused, narrative-driven deep dives of all lengths, with human characters and a timely theme. It can be an investigation with a scoop, a newsy report, or an ambitious long-form exploration. It can be about an egregious vaporware trend, a controversial scientific movement, a critical internet drama, a pressing national health issue or a malicious tech phenomenon—as long as there are people. Interviews with involved parties and experts in the field are required, unless everyone involved is dead, in which case, ask a historian.
Experiential pieces: If you’re planning on attending an event, a convention, a conference, or a club meeting, or going anywhere where something  remarkable is happening, tell us about it. Use personal voice sparsely, unless you yourself had an extraordinary experience.
Profiles: If you have exclusive access to a rarely interviewed person of interest, or if you’ve found someone whose story needs to be told for the first time, this is a good fit. We need stories told with empathy and a critical eye, and involve experts and outside sources.
Consumer tech reviews: Do you have particular expertise or unique perspective on a gadget or another consumer technology? We want to hear about your ideas for reviews of gadgets beyond the iPhone—they can be useful, nostalgic, massive, repurposed, for science or for your cat.
Interviews: Thoughtful, engaging conversations with people who are currently publishing a topical book or invented something revolutionary, or people in the foreground of a developing news story are appreciated.
Recurring series: We’re currently developing several recurring features and series of related articles. You can pitch a post for the weekly Giz Asks series—important or unusual questions about science and technology answered by experts—or these researched lists of fabled tech fails. If you have an idea for your own recurring series or a column, let us know!
Please, don’t pitch: Short blog posts, news summaries, or fiction.
What to send: A paragraph or two that includes a summary of your story, who you’re planning to interview, and a quick note about why you think this story is right for Gizmodo. Please include a link to your portfolio or relevant clips.
Feature-length, researched articles on all things science fiction, fantasy, supernatural horror and their related fandoms—books, television, film, comics, internet communities, IRL gatherings, pop culture, and nerd culture. We welcome oral histories, relevant (science, technology, or entertainment) expert commentary on a show/movie/etc, interviews or profiles of people doing something extraordinary, devoted, cool or rare, explorations of a particular film/tv genre/trope, pieces solving a mystery or correcting a mistake, or a visit to a convention, club or event (not Comic-Con, we got that).
Advertisement

Please, don’t pitch: Reviews (unless you have an inside or expert perspective on the subject), news hits, lists, or fiction.
What to send: A paragraph or two that includes a summary of your story, who you’re planning to speak to or what research you’ll be doing for the story, and a quick note about why you think it’s right for io9. Please include a link to your portfolio or relevant clips.


Nobel Prize winner Frank Wilczek was optimistic back in 2012. After all, he’d just won a wager after scientists had just announced their Higgs boson discovery at the Large Hadron Collider particle physics experiment in Switzerland. He made another bet—but he’s doesn’t feel as confident today.
Wilczek made his new bet with Swedish physicist Tord Ekelöf. The terms were simple: If scientists discover evidence of a new kind of “superpartner” particle at the LHC by 2019, he’d win 100 chocolate Nobel Prizes. If not, he’d have to pay up.
Advertisement

“The LHC has already done a lot of the exploration that it will have done by the end of the terms of the bet,” Wilczek told Gizmodo over Skype. “The window of opportunity is closing pretty rapidly, I’m afraid.”

Supersymmetry, or SUSY, is the theory at the center of the bet. Essentially, some of particle physics’ woes and theories currently fixed with bandaids would make a whole lot more sense if we found an entirely new set of particles. These particles are also candidates for the elusive dark matter, the stuff that makes up most of the mass of the universe whose identity scientists are still unsure of.
Superpartners link the two larger groups of particles, bosons and fermions. SUSY says that every boson, like the force-carrying photons and gluons, would have a complimentary, heavier fermion. Every fermion, like quarks and electrons, would have a complimentary, heavier boson. They’d have silly names like squarks, photinos and Winos, the W-boson’s superpartner (not your barbecue-ruining uncle).
Despite a tantalizing but ultimately unfounded hint last year, LHC physicists have not found any superpartners. That disappointed some physicists recently interviewed by the New York Times, and the lost hope has been compounded by the continued lack of discovery in dark matter experiments. But it’s possible that the LHC just doesn’t have the energy to create these heavy superpartners.
Wilczek thought the physics community would need to be very lucky for the LHC to find evidence of supersymmetry by 2020. And, while physicists are always hunting for new ways to spot particles in their data, it will be several decades (maybe) before a new collider can hunt for higher energy particles. Things certainly aren’t hopeless, they just aren’t happening as fast as some might like. Ekelöf did not respond to a request for comment by publishing time, but I will update the post when I hear back.
Advertisement

As for the chocolate coins, “you get them at the Nobel museum,” said Wilczek. I asked him how they tasted. “Let’s put it this way—it’s not [the museum’s] selling point.”


As long as there has been a Joker—and we’re going on eighty years with this guy—there has been, as well, a Joker venom. It debuted alongside him, in 1940s Batman #1, and has been a part of his arsenal ever since.
Though its side effects have varied over the years, it has remained in each iteration a gruesomely unpleasant murder tool (or non-fatal face-mangling tool, as the case may be). The uncontrollable laughter’s not so bad, but the rapid shutdown of all heart and brain function is, I’d argue, extremely bad. Worst of all, though, is going to the grave with that iconically hideous grin.
Advertisement

But could such a toxin actually exist? No single one of its effects would seem impossible to reproduce in isolation, but a venom with all or most of them is a different question—one which forms the basis of this week’s Giz Asks, for which we reached out to a number of experts on the subject of venom.

Author of Venomous: How Earth’s Deadliest Creatures Mastered Biochemistry
I think the answer is, “it depends.”
It’s theoretically possible to induce random laughing fits, because that’s one of the symptoms of a disease called Kuru (kind of like Mad Cow). The disease is caused by a misfolded protein (a prion) that people can get into their bodies when they consume tissues laden with it... which, in the case of Kuru, was discovered because of cannibalistic traditions. The prion induces properly-folded versions of itself to misfold, and the accumulation of these “bad” proteins leads to brain lesions that can cause neurological symptoms like laughing fits.
So you could, theoretically, create a drinkable liquid or an injectable with such toxins that would induce laughing fits by causing brain damage. That brain damage is irreversible, so it is eventually lethal, too. Of course, the creation of these lesions takes time—years, even decades, in cases of Kuru—so it wouldn’t be the instantaneous onset of laughing fits. You might be able to engineer a prion or something else that works faster, though. Maybe. I don’t think anyone has tried, of course.
There are also illicit drugs which induce euphoria, which could potentially make someone laugh. Though it wouldn’t be forced, uncontrolled laughter like with brain damage so much as extreme joy and happiness, which might sometimes or frequently present as laughing fits. It would likely be difficult to create a drug that was targeted enough to cause such euphoria almost instantly without throwing off the rest of the body and brain (thereby killing the victim before they get to the happy, giggly place). So I’d say it’s possible, but probably really unlikely, that a “laughing drug” which reliably induced laughing followed by paralysis could be developed.
So, in short: It might be possible to create a chemical cocktail that makes people laugh uncontrollably and die, or one that makes them really happy and giggly and then die, or simply die really quickly from rigid paralysis. But the characteristic joker face in death is unlikely.
Oh, and none of this could be done in a closet by mixing cleaning chemicals. This would be serious designer lab stuff, probably cost a fortune to make, and likely require special storage and handling.
Assoc. Professor, Australian Institute for Tropical Health and Medicine
There is no venomous animal on the planet that could do [everything the Joker Venom does]. Having said that, there are components of different animal venoms in the animal kingdom that could, in combination. My understanding of the Joker is that he’s quite a smart chemist, so it would be possible to extract the components from those venoms and put them all together.
If you were looking for a component of a venom that caused cardiac standstill very quickly, you could get that from boxed jellyfish venom. A large quantity of of boxed jellyfish venom, in a human, would cause cardiac standstill within seconds. And if you diluted it, it could take minutes, depending on what you wanted to do with it.
If you were looking for a contraction of facial muscles, the Cone snail’s venom does exactly that.
Shutting the brain down is a little bit more difficult, because of the blood-brain barrier. To make that happen, you’d have to inject the venom directly into the central nervous system. But there is a wasp that does that. Basically, it injects the venom into the central nervous system, and it goes straight to the brain. So it has to go in through the spinal column, or the brain itself.
But, if you wanted to cause paralysis of the nervous system, that’s quite simple. There are a variety of animals that do that. One of those is the Blue-ringed octopus, whose entire venom is aimed at causing nervous pulse cessation. Someone that’s stung by one of those animals is completely alive, but they can’t move any of their voluntary muscles.
So: if you were to mix the toxin from a boxed jellyfish, the toxin from a Cone snail, and the toxin from a Blue-ringed octopus, then you would cause cardiac standstill almost instantaneously, you would cause all the muscles in the face and body to contract, and you would cause all neural cessation to stop throughout the body. Eminently doable!
If a toxin is injected—if you’re bitten, or stung—it’s a venom. If the toxin is ingested or inhaled, it’s a poison. Botulinum, which is a poison, causes contraction of muscles, and that could be [made into] a gas—but it wouldn’t cause cardiac standstill. I don’t know of any ingested poison or ingested toxin that would cause cardiac standstill in a short period of time. They just don’t work that way.
PhD Student in Biological Physics, Structure, and Design at the University of Washington
Unfortunately, people have already concocted compounds at least as horrible as the Joker’s venom. And yes, the Nazis are involved.
In the 1930s, a German chemist named Gerhard Schrader was trying to invent a new kind of pesticide. He claims he wanted to end world hunger. In the process, he stumbled on a class of phosphorous-containing compounds so nightmarishly lethal that the Nazis—who he worked for—refused to deploy it. Schrader is now known as the “father of nerve agents,” having boosted the toxicity and deliverability of his compounds.
He wasn’t the only one. Scientists in the UK and Russia eventually tried their hands at these dark arts, producing some of the most toxic chemicals the world has ever seen. Even brief exposure to strong nerve agents, by air or by skin, can lead to excruciating whole-body muscle contractions and death by asphyxiation within minutes. And despite being banned everywhere on Earth, we’ve seen the Syrian and North Korea governments use nerve agents during the Obama years.
Do you have a question for Giz Asks? Email us at tipbox@gizmodo.com.


The first mammals emerged during the reign of the dinosaurs, adopting a nocturnal lifestyle to stay safe. It was only until the dinosaurs were wiped off the face of the planet that certain mammals began to assert themselves during the daylight hours, according to new research.
New evidence published in Nature Ecology & Evolution suggests that the first diurnal (daytime) mammals emerged at some point between 52 to 33 million years ago. The timing would suggest that mammals had been “stuck” in a nocturnal mode of existence during the reign of the dinosaurs, which ended some 66 million years ago, and that the sudden disappearance of dinos allowed mammals to assert themselves during the day. The new study improves our understanding of mammalian evolution, but other researchers say more evidence is required for us to be absolutely certain about the timing of this important transition.
Advertisement

Mammalian fossils dating back to this period are hard to come by, but even if paleontologists and evolutionary biologists had tons of fossils, it would still be hard to discern an animal’s behavior from a pile of bones—including whether or not an animal was active during the day or night. That said, scientists are reasonably confident, based on the scant fossil evidence they do have, that the first mammals were nocturnal. They’re just not sure when our distant ancestors first started to emerge from the darkness.
To get a better sense of when this happened, a team of researchers from the University of College-London and Tel Aviv University constructed multiple family trees (phylogenies) based on the 2,415 species of mammals alive today.
“The study uses the evolutionary relationships to determine when mammals started moving around in the daylight,” P. David Polly, an Adjunct Professor of Biology and Anthropology at Indiana University who wasn’t involved in the new study, told Gizmodo. “These scientists wanted to know whether this group, which includes us, evolved eyesight that functions well in broad daylight before or after the dinosaurs became extinct. At the heart of the question is whether the dinosaurs held back the diversification of mammals.”
Both of the phylogenic timelines constructed by the researchers pointed to the same conclusion: mammals switched over into diurnal mode only after the dinosaurs were gone. The change was gradual, however, requiring millions of years of evolution; the “big switch” happened at some point between 52 to 33 million years ago (that’s a big window, even for evolutionary biology).
“We were very surprised to find such close correlation between the disappearance of dinosaurs and the beginning of daytime activity in mammals, but we found the same result unanimously using...alternative analyses,” explained lead author Roi Maor in a statement.
Of significance, ancestors of simian primates, such as gorillas, gibbons, and tamarins, were among the first to reject the night life. The new analysis is consistent with the fact that simian primates are the only mammals to have evolved adaptations to seeing well in daylight.
“It’s very difficult to relate behaviour changes in mammals that lived so long ago to ecological conditions at the time, so we can’t say that the dinosaurs dying out caused mammals to start being active in the daytime,” said study co-author Kate Jones. “However, we see a clear correlation in our findings.”
Advertisement

A lot of what the study shows was already known, said Polly, namely that the ancestors of mammals were nocturnal and that the first groups to utilize twilight or full daylight probably arose after the extinction of the dinosaurs. “The nice thing about the study is that the authors addressed the question quantitatively using data from many living mammals in combination with an evolutionary tree, or phylogeny.”
That said, Polly said the paper is based on a phylogeny that’s controversial in terms of which different subgroups of mammals arose.
“Both trees used by the authors put many of the splits in the Mesozoic period, before dinosaurs became extinct, whereas many scientists, especially paleontologists, would put those splits after the extinction based on the [fossil record],” Polly told Gizmodo. “For example, [the researchers] assume that the group of primates that includes monkeys, apes, and tarsiers originated before the extinction, which is highly unlikely given the quality of the fossil record of primates. If correct, the dates [given by the researchers] for the first daytime mammals would be pushed younger if their own analysis was adjusted.”
Advertisement

Despite this, Polly says their estimate of 52 to 33 million years is not unreasonable, and that “the diversification in sight specializations may have occurred over a more compressed interval of time than their analysis suggests.”
David Grossnickle, an evolutionary biologist from the University of Chicago, also not involved in the new study, agrees with Polly, saying a study based solely on phylogeny has its limitations.
“A majority of the mammalian species from the Mesozoic (or Age of Dinosaurs) went extinct and have no living descendants,” Grossnickle told Gizmodo. “Basically, much of the mammalian evolutionary tree is not represented in studies that only use data from modern species, such [as this study]. With this kind of data it’s difficult to infer behaviors of mammals tens of millions of years ago, because most species living tens of millions of years ago simply don’t have living representatives... I think their study is a strong contribution to our understanding of early mammal evolution, but I recommend caution when inferring traits of ancient mammals from modern mammals alone.”
Advertisement

Also, and as Grossnickle pointed out to Gizmodo, this new research contradicts another recent study arguing that diurnal behavior in mammals first arose about 10 million years after the extinction of dinosaurs. “[The] question of when diurnal behavior arose remains unsettled, although the recent research has made great strides toward addressing the question.”
Biologist Stephen Brusatte from the University of Edinburgh said the team did a “great job” in mapping out the patterns of modern mammals on a family tree, and by running a variety of statistical tests to estimate when different types of activity patterns, like daytime behavior, evolved.
“But until we find a way to look at fossils and directly figure out how these extinct animals were behaving, it will still be a prediction,” he told Gizmodo. “It may be that the end-Cretaceous extinction caused a big shift from nocturnal to diurnal mammals, but it wouldn’t surprise me if some mammals living alongside the dinosaurs were also active during the day and we just haven’t found a good way to determine that yet. That will be the next big step in testing these results.”


Galaxies didn’t always take on the beautiful spiral shape we’ve come to associate with Andromeda and our own Milky Way. Looking far away into deep space—and into the past—ancient galaxies mostly look like giant blobs. But thanks to gravity’s light-bending properties, scientists have spotted a confounding thing in the distance: what appears to be the oldest spiral yet.
There’s still debate as to the exact conditions required to form spiral arms, and whether they’re permanent or temporary galactic features. But, if truly a spiral, then this newly discovered galaxy could help scientists understand when, how and why spiral arms form.
Advertisement

“Detailed observations of spiral galaxies at high redshift,” like this new bad boy, “will enable meaningful investigations into these physical processes that remain elusive in simulations,” the authors write in the paper published in the Astrophysical Journal.
Gravity confers a massive benefit to astronomers hoping to study the most distant reaches of the Universe: it bends the shape of space, and therefore bends the path of light traveling past the largest clusters. This is similar to how a magnifying glass works, but using galaxies and spacetime instead of glass.
The international team of scientists found two magnified images of the galaxy, called A1689B11, in two different points of the sky around their magnifying glass, a cluster of galaxies called Abell 1689. They followed the initial discovery with a year of measurements using the Hawaiian Gemini North telescope’s “Near-infrared Integral-Field Spectrograph” tool. This tool could help resolve the velocity of the gases in the distant spinning blob.
The measurements revealed a disk-shaped galaxy spinning towards Earth on one side and away from Earth on the other, as well as a spiral arm, 2.6 billion years after the universe first formed. That’s ancient—today we know the universe is around 14 billion years old.
The image still looked like a blob to me, so I passed it along to other researchers to see what they thought.  Asantha Cooray, physics and astronomy professor at the University of California-Irvine agreed in an email that the spiral image alone wasn’t clear and instead could have been merging galaxies. “But in such situations the velocity field would be more complex than [the one] seen in the data....While [it’s a] bit of a step to then say it’s a spiral galaxy I think its fine given what we know about galaxies.”
David Law, associate astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute and part-discoverer of the now-second most ancient spiral galaxy, agreed that the results were suggestive—but “this galaxy seems to have a dispersion more akin to modern-day disk galaxies,” he said in an email. “I look forward to seeing how the results shown here evolve with deeper Keck/OSIRIS observations.” He was happy to see the gravitational lensing technique revealing what might have been otherwise hidden.
Scientists seem to be in agreement that NASA’s new James Webb Space Telescope, scheduled to launch in 2019, will change the game. The paper’s authors write: “future observations with JWST will greatly increase the sample of these rare galaxies and unveil the earliest onset of spiral arms.”
[ApJ]


Speaking at a science conference in Ottawa on Thursday, Canada’s newly appointed governor general, Julie Payette, directed some harsh comments towards climate skeptics, astrologists, and believers of “divine intervention.” Critics complained that it’s not the governor general’s place to get involved in such matters, but Prime Minister Justin Trudeau defended the speech.
That Julie Payette, 54, would be a such staunch supporter of science is hardly a surprise. The computer and electrical engineer flew on two Space Shuttle missions (in 1999 and 2009), logging 25 total days in space. She was appointed governor general on July 13th, 2017 by the Trudeau government, and she hasn’t wasted time in making her mark—particularly when it comes to the promotion of science.
Advertisement

At this week’s Canadian Science Policy Conference, Payette argued for greater public acceptance of science, saying it’s time for Canadians step away from false beliefs such as astrology and divine intervention, while speaking out against people who insist that human activity isn’t responsible for climate change.
Such language isn’t typical of a Canadian governor general. As a state-appointed representative of the Queen, it’s a position of mere symbolic importance. As governor general, Payette is supposed to be an impartial overseer of the democratic process, and not get involved in politics or spiritual matters. That said, there’s nothing in the Canadian constitution that precludes the governor general from speaking out. And indeed, this latest governor general is not like the others, and she’s not holding back.
“So many people...still believe—want to believe—that maybe taking a sugar pill will cure cancer...and that your future [and your personality]...can be determined by looking at planets coming in front of invented constellations,” she said during the speech. In a clear reference to Creationists, Payette said we’re “still debating and still questioning whether life was a divine intervention,” or whether it came from the natural, random process of Darwinian natural selection.

On the topic of climate change, Payette said: “Can you believe that still today in learned society, in houses of government, unfortunately, we’re still debating and still questioning whether humans have a role in the Earth warming up or whether even the Earth is warming up, period?”
This isn’t the first time that Payette has dared to address climate change, having mentioned it in two of her three previous public engagement (including her acceptance speech as Canada’s new governor general). As Canada’s new GG, she appears to have taken up climate change as a main cause.
Later, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau praised Payette’s speech, saying she stands in support of science and the truth. “We are a government grounded in science,” he said. “Canadians are people who understand the value of science and knowledge as a foundation for the future of our country.”
Critics from both the media and within politics wasted no time in attacking the speech, which they criticized for its overreach and insensitivity.
Advertisement

“Those who read and write horoscopes would be entitled to take offence,” said reporter Aaron Wherry in CBC News. “[And] however strongly one feels about the science of evolution, religious belief might generally be considered sacrosanct, or at least a topic that the appointed occupant of Rideau Hall should avoid commenting on.”
Alise Mills, a political strategist for the Conservative Party, said Payette’s speech inappropriately ventured into politics, and that it was mean spirited. “I definitely agree science is key but I think there is a better way to do that without making fun of other people,” she said.
Conservative leader Andrew Scheer blasted into the Prime Minister for his support of the speech. “It is extremely disappointing that the prime minister will not support Indigenous peoples, Muslims, Jews, Sikhs, Christians and other faith groups who believe there is truth in their religion,” he said in a statement posted to Facebook. “Respect for diversity includes respect for the diversity of religious beliefs, and Justin Trudeau has offended millions of Canadians with his comments‎.”
Advertisement

In his condemnation, Scheer is obviously reading way too much in Payette’s speech, but this episode shows how difficult it is to advocate for science and “the truth” (in Trudeau’s words) without impinging on people’s personal beliefs. Payette’s tone may have been harsh, but in this bewildering era of anti-science, her words were a breath of fresh air.
[CBC News]


Why do some therapies work wonders on some patients, but seem to have virtually no effect on others? Two fascinating new studies in Science shed light on one potential contributing factor in treatment outcome for cancer patients: The trillions of microrganisms that live in our guts.
The makeup of a person’s microbiome, the two studies found, may play a significant role in whether cancer immunotherapy is effective. A diverse microbiome populated with lots of good gut bacteria can help maximize the effectiveness of immunotherapy treatments, one paper found. Meanwhile, the other found that antibiotics which deplete the body of its microbial diversity seem to make treatment less effective.
Advertisement

The two new studies add to a growing body of evidence that suggests gut bacteria plays an important role in disease. In one intriguing study published earlier this year, researchers traced the roots of a brain disorder that had long stumped scientists to a particular type of gut bacteria. Other studies have linked gut bacteria to everything from athleticism to anxiety, although some of those results are sometimes controversial.
Recently, several other studies have shed light on just how important having the right cocktail of gut microbes may be in treating cancer in particular. Another study published this week found that the presences of certain gut bacteria could cause some chemotherapy treatments to become toxic to patients with colorectal cancer.
“Many studies across the field of microbiome research have clearly established that our gut microbes can dictate how our immune system functions throughout our body,” Justin Sonnenburg, a Stanford microbiologist not affiliated with the two new Science studies, told Gizmodo. “This gut microbiome-immune connection means that changing the gut microbiome, whether via diet, probiotics, antibiotics, fecal transplant, or using some other means, has the potential to influence diverse processes, such as autoimmune disease, response to infections, and effectiveness of immunotherapy.”
One of this week’s Science studies looked specifically at two bacteria that seem to bolster the efficacy of an immunotherapy drug for metastatic melanomas that targets a checkpoint protein on immune cells known as PD-1. Researchers  collected oral, gut, and fecal microbiome samples before and after therapy in cancer patients. They then divided the study group into patients that had responded to therapy, and those that had not, genetically sequencing the microbiome of patients in each group to look for commonalities. Two particular bacteria, faecalibacterium and clostridiales, seemed to account for the difference in the number of cancer-attacking T-cells that each patient group had. In a second part of the study, when researchers gave fecal matter transplants from patients that responded well to mice with microbe-free guts, they also responded positively to treatment.
The second study also looked at the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitor immunotherapy, but in patients with kidney and lung cancer. It found patients who had recently undergone a course of antibiotics had poorer survival rates. Those antibiotics appeared to be linked to a depletion of a bacterium called Akkermansia muciniphila in the microbiome. Again, researchers implanted the bacteria into germ-free mice and found it increased their immune response during treatment.
The two studies point to a potentially powerful method for improving the outcome of cancer treatment: Examining patient microbiomes to make sure they have the necessary flora for treatment to work.
Advertisement

It also points to a need for more research to better understand the connections between our gut health and the rest of our health.
“What is urgently important,” said Sonnenburg, “is to conduct detailed study of these connections in humans so that we can begin to harness this newly appreciated potential for improved human health.”
[Science]


New observations show there’s at least one, but possibly three rings, of cold dust around our nearest star, Proxima Centauri. That could indicate the presence of more planets, according to new research.
It would be incredible if astronomers could just look at the sky with infinite resolution telescopes and see precisely what’s going on—but they can’t, even for the closest stars. Instead, they have to take observations from lots of different instruments in lots of different wavelengths of light to piece together an entire picture. After new observations of Proxima Centauri with the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array radio telescope in Chile, there are hints that the story is much richer than last year’s already incredible Proxima announcement of a nearby exoplanet in a habitable zone.
In what’s being hailed as one of the biggest astronomical discoveries of the century, scientists…
“This cold dust is telling us there could be a planetary system with asteroid belts,” Guillem Anglada-Escudé, one of the paper’s authors from Queen Mary University of London, told Gizmodo. “There’s very rich history and lots of things to discover.”
ALMA, the telescope used to make the discovery, is probably the best telescope of its kind right now that observes far infrared and high frequency microwave light. This comparatively short observation revealed what appeared to be a disk of cold debris around the star. This could mean the presence of other planets that stop more planets from forming, the way Jupiter prevents our solar system’s asteroid belt from coalescing into a planet. There could even be an elaborate planetary system, according to the paper submitted to The Astrophysical Journal Letters.
Advertisement

You also might wonder why they can’t just spot a planet directly. Dust has a much higher surface area than single planets so it’s easier to spot, explained Anglada-Escudé.
Anglada-Escudé himself worked on last year’s discovery of Proxima Centauri b, and he told me that researchers are still hard at work trying to understand what’s orbiting Proxima. While it’s a preliminary result, he said there’s some variability in visible light bands that “could be caused by the star, but there seems to be evidence of another planet.” [Coincidentally, Anglada-Escudé shares a name with the paper’s first author, Guillem Anglada. This caused confusion during our interview.]
Unfortunately, this ALMA run wasn’t enough to create the incredible images you may have seen of dust disks around other stars. That means scientists don’t know for certain whether there’s a planet or how many rings there are.
“This time we could only get the first snapshot,” said Anglada-Escudé. “We want to get more ALMA time to get higher resolution images of these dust rings and see what they really are.”
[ApJL via ESO]


While conducting an analysis of woolly mammoth DNA, European researchers noticed something a little strange. A disproportionate number of male mammoths were found preserved in traps, such as holes and bogs. The explanation, say the researchers, can be be tied to the behavior of their distant relatives—the modern elephant.
Imagine the scene: It’s about 12,000 years ago during the last Ice Age and a lone woolly mammoth is venturing across a frozen lake. Its finely-tuned ears hears  a crack. And then another. The mammoth picks up the pace in hopes of reaching the shore—but it’s too late. The ice collapses under the weight of the massive beast, and it plunges through into the frigid water below. It frantically tries to get out but it’s no use; the mammoth drowns after just a few minutes of struggle.
Advertisement

Chances are, this woolly mammoth was male, according to new research published yesterday in Current Biology.
In the course of analyzing mammoth DNA, Swedish Museum of Natural History researchers noticed an odd gender skew. Of the 98 woolly mammoth genomes studied, nearly 70 percent belonged to males. Since the ratio of males to females was likely balanced a birth, the scientists had to consider other explanations, namely those involving the way these mammoths were preserved after death.
The last woolly mammoth to grace this good Earth died around 1,650 years ago on Wrangel Island. The relatively recent demise of this species, plus their typically well-preserved frozen remains, means scientists have lots of DNA to work with. But as is typical of paleontological findings, there’s almost always a selectional effect in play in regards to which remains are discovered and subsequently analyzed.
“Most bones, tusks, and teeth from mammoths and other Ice Age animals haven’t survived,” said study co-author Love Dalén in a statement. “It is highly likely that the remains that are found in Siberia these days have been preserved because they have been buried, and thus protected from weathering. The new findings imply that male mammoths more often died in a way that meant their remains were buried, perhaps by falling through lake ice in winter or getting stuck in bogs.”
But why should this be the case? Why did more males fall into traps than females?
The explanation, according to the new study, is that inexperienced males travelled alone, and they often got themselves killed by falling into traps that made preservation more likely.
This theory makes a lot of sense when you consider modern elephants—a highly matriarchal species. Modern elephants typically consist of herds of females and young elephants, with young elephants led by an experienced adult female. Males, on the other hand, tend to live alone or among other bachelors, and engage in more risk-taking behavior.
Advertisement

“Without the benefit of living in a herd led by an experienced female, male mammoths may have had a higher risk of dying in natural traps such as bogs, crevices, and lakes,” said Dalén.
This study shows that woolly mammoths were startlingly similar to modern elephants in terms of their behavior, and that fossil remains can tell us a lot about the social and behavioral aspects of extinct species.
[Current Biology]


Our Sun is powered by a fundamental phenomenon whereby atoms combine to unleash tremendous amounts of energy. But atoms might not be the only things that participate in this explosive reaction.
Researchers at the Large Hadron Collider’s LHCb experiment recently discovered a new particle whose constituent parts required lots of energy to bind together. But another team found that a fusion reaction could exist between a pair of quarks to produce this particle, and others, releasing energy. They have some ideas for how to look for such a reaction—but no, you won’t see quark bombs anytime soon.
Advertisement

“The very short lifetimes of the heavy bottom and charm quarks preclude any practical applications of such reactions,” the researchers write in the study published yesterday in Nature.
As you may remember from physics class, there are six kinds of quarks—the up and the down that make up pretty much everything you can see and then four other much rarer and much heavier ones. At the crux of this new research is a recently discovered arrangement of quarks called the Ξcc++ particle, also known as the “doubly charged, doubly charmed xi.”
This doubly charged, doubly charmed xi has an up quark and two of the heavy charm quarks. It takes a comparatively large amount of energy to bind these charm quarks together, after which leftover energy is released. That released energy would be about on par with that from the nuclear reactions that produce our Sun’s energy. It’s a relatively small amount in the individual reactions—less than the amount of energy required to transmit a single bit of data—but a lot given that it’s occurring in a subatomic particle.
Fusion reactions based on the heavier bottom quark—that is, if the resultant particle actually exists—could release ten times more energy than this xi particle, write the authors. But it would be difficult to produce this kind of reaction. The bottom-containing particles we know about only stick around for a tiny fraction of a second, traveling somewhere between two and 22 millimeters in CERN’s LHCb experiment. Then, they lose energy and turn into other particles like a meteor breaking up in Earth’s atmosphere.
It might be possible to study these quark fusion reactions by colliding heavy atoms, like the beams of lead (stripped of their electrons) sometimes collided at the LHC, the authors write.
There are other exciting implications aside from whatever crazy sci-fi dream “quark fusion” might elicit. The high binding energy means maybe there are exotic atoms that contain charm or bottom quarks instead of up just and down quarks, writes Gerald A. Miller, a University of Washington-Seattle physicist, in Nature News & Views. Or maybe there’s some explanation for the true identity of dark matter tied up somewhere in there.
Advertisement

Who knows. This is physics. Weird things happen all over the universe—including here on Earth.
[Nature]


Should all go according to plan, NASA will launch its next Martian rover in July 2020. The robotic probe is still under construction, but early signs are that the next-gen rover will be equipped with an impressive assortment of high-tech gadgets.
The rover is currently under construction at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, and doesn’t have a name yet aside from “Mars 2020.” Like its predecessors, the future rover will scour the Red Planet for signs of previous habitability, and conduct scientific analyses of Mars’ geology, atmosphere, and other natural phenomena. But unlike those rovers that came before it, this one has a few more tricks up its metallic sleeve.
Advertisement

As NASA announced earlier this week, the probe will be equipped with no less than 23 different cameras. That’s 13 more than Spirit and Opportunity, and six more than Curiosity. Of its 23 cameras, nine will be dedicated to engineering tasks, seven to science, and another seven for tracking the probe’s entry, descent, and landing. These “eyes” will allow the probe to create sweeping panoramas, uncover obstacles, and study Mars in exquisite detail. Importantly, these cameras will work in tandem with the many scientific instruments onboard.
During its descent,  cameras will snap photos of the parachute unfurling and as it slowly drifts down onto the planet’s red-stained surface. Once it’s out-and-about, an internal camera will peer closely at rock samples. When it’s done playing lab technician, the robot will “cache” the samples and deposit them onto the rocky surface for a future mission to collect (yes, this robot is going to be a litterbug).
The cameras will also provide more color and 3D imaging than previous missions. Whereas Curiosity had the Mastcam, the 2020 version will feature the Mastcam-z, where the “z” stands for “zoom.” The cameras will also be able to support more stereoscopic images, which are good for scanning geological features, assessing distance, and hunting for the next exploration site from far away.
The Navcams and Hazcams on the previous rovers, used for navigating and avoiding hazards, produced 1-megapixel digital images in black and white. The 2020 versions of these cameras will acquire high-rez 20-megapixel images in full color (hallelujah!). These cameras will also be able to reduce motion blurs, which means the robot will be able to snap images while zipping across the Martian surface. And because the lenses will be wider, the 2020 rover will be able to capture a broader view of the landscape.
“Our previous Navcams would snap multiple pictures and stitch them together,” said JPL’s Colin McKinney in an agency release. “With the wider field of view, we get the same perspective in one shot.”
Advertisement

Now, you might be thinking that full color, 3D-images filmed in high-resolution are not a big deal, but it is a big deal for a robot located 34 million miles away. With all these new gadgets comes troves of data, which then have to be beamed back towards Earth. This added equipment represents a frustrating limiting factor.
To address this, the cameras onboard the 2020 rover will compress the data (which Curiosity does as well), but another solution will be to use orbiting spacecraft as data relays. This idea was first tested during the Spirit and Opportunity rover missions, where NASA used its Mars Odyssey orbiter as an interplanetary relay station. Who says we’re not living in the future?
“We were expecting to do that mission on just tens of megabits each Mars day, or sol,” said mission scientist Justin Maki. “When we got that first Odyssey overflight, and we had about 100 megabits per sol, we realized it was a whole new ballgame.” By “sol,” Maki is referring to a single Martian day, which is 24 hours and 39 minutes long. For the 2020 mission, NASA is planning to use spacecraft already in Martian orbit, including the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, MAVEN, and the ESA’s Trace Gas Orbiter.
And that’s just the cameras. Other proposed scientific instruments include an X-ray fluorescence spectrometer to examine Martian surface materials, a radar imager, a microphone, an ultraviolet spectrometer, and even a Mars Helicopter Scout (HMS)—a two pound solar powered drone that would buzz above the rover, helping it to select future exploration targets.
In addition, the new rover will feature wheels that are more durable (Curiosity’s are in bad shape), have better traction, and have a performance-maximizing shape. The 2020 rover will also try to produce oxygen from Mars’ carbon-dioxide atmosphere, which could establish an important precedent for the Red Planet’s first colonists.
Advertisement

As to where the rover will land, that’s still not known. NASA has released a shortlist of landing sites, including Northeast Syrtis (an area once warmed by volcanic activity), the Jezero Crater (the remnant of a Martian lake), and Columbia Hills, which NASA’s Spirit lander explored during the early-to-mid 2000s.
Regardless of the site chosen, the next mission to Mars is going to be absolutely brilliant.
[NASA]


In the US, so far 29 states and DC have legalized medical marijuana, as modern research has suggested that weed can help treat conditions like chronic pain and the side effects of chemotherapy. Some companies, though, are abusing the growing acceptance of weed for medicinal purposes. On Wednesday, the FDA reported that it has sent warning letters to four companies claiming that marijuana-based products can treat or cure cancer.
Between them, the four companies— Greenroads Health, Natural Alchemist, That’s Natural!, and Stanley Brothers Social Enterprises—sold more than 25 products claiming to treat cancer and other serious diseases. The products in question contained cannabidiol, a compound in  marijuana that has not been approved by the FDA for any medical use. You can get CBD in a variety of forms, including in oil drops, capsules, syrups, teas and creams. One product from That’s Natural!, for example, claimed that cannabidiol “makes cancer cells commit ‘suicide’ without killing other cells.” Another product from Greenroads Health claimed that “CBD [has] anti-proliferative properties that inhibit cell division and growth in certain types of cancer, not allowing the tumor to grow” and could treat “asthma, Alzheimer’s disease, arthritis, autism, bipolar disorder and various types of cancer.” And in a testimonial for Natural Alchemist, one customer claimed CBD had not only helped cure their arthritis, but also treat traumatic brain injuries in military friends of their son.
Advertisement

In its letters, the FDA notes that companies not only made these claims on their websites, but across social media. The FDA noted that the cannabis claims are part of a larger  uptick in unapproved products claiming to treat cancer. When bogus health claims make their way onto social media, they can be especially damaging, not only spreading false information but steering people away from treatments that might actually work. Earlier this week, a story from BuzzFeed noted how false health advice spreads on the social network Pinterest, with claims that, for instance, “vitamin B17” could be a “cancer treatment” getting saved to more than 16,000 boards. Yikes.
“There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers,” said FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb in a statement. “When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could extend lives.”
While some medications containing synthetic THC (another cannabis compound) are FDA-approved, medical use of marijuana is still controversial and, at least at the federal level, illegal. The truth is, because of marijuana’s legal status, there haven’t been a whole lot of large, long-term studies tracking the side effects and efficacy of cannabidiol for medical use, though early research has been promising. Lack of research is one reason the agency has so far steered clear of greenlighting products containing cannabidiol for medical use.
So if you see a weed lollipop claiming it can cure whatever ails you, chances are it’s probably little-more than a candy-coated lie.
[FDA]


All of the orangutans in the world would probably only fit into a college football stadium. Today, scientists are announcing that just one of the sections of that stadium is actually an entirely different species. And it’s already in danger.
The international team identified Pongo tapanuliensis based on skull shape and genetic data from an isolated population of 800 orangutans in the Sumatran Batang Toru ecosystem. This number was almost certainly much larger in the past. The scientists had few samples for their research, but the robust analysis convinced them of the differences in this tiny group.
Advertisement

“We realized that these guys were special,” study author Michael Krützen from the University of Zürich told Gizmodo.
Hints to a new orangutan species began popping up in genetic data a few years ago, explained Krützen. P. tapanuliensis has genetic markers in its mitochondrial DNA, a special set of DNA passed only from mothers to children, that looked more similar to the Bornean orangutans’ than the nearby Sumatran ones. The team also acquired a P. tapanuliensis skull, whose shape seemed to differ substantially from the skulls of the other species.
A genetic analysis revealed that the new species likely split from the rest of the Sumatran population around 3.4 million years ago. They intermingled with the other Sumatran species occasionally, but this seemed to stop completely between 10 and 20,000 years ago. Female orangutans typically stay put, so any genetic material flowing between the populations would have to come from intruding males.
Erin Vogel, an anthropology professor at Rutgers not involved in the study, found the results exciting. “The new model presented here reveals a deep evolutionary split between the Batang Toru population and other extant [i.e. opposite of extinct] populations,” she told Gizmodo in an email. She noted that so long as scientists are calling Sumatran and Bornean orangutans different species, “then indeed this population should be considered a different species.”
But the study has its limitations. The scientists identified P. tapanuliensis based on only one physical specimen and two individual genomes, according to the paper published today in Current Biology. The skull also fell within the possible ranges of skull sizes for the other populations, notes Vogel. And it’s important to note that the species probably could interbreed. Many scientists don’t consider interbreeding important when it comes to new species—it’s not about if they can, but whether they actually would in the wild.
Others didn’t find the scant number of specimens a problem for identifying the species. “I used to work in a museum and sometimes you have very limited material available,” especially in the case of fossils, said anthropology professor Vincent Nijman from Oxford Brookes University in the United Kingdom, who also wasn’t involved in the study.
Advertisement

If the greater scientific community accepts P. tapanuliensis as a new species, then it would be an incredibly rare group—800 people would only be enough to fit into a party at a large ballroom or warehouse. That means there’s conservation work to do. Nijman thought this work was the responsibility of Indonesian government, and pointed out that the population is almost certainly in decline.
Krützen agreed that there was impending conservation work. “There’s much pressure on this habitat,” he said. “There’s mining, a hydroelectric dam [proposal] that would encroach on the habitat of these animals. People hunt orangutans in that area. It wasn’t our motivation, but now we hope this research will trigger more awareness of this unique isolated population.”
[Current Biology]



Late last week, an Australian couple stumbled upon a freaky scene in which thousands of Portuguese man o’ wars, also known as bluebottles, had washed up on the rocks just south of Bateman’s Bay in New South Wales. Disturbingly, it’s a sight we’re going to have to get used to in our warming world.
Brett Wallensky and his partner Claudia spotted the scene while walking along Barlings beach on Friday October 27, having spotted a few in the water earlier in the day while kayaking and observing humpback whales. The couple couldn’t get over the striking blue color of the conglomeration, describing the scene as “alien.”
Advertisement

“There must have been thousands of them beached and they were all alive and wriggling,” said Wallensky in a StoryTrender post. “It was the stuff nightmares are made of. It was just horrible to look at them wriggling around and trying to sting you. If you fell in there and got that many stings all over you I can’t imagine you would survive.”
Indeed, these venomous Portuguese man o’ wars (Physalia utriculus) can be a huge annoyance, stinging hundreds of people each day around the world. Stings from these animals are very painful, but generally not life threatening. At least, not when you’re stung by just one. Falling into a mass like this would be...bad.
“I would be awed by a sight like this! It’s not often that you get to see so many of these incredible animals up close. But don’t get too close!,” Christie Wilcox, a marine biologist at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, told Gizmodo. “Bluebottles are not true jellyfish, and instead are a colonial organism in the same phylum. So they are related to jellyfish, and similarly possess a potent sting. Their stinging cells can remain active for weeks after beaching, so even if the animals are dead, they can still pack a whollop!”
Wilcox saidthat there have been a few deaths from a related species in the Atlantic; the ones in Australia are of the smaller, less venomous Indo-Pacific variety.
“Severe cases always involve meters of stinging tentacle. Our most recent research...has found that stings from bluebottles and their relatives are best treated by rinsing with vinegar and then applying heat (45C/113F for 45 min or longer),” said Wilcox. “Seawater rinsing is not a good substitute for vinegar because it doesn’t inactivate the stingers, so you can actually make the injury worse. So if you have tentacles on you and don’t have vinegar, it’s best to carefully pluck them off. If you happen to have it, the most effective rinse and treatment are the Sting No More products.”
Stings from a Portuguese man o’ war are as common as they are dangerous, yet there’s a lack of…
As for the mass beaching itself, Wilcox says this happens every so often in certain areas when conditions are right. These sea creatures, with their vivid blue sails, can be pushed around by strong winds, and strong onshore winds can shove them into the shallows.
Advertisement

“I don’t think there’s anything particularly special about this mass stranding of bluebottles,” Wilcox told Gizmodo. “It’s a bit hard to tell, but it looks like the location happens to be a place where debris pushed ashore clumps together naturally (like how some places on a beach get mats of seaweed while others are clear).”
That said, Portuguese man o’ wars, like jellyfish, are poised to be the greatest beneficiaries of climate change, so scenes like this could start to happen with increased frequency. As Wilcox said, this happens when “conditions are right.” In a Popular Science post from last year, marine biologist Lisa-ann Gershin explained it like this:
...climate warming...amps up jellyfish in unbelievable ways. Fractions of degree changes above normal water temperatures amp up their metabolism, they eat more and breed more and live longer — it’s astounding what a little bit of warming can do for jellyfish. Trawling gives them new room for their polyps to settle, and while acidification or chemical pollution doesn’t hurt jellyfish, it hurts everything else like fish and shellfish that struggle with environmental change.
So for those of you who like to take long walks on the beach, you’re going to have to a bit more careful.
[Sydney Morning Herald, StoryTrender]


Here’s the thing about NASA’s rocket scientists: They’re smart. And maybe a little weird. When you get literal rocket scientists to channel their energy into something silly like a pumpkin carving contest, the results are bound to be incredible. Seriously:

Two groups at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory has been running their pumpkin carving contest since 2011 (which we cover pretty much every year). Participants use power tools and machines to make pumpkins spin, expand, and even fly. The lone rule is that they have only an hour to carve the pumpkin—which they must use, somehow. Preparation is allowed beforehand.
Advertisement

JPL offers some tips for how to carve a pumpkin like they do, like including the guts, adding paint, wiring with lights, and using an Arduino to control the movement. You can see a full list of the participants on the JPL Flickr here.
I’ve reached out to JPL to see which pumpkin actually won the contest and will update the post when I hear back.
[JPL]
Update 4:20PM EST: A NASA spokesperson passed along the following list of winners:
Spacecraft Mechanical Engineering group:
First Place: Europa Clipper Pirate ShipSecond Place: The Harvest (Ghostbusters Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man)Third Place: Operation Frank-O-Drop / Pumpkin Parachute
Payload and Small Spacecraft Mechanical Engineering Section:First Place: Group 355M – Class “H” Mission (Hamster Wheel Pumpkin)Second Place: Group 355S – Super Nova Death of a StarThird Place: Group 355L – Starshade Pumpkin Launch Restraint and Unfurling System (Plus)


Welcome to WHAT NOW, a morning round-up of the news/fresh horrors that await you today.
Sam Clovis is many things: a failed politician, a former talk radio host who’s compared being gay to child molestation, and an ex-campaign aide to Donald Trump who now finds himself embroiled in the Russia investigation. But Clovis has now added another notch to his belt: a ready admission that he’s definitely not a scientist—which is a bit of a problem since Trump has nominated him to be...the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief scientist.
Advertisement

In an October 17 letter obtained by The Washington Post, Clovis repeatedly made clear that he’s extraordinarily unqualified for the job he’s been nominated for. Clovis was responding to questions about his experience posed by the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee’s top Democrat, Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow.
The questionnaire went like this, per the newspaper:
“Please list all graduate level courses you have taken in natural science,” the second of 10 questions requested.
“None,” Clovis replied.
“Please list all membership and leadership roles you have held within any agricultural scientific, agricultural education, or agricultural economic organizations,” the third question read.
“None,” Clovis replied.
“Please describe any awards, designations, or academic recognition you have received specifically related to agricultural science,” the fourth question read.
“None,” Clovis replied.
Very nicely done! May we all someday know the bloated hubris of Sam Clovis in our own lives.
As the Post points out, the role  has typically been held by individuals with advanced degrees in science or medicine, and recent Congressional legislation specified that the appointee be chosen “from among distinguished scientists with specialized training.”
This latest development comes after a group of more than 3,000 top scientists sent a letter protesting Clovis’ nomination to Stabenow and Republican committee chairman  Pat Roberts of Kansas, highlighting Clovis’ history of “denial of the scientific consensus on climate change and ill-conceived and offensive racial comments” and a professional background “completely devoid of relevant scientific experience.”
UPDATE, 11:16 a.m. ET: Clovis has withdrawn from consideration for the undersecretary position, writing in a letter to the president that the “political climate inside Washington has made it impossible for me to receive balanced and fair consideration for this position.”

WHAT ELSE?

For more news and opinions that get under your skin, follow Splinter on Facebook.


Though they were constructed nearly 5,000 years ago, the Great Pyramids of Egypt are still packed with secrets. Using a technique that leverages the power of cosmic rays, scientists have confirmed the presence of a large empty space within Khufu’s pyramid—a void that’s signaling the presence of a possible hidden chamber.
It’s tempting to think that all the great archaeological discoveries from ancient Egypt have already been made, but new research published today in Nature shows there’s still plenty for us to uncover.

An investigation into the internal structure of Khufu’s pyramid—the largest pyramid in Giza—has revealed the presence of a large and inaccessible “void” within the structure. The researchers who led the study, Mehdi Tayoubi from the HIP Institute in France and Kunihiro Morishima from Nagoya University in Japan, won’t go so far as to say the cavity is a hidden chamber, but they’re reasonably convinced the internal feature is a deliberate architectural feature of the pyramid. As to what’s inside is anyone’s guess, but the presence of artifacts and funeral items are not out of the question, according to Egyptologists.
The discovery was made possible through the unlikely intersection of archaeology and particle physics. By making meticulous measurements of muons—elementary particles that rain down on Earth from deep space and are capable of traveling through solid objects—researchers were able to characterize the densities within the pyramid, revealing the presence of an empty space that measures at least 100 feet (30 meters) in length.
That Khufu’s pyramid may still hold a chamber waiting to be found is within the realm of possibility.
Advertisement

This massive structure was built on the Giza Plateau during the Egyptian Fourth Dynasty (c. 2613 to 2494 BC) by the Pharaoh Khufu (sometimes referred to as Cheops), who reigned from 2509 to 2483 BC. The pyramid initially measured 481 feet (146 meters) in height, and was the tallest structure in the world for more than 3,800 years.
There are three known rooms inside the monument: the King’s Chamber, the Queen’s Chamber, and an unfinished room cut into the bedrock upon which the pyramid was built. There’s also the Grand Gallery, a sloped hallway-like structure measuring 28 feet (8.6 meters) high, 153 feet (46.7 meters) long, and about 6 feet (2 meters) wide.  The original entrance leading to these internal structures, known as the “descending corridor,” is located at the North Face, but today, tourists are allowed to enter the pyramid through a tunnel attributed to Caliph al-Ma’mun (around AD 820).
Archaeologists don’t have the original blueprints to Khufu’s pyramid, and there’s no consensus on how the structure was created or what hidden features may still lie inside. The only known documents, written on papyri, only describe the logistics of the construction, such as how the stones were transported (fun fact: the Great Pyramid contains an estimated 2.3 million blocks).
Detecting hidden chambers or corridors is not easy for archaeologists, who mustn’t damage ancient structures in any way. Egypt’s Supreme Council of Antiquities is very strict about what can and cannot be done to these historic monuments, requiring scientists to come up with innovative new ways of exploring the pyramids.
Back in the 1960s, archaeologist Luis Alvarez came up with the idea of using muons—a type of elementary particle that’s capable of penetrating dense materials—to peer inside Khafre’s pyramid (the second largest of the Giza Pyramids). Unfortunately, his team lacked the technological and scientific know-how to pull it off, but Alvarez’s idea has proven its worth. Today, the technique, known as muography, has been used by archaeologists to analyze ancient Roman structures and Mexican pyramids, and by geologists to explore features such as volcanoes. Muography has also been used to assess damage at the beleaguered Fukushima nuclear power plant, and by the US military  to find hidden caves and tunnels in Afghanistan.
In terms of the physics involved, muon particles originate from the interactions of cosmic rays with the atoms in the upper atmosphere. They pepper the Earth at nearly the speed of light (they’re harmless to humans and other animal life), and researchers can visualize the presence and trajectory of these particles using various muon detection schemes. Muons are only partially absorbed by solid objects, and can thus penetrate stone. But by mapping the positions and trajectories if these particles, researchers can visualize the internal composition of solid structures—revealing things such as stone formations or open-air cavities.
“Similar to X-rays which can penetrate the body and allow bone imaging, these elementary particles can keep a quasi-linear trajectory while going through hundreds of meters of stone before decaying or being absorbed,” write the researchers in the new study.
Advertisement

Last year, the ScanPyramids project—the same team of researchers involved in this latest discovery—used muography and infrared thermography (which measures temperature) to uncover a corridor directly above the Great Pyramid’s original entrance. Using the same idea, the researchers have now discovered the large void located directly above the Grand Gallery.
To validate the presence of the void, the researchers recruited specialists from three different institutions. Each team employed their own unique muon detection technique, and stationed their scanners both within and outside the pyramid.
Researchers from Nagoya University used nuclear emulsion films to track the muons in three dimensions, a team from France’s Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) used scintillator hodoscopes (scintillating materials emit light when particles pass through it), and researchers from KEK High Energy Accelerator Research Organization did it using gas-based detectors. Because only one percent of muons reach the detectors, data must be meticulously accumulated over the course of several months (the exposures began in December 2015).
All three teams reached the same conclusion—there’s a large, open cavity directly above the Great Gallery, and it’s about the same size and shape. The void is about 70 feet (21 meters) above ground level, and is at least 100 feet (30 meters) long, but the researchers aren’t sure of its inclination.
So what is it?
During a press conference held yesterday, the researchers stubbornly refused to speculate. “We’re avoiding the word ‘chamber,’” said Mehdi Tayoubi. “We know that it’s a big void, but we’re not calling it a chamber.” The ScanPyramids scientists admitted they’re not experts in this area, and that specialists in Egyptian architecture should use this discovery as an invitation to join in and help explain the mysterious cavity.
Advertisement

“There are still many architectural hypotheses to consider; in particular, the big void could be made of one or several adjacent structures, and it could be inclined or horizontal,” write the researchers in the study. “The detailed structure of the void should be further studied...more interdisciplinary collaborations [will be required to help understand] the pyramid and its construction process.”
Importantly, the researchers were able to rule out “non-void” possibilities. Because small gaps or crevices cannot be detected using the muon technique (it can only detect wide open spaces), there’s virtually no way the space is a “swiss cheese” of stone, as some scientists have speculated. It’s also unlikely, the researchers say, that it’s just a sign of interior wear-and-tear, some kind of collapse or construction flaw in the design, or the juxtaposition of small and large stones. Importantly, the area in question produced the same muon data patterns as scans made of the Grand Gallery—a known “void” within the structure.
Advertisement

Kathlyn M. Cooney, an Associate Professor of Ancient Egyptian Art & Architecture at the University of California Los Angeles, says it’s too early to speculate about the true nature of the void, but a hidden chamber is not an impossibility. Cooney, who wasn’t involved in the new study, said Khufu and his father Sneferu, unlike their Third Dynasty predecessors, began to “float” chambers within their pyramids.
“To construct these internal structures they had to build from the bottom up,” she told Gizmodo, “They had to create the chambers and passages as they built upwards.” To make these interior structures inaccessible (which seems to be the intent), Cooney says the ancient Egyptians refrained from making adjoining corridors, and case the pyramid from the outside to prevent access. “It was brilliant,” she said, “but it was a short-lived phenomenon, and it didn’t happen very often after these two kings.”
Like the ScanPyramids archaeologists, Cooney doesn’t know what’s inside the void, but she said “it would be extraordinary to find potential materials [such as] funerary items and treasures that are almost 5,000 years old.”
The obvious question at this stage is to ask what archaeologists plan on doing to find out more about this mysterious structure. During the press conference, the researchers said they’d like to perform more long term muon scans of the structure, and from different positions. This should allow them to create a more accurate picture of the space, and possibly find more hidden features.
Advertisement

More radically, INRIA researcher Jean-Baptiste Mouret, a member of the ScanPyramids team, is currently designing an innovative robot that will be capable of squirming through a very small hole, and possibly fly like an aerial drone once it’s within the cavity (welcome to archaeology in the 21st century).
Unfortunately, the void is located in a very difficult place to access, and some drilling may be required. This prospect could be minimized should the researchers discover hidden adjoining corridors. Take the recently discovered corridor above the original entrance; this passageway could contain a tunnel all the way to the void in a mirror image of the structures below it.
Advertisement

“If an exploration has to be imagined, a good starting place would be from the suspected corridor at the North Face,” explained the researchers at yesterday’s presser. “But for the moment there is no discussion about that—this is not our responsibility. But because we are engineers, and because we love innovation, we asked Jean-Baptiste to join our team...and we’re currently in the thinking and design process.”
But as Cooney explained to Gizmodo, the researchers will still have to get past the Egyptian antiquities ministry.
“When you claim something like this, and even when you’ve got great science behind you, the Egyptians still have control over their national patrimony,” she said. “Ultimately, it’ll be up to them as to how they’ll want [the pyramid] investigated and analyzed as the archaeologists move forward.” She also says that outside researchers (which is the case here) will have to work with an Egyptian team, and work within the convoluted Egyptian political process.
Lastly, Cooney made a plea to both the press and the public to remain patient.
“We need to stop rushing archaeological discoveries that don’t need to be rushed and push scientists to make declarations about discoveries that aren’t yet proven,” she told Gizmodo, “It’s important to remember the old adage, ‘archaeology is destructive,’ and realize that the next generation will be able to do it better.”
[Nature]


In the course of researching diseases like the Ebola virus, more than 200 labs in the United States work with hazardous pathogens. But oversight of those labs is seriously lagging, with safety lapses occurring at some of them, according to a new report from the US Government Accountability Office.
The Federal Select Agent Program, which is run by the Centers for Disease Control and the Department of Agriculture, regulates how high-containment labs across government, industry, and academia handle 66 different dangerous organisms and toxins, including anthrax, ebola and botulism. But those labs and the procedures for overseeing them have been under scrutiny after a string of incidents over the past few years. In 2014, 84 CDC employees were accidentally exposed to live samples of anthrax after it was inadvertently shipped between labs. That same year, six forgotten vials of decades old smallpox virus were discovered packed in a cardboard box at the National Institutes of Health.
Yikes.
In response to those and other incidents, Congress asked the GAO to evaluate federal procedures for managing dangerous pathogens and the White House announced new measures for improving biosecurity.
Advertisement

That report, released fittingly on Halloween, found that the oversight program still has some issues to address.
“Safety lapses continue to occur at some of the 276 laboratories in the United States that conduct research on select agents—such as Ebola virus or anthrax bacteria—that may cause serious or lethal infection in humans, animals, or plants, raising concerns about whether oversight is effective,” the report said.
For one, many of the labs overseen by the program are within the two agencies that run it, meaning that at times the CDC and USDA are essentially policing themselves. Despite an agreement that the two agencies would conduct inspections of one another’s labs in order to avoid conflicts of interest, the report notes that the USDA conducted inspections of its own labs on three occasions.
The report also found that lab inspections spend too much time focusing on things like theft prevention and not enough time on how to prevent the sorts of accidents that spurred the investigation in the first place. In 2014, for example, it was a failure to follow protocol to make sure that anthrax samples were no longer active that resulted in a live bacteria accidentally being shipped between labs. The program, the report also found, employs inspectors that are overworked and sometimes lack expertise to do their jobs.
The report recommends that, for starters, investigations target the highest risk activities that it oversees. Like, you know, maybe making sure that when there are vials of a deadly, freeze-dried virus lying around, researchers remember where they put it.


If and when the nuclear holocaust begins to bring down society as we know it, it’s not the initial blasts you should be worrying about. Carl Sagan and other scientists once hypothesized that dust blocking out the Sun could bring a nuclear winter. It probably happened before—to the dinosaurs.
A team of scientists have dug deep into the specifics of the Chicxulub impact, the one that accompanied the demise of the dinosaurs 66 million years ago. After new models based on new data, it turns out that the event could have launched an immense amount of sulfur and carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. This would have drastically changed the Earth’s climate and surely had an impact on which species survived.
Advertisement

You may have heard about the effects of the impact on climate before, but this model is based on even more data. The researchers wanted to revisit the climate change after new improvements in mathematics and better understanding of the impact angle of the asteroid and the composition of the Earth below the crater became available. Their results showed that the asteroid could have instantly tossed around 300 gigatons of sulfur and 420 gigatons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. For comparison, all of humanity dumps around 40 gigatons of carbon into the atmosphere annually.
You’re probably wondering why the planet cooled instead of warmed. All of the sulfur would have drastically reduced the amount of incoming solar radiation, like putting a black cover over the greenhouse, explained Anthony Martin, a professor in the department of environmental sciences at Emory University.
The new model predicts that “that surface temperatures were reduced by > 20°C and took over 30 years to recover following the Chicxulub impact,” according to the paper published in Geophysical Research Letters by scientists Natalia Artemieva from the Planetary Science Institute and Joanna Morgan from Imperial College, London. Such a drastic temperature drop would have had (and did have) catastrophic effects on Earth’s life, causing around three-quarters of all species to go extinct. Scientists generally agree that the bigger animals suffered most, but this new paper makes the story even worse.
“The mass extinction would have wiped out even more plants an animals than we thought before,” said Martin. He thought there was sufficient evidence to support the study’s conclusion, while pointing out that this is just a model, and no model is exactly correct. “But this is a useful model,” he said.
Does this mean anything to you today? Aside from better explaining where the dinosaurs went, no...unless there’s a nuclear war or some event that could similarly knock lots of aerosol particles into the atmosphere. Then, well, sorry.
[Geophysical Research Letters]


Giraffes are hard to miss. Scraping the sky at roughly 18 feet up, they are the tallest animals on Earth. Humans have taken notice, becoming infatuated with giraffes from the first moments of the animals’ lives, and revering their iconic, alien gangliness across the globe. But despite all this attention, our species doesn’t have a particularly good grasp of the evolutionary history of giraffes and their relatives. But now, thanks to a newly-discovered fossil of a new species of extinct, ancestral giraffe, the giraffe family tree just grew a few more limbs and came into tighter focus.
The giraffe family (Giraffidae) is an exclusive club these days. Between a maximum of four species of giraffe and the secretive okapi (and its awesome zebra pants!), this denuded branch on the mammalian side of the Tree of Life is what remains of a formerly diverse and widespread bloodline. For millions of years, giraffes and their relatives (giraffids) were found all over the Old World—and many of them were flat-out strange. The familiar, high-rise models didn’t evolve until recently, and much of giraffid prehistory is marked by expansive evolutionary experimentation.
Advertisement

For instance, Bramatherium was a thick-set Asian giraffe with four, spiny skull projections that formed an erect forehead shield, making it look like some kind of fuzzy dragon. Injanatherium was an antelope-like giraffe from the Middle East with a built-in visor of bone that jutted out over its eyes. There were also the giant, vaguely elk-like sivatheres—the most massive giraffids ever—with heavy, antler-shaped ossicones (skin and hair-covered skull protuberances found in giraffids).
Fossil records of all these bizarre species are generally spotty. With a paucity of complete skulls, for example, it’s been difficult to hash out the evolutionary relationships between giraffids. The new species—described in a paper published today in the journal PLOS ONE—is providing a key piece of this puzzle.
The ancient giraffe, regally named Decennatherium rex (pronounced “de-sen-a-theer-ee-um recks”), was unearthed in the Cerro de los Batallones fossil site just outside of Madrid. The team of paleontologists responsible for D. rex’s discovery and identification—based at Spain’s National Museum of Natural History and the Catalan Institute of Paleontology—estimate that it lived about nine million years ago. The skeleton was uniquely, remarkably complete, and provided a great picture of what D. rex must have been like in life.
The giraffid had two pairs of ossicone “horns”; one short pair in front, above the eyes, and a second, long, curved, ridged pair that swept up and backwards. D. rex was tall enough to scratch its head on a basketball rim, and probably weighed in excess of a ton. With such a strapping frame, the beast would have looked less like a graceful sentinel of the Serengeti, and more like if that Toys ‘R’ Us mascot took up a serious powerlifting hobby.
By comparing D. rex’s remains with those of extinct and living giraffid species, the researchers were able to determine likely evolutionary relationships between giraffid groups. It appears as though the new Decennatherium species is the earliest known offshoot of a lineage containing the gigantic, “antlered” sivatheres, and another similar group, the samotheres—a different fork of the family tree from where giraffes and okapi reside. The four-horned layout that helps define this sivathere-samothere branch—two small in front, two big in back—may have gotten its start with D. rex.
Advertisement

This discovery and classification for Decennatherium reveals that the sivathere-samothere line is millions of years older than previously thought, and had existed as far north as Europe. Sivatheres and samotheres were ridiculously successful giraffids, ranging across much of Africa and Eurasia for what appears to be millions of years, with some of the largest and most spectacular species going extinct as recently as the close of the last Ice Age—and now we know how they got their start.
The rich prehistory of the giraffe family may be gone to us, but we can still appreciate what’s left of this proud, weird tribe of mammals. And we should do so quickly, since the okapi’s numbers have plummeted in recent decades and because  giraffes are now looking down the barrel of extinction. Preservation may be a tall order, but if these last holdouts go the way of the sivatheres and Decennatherium, it would mean the loss of the entire giraffe family.
Jake Buehler is a Seattle area science writer with an adoration for the Tree of Life’s weird, wild, and unsung—follow him on Twitter or at his blog.


Food webs might seem clear to you—grass grows in the sun, cows eat the grass, you eat the cow, you play on the computer. But it doesn’t always work that way in the animal kingdom.
Today’s word of the day is kleptopredation, a new way of eating that was recently discovered in a species of sea slug by  researchers in Europe. Kleptopredation’s existence shows that there’s more to predator-prey relationships than just predator-eats-prey, according to the paper published today in the journal Biology Letters.
Advertisement

The researchers collected the sea slugs, called nudibranchs, as well as some samples of jellyfish relatives called hydroids and plankton, from the water near Sicily. The experiment simply involved watching the nudibranchs make their eating decisions, choosing between hydroids that had just eaten plankton and those that hadn’t. The nudibranchs selected the recently fed hydroids more often at a rate highly unlikely to be random. And unlike you and cows, it turns out that around half the nudibranch diet comes directly from the plankton by eating  in this way, the researchers write.
“The strong behavioral response of the nudibranch to fed hydroid colonies in the prey choice experiment suggests that nudibranchs will, by preference, consume hydranths that have captured and are handling prey,” the researchers wrote.
This experiment is limited by the fact that it’s just a couple dozen trials performed in a lab and not necessarily how things happen in real life. And maybe the nudibranches were just opting for the plumper hydra. But the experiment’s results shouldn’t be that surprising. Mary Roach describes a similar eating habit in Inuit people in her book Gulp. Arctic dwellers rely on organ meat and even caribou stomach contents for certain nutrients in places where there are few fruits or vegetables available.
Ultimately, kleptopredation shows that food webs are complex pathways where energy and nutrients travel between plants and animals—far more complex than just big fish eats little fish.
[Biology Letters]
Update 1:00PM EST: James Newcomb, a biology professor at New England College not involved with the study, agreed that an animal relying on stealing food ingested by another organism was a cool concept. He felt the results were tantalizing but not yet convincing—there could be other explanations.
Advertisement

The hydroids have stingers they use to catch their own prey, for example. “An alternative hypothesis to explain why the predator (nudibranch) selectively chose hydroid polyps that had recently fed is because those polyps had expended their stinging cells to capture prey and thus could not use them on the nudibranch. This was never tested in the paper and could produce very similar results.”


The head of the Environmental Protection Agency announced today that the best scientists in the country won’t be able to advise the agency on environmental science.
Rumors of the announcement had been swirling for months after the EPA canned most of its science advisory board members. Scott Pruitt made it official on Tuesday by signing a directive that any members of EPA’s science advisory board can’t have accepted a grant from the agency. It’s an unprecedented move and yet another step for Pruitt in turning the EPA into an extension of the industries it’s supposed to regulate. The move stands in stark contrast to the EPA’s mission to “protect human health and the environment.”
Advertisement

“Never before in almost 40 years of functioning of Scientific Advisory Boards has it been deemed necessary to restrict individuals with EPA grants from serving,” Genna Reed, an analyst with the Union of Concerned Scientists, told Earther.
The agency awards more than $1 billion in grants a year to scientists at university and state and local governments across the country. The EPA’s analysis indicates that board members received $77 million in competitive grant money over the past three years, something many people would think indicates they are Good at Science.
In announcing the reasoning, Pruitt used scripture in a way I’m still trying to make sense of:
“In the Book of Joshua, there’s a story about Joshua leading the people into the promised land after Moses passed away. This is sort of the Joshua principle. As it relates to the grants and to this agency, you can choose to serve on the council or choose the grant but you can’t choose both.”
So who will lead us to the scientific promised land now that those EPA-funded scientists have been excluded? Aside from you and me (I’m assuming you aren’t an EPA-funded researcher and if you are, I’m sorry), a whole lot of folks who typically rely on private sources of funding (or as the directive likes to call them, people with “fresh perspectives”). In many cases, that includes the very industries the EPA is supposed to be regulating to safeguard human and environmental health.
“While industry certainly has a right to be heard on the science advisory boards, and always had a representative as far as I can remember, they should never dominate. There was nothing in my experience at the Agency that would have made me think we needed to enact this sort of makeover,” Christine Todd Whitman, the head of the EPA under George W. Bush and former New Jersey governor, told Earther. “[Senator John] Barrasso is wrong in saying what Pruitt was doing with advisory boards was good because it allowed more state input. This isn’t about geography, it should be about science. Lead isn’t better absorbed by someone in the West than the East — it’s just plain bad for you.”
If these people have their way, they’ll be leading us to a promised land of fringe science and air and water clogged with smog and toxic chemicals.
Pruitt announced that Michael Honeycutt, who heads Texas Commission on Environmental Quality’s toxicology division, will now lead the EPA’s Science Advisory Board. He is a scientist at least, so good job there. But his views are extremely outside the mainstream.
Advertisement

In 2012, Honeycutt told  the U.S. House Science Committee with a straight face that “some studies even suggest PM (particulate matter) makes you live longer.” This statement ignores the vast preponderance of evidence that shows otherwise. It might serve Honeycutt well to read up all about PM’s negative health impacts on the EPA’s page dedicated to them. Hell, you may want to read it before Honeycutt starts advising the EPA, which has already shown a penchant for deleting information that’s inconvenient.
“Michael Honeycutt is a concerning individual to lead the advisor board,” Reed said. “He’s worked closely with TERA [Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment] to recommend loosening of standards for Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.”
TERA is a group that collected 30 percent of its funds from for-profit sources last year and “has been paid by chemical companies for research and reports that frequently downplayed the health risks posed by their compounds” according to the New York Times. 
Advertisement

Equally worrying is Tony Cox, a private risk analyst, who will now head the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee. John Walke, an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council, told Earther that the committee was established by Congress to advise the EPA “when the agency establishes or revises national health standards for air pollution like smog or fine particle pollution.”
And true to form, Tony Cox denies smog has negative health impacts.  Here’s what he told Congress in 2015 about a proposed EPA ozone rule:
“There is no need to repeat the costly effort to obtain better public health by further reducing ozone levels when we already know from abundant historical experience that doing so does not work.”
Denying climate science is a bonkers proposition, but denying that smog is bad for you is seemingly unfathomable. But because it is 2017 and because Trump is president and Scott Pruitt heads the EPA, this is where we are.
Advertisement

“The Trump EPA is stacking the nation’s premiere science advisory bodies with industry reps and conservative state officials who are not nearly as expert as the purged scientists,” Walke said.
The rest of the advisory boards will be announced in the coming weeks. A list leaked to E&E News shows that the boards will include members from fossil fuel companies, a chemical trade group, and red state governments according an analysis from the New Republic.
Pruitt claims this is all in the service of “sound science” and “back to basics.” But there’s nothing sound or basic about installing people who shill for industry in positions that let them have a say about rules affecting said industry. While Trump’s other cabinet appointees have generally bumbled through their jobs, Pruitt has been uniquely aggressive in turning his agency into a rubber stamp for industry.
Advertisement

“The Trump EPA’s continued attack on science will likely be one of the most lasting and damaging legacies of this administration,” Senator Tom Udall (D-NM), said in a statement following the decision.
This post has been updated to include comments from Christine Todd Whitman.


Recent scientific progress has allowed us to begin decoding the significance of many different patterns of activity in the brain. Researchers have begun to understand patterns associated with disorders such as depression, in hopes of correcting it. Other research has zeroed in on how language and speech is signaled in the brain. In one often-cited experiment, researchers were even able to convert the MRI readouts of the test subjects’ brains into approximate renditions of the movie clips shown to participants.
Now new research seeks to use artificial intelligence to identify people suffering from suicidal thoughts based on brain scans alone.
Advertisement

In a paper published this week in Nature Human Behavior, researchers from Carnegie Mellon University looked at 34 participants, half of whom were experiencing suicidal thoughts. Study participants all underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), during which they were shown words related to suicide, such as “death” and “distressed,” as well as words related to positive and negative emotions. Based on the participants that had already been identified as suicidal, they were able to identify five regions of the brain and six words that helped to identify those that were suicidal. Based on that information, they were then able to train an algorithm to identify suicidal patients. Of the 34 participants, the algorithm correctly identified 15 of the 17 suicidal patients and 16 of 17 member of the control group.
In a second experiment, researchers also divided participants with suicidal thoughts into two groups: One group that had attempted suicide, and one that had not. A separate algorithm was also able to correctly categorize 16 of those 17 patients.
Why is this important? For one, it gives us insight into how the brains of healthy people and suicidal people differ. In suicidal patients, for example, the word “death” triggered a reaction in the region of the brain associated with shame.
It also may one day provide an additional tool to help diagnose and treat mental health disorders. Psychiatric illnesses are complicated, and often not all that well understood in terms of where they exist in the brain. That’s why, for example, the symptoms for disorders like depression often seem vague. A diagnosis of major depressive disorder requires a person to exhibit five of nine symptoms, but two people could wind up with the same diagnosis and have almost no symptoms in common. Understanding where in the brain those problems are occurring could one day lead to more effective means of treating them.
[Nature Human Behavior]


Using an innovative new telescope array, an international team of researchers has discovered a distant gas giant roughly the size of Jupiter around a star half the size of ours. It’s considered the largest planet in proportion to its companion star.
New research published in Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society challenges prevailing theories about planet formation and how big planets can get in systems containing small stars, such as red dwarfs. The discovery of NGTS-1b by Daniel Bayliss and Peter Wheatley from the University of Warwick’s Astronomy and Astrophysics Group represents only the third gas giant found to transit an M-dwarf star, and the largest planet in comparison to its host star. The previous biggest planets in proportion to their companion stars were Kepler-45b and HATS-6b, but this new planet is considerably larger and heavier.
Advertisement

Bayliss and Wheatley spotted the hot Jupiter using the Next-Generation Transit Survey (NGTS) instrument, a wide-field observing facility composed of several telescopes at the European Southern Observatory’s Paranal Observatory in Northern Chile. This state-of-the-art facility is operated by the Universities of Warwick, Leicester, Cambridge, Queen’s University Belfast, Observatoire de Genève, DLR Berlin, and Universidad de Chile.
“The discovery of NGTS-1b was a complete surprise to us—such massive planets were not thought to exist around such small stars,” said Bayliss in a statement. “This is the first exoplanet we have found with our new NGTS facility and we are already challenging the received wisdom of how planets form. Our challenge is to now find out how common these types of planets are in the Galaxy.”
To make the discovery, the astronomers monitored patches of night sky over several months, detecting red light from a star using special red-sensitive cameras. This M-dwarf star, NGTS-1, experiences brief and periodic dips in brightness every 2.6 days, suggesting the presence of an orbiting planet. The degree of dimming, plus measurements of the star’s “wobble” confirmed both the presence and size of the large gas giant.
Located 600 light-years away, gas giant NGTS-1b has about 20 percent less mass than Jupiter, but its companion star features a radius and mass half that of our Sun. The exoplanet—a so-called hot Jupiter— is located just 4.5 million kilometers from its host, which is a mere three percent the distance Earth is from the Sun. A year on this planet lasts just 2.5 Earth days, and the temperature is a whopping 530 degrees Celsius, or 800 kelvin.
Prior to this discovery astronomers didn’t think that a star of this diminutive size could produce a planet so large. Scientists figured that small stars are able to churn out rocky planets, but that dwarf star systems didn’t possess enough overall material to form Jupiter-sized planets. This latest discovery means pre-existing theories are flawed, and that more science needs to be done.
Advertisement

“NGTS-1b was difficult to find, despite being a monster of a planet, because its parent star is small and faint. Small stars are actually the most common in the universe, so it is possible that there are many of these giant planets waiting to [be] found,” said Wheatley. “Having worked for almost a decade to develop the NGTS telescope array, it is thrilling to see it picking out new and unexpected types of planets. I’m looking forward to seeing what other kinds of exciting new planets we can turn up.”
In terms of a theory, the researchers speculate that NGTS-1, during its formative stages, featured an unusually thick protoplanetary disk. How and why this should be the case remains a mystery. Moving forward, it would be a good idea for researchers to create computer models showing how planets might form in such systems, while continuing the search for similar systems.
[Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society]


As many as 200 workers were killed after a tunnel collapsed at North Korea’s underground nuclear test site, according to unconfirmed reports by Japanese broadcaster TV Asahi. The accident is presumed to have happened in early September following the country’s most recent test of a hydrogen bomb, which may have compromised the geological strength of the mountain.
According to the report, the tunnel collapsed at North Korea’s Punggye-ri nuclear test site sometime around September 10th, which is about a week after the September 3rd test of a hydrogen bomb—the most powerful nuclear explosion ever achieved by the country. TV Asahi said it received the tip from unnamed North Korean sources who are familiar with the situation, and that the incident happened during construction of an underground tunnel at the nuclear test site in northeast North Korea.
Advertisement

Around a hundred workers were killed during an initial collapse, but many others were killed during the rescue attempt during a second collapse, “raising the possibility that more than 200 people died together,” stated the broadcaster.
The incident is still unconfirmed, but experts say the ground may have been loosened following the most recent nuclear test in early September. At the time, South Korea’s Meteorological Agency said there “seems to be a cavity of 60 meters to 100 meters [200 to 330 feet] under the mountain where there is a nuclear test site,” warning that radioactive substances might start to leak out if more tests are conducted within Mount Mantap, a 7,200-foot high-peak.
This news comes less than two weeks after a Washington Post report claimed that North Korea’s underground nuclear tests are so big they’ve “altered the geological structure of the land” and that it’s suffering from “tired mountain syndrome.”
“What we are seeing from North Korea looks like some kind of stress in the ground,” Columbia University seismologist Paul G. Richards told WaPo. “In that part of the world, there were stresses in the ground, but the explosions have shaken them up.”
Chinese scientists also chimed in, warning that further nuclear tests could cause the mountain to collapse and release radiation caused by the tests.
We’ll update this post as we learn more.
[Reuters, TV Asahi]


The way we exercise and who we choose to do it with is a very personal thing, but new research suggests that working out in a group setting has its advantages, resulting in significant improvements to physical, mental, and emotional measures. Those who workout alone, by contrast, experience virtually no changes in stress levels or perceived levels of fitness, at least those in the study—even though they tend to put in more effort.
New research published in The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association shows that working out in a group setting lowers stress by 26 percent (on average) compared to those who exercise by themselves. Those who prefer solo exercise sessions tend to workout for longer, experience no significant changes in stress levels, and limited improvements to quality of life. The new research, led by Dayna Yorks from the University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine, was limited to medical students, but the findings may hold implications for the general population as well.
Advertisement

Importantly, this study doesn’t tell us whether we get fitter or stronger when working out as an individual versus a group, but it does suggest that group settings are better when it comes to the psychological and emotional aspects of working out (an understated benefit of exercise). That said, exercising in a group makes people feel better about their physical well being, which can be tremendously motivating.
“The communal benefits of coming together with friends and colleagues, and doing something difficult, while encouraging one another, pays dividends beyond exercising alone,” said Yorks in a statement. “The findings support the concept of a mental, physical and emotional approach to health that is necessary for student doctors and physicians.”
For the study, Yorks and her colleagues recruited 69 medical students—a group known for high levels of stress and self-reported low quality of life. The students were asked to join either a 12-week exercise program, which they would complete in either a group setting or as individuals. Those who chose to work out in a group were enrolled in a CXWORX program (core strength and functional fitness training), which required them to workout for 30 minutes at least once a week. Those who chose individual workouts were allowed to participate in any exercise regimen of their choosing, such as running or weight lifting, but they had to exercise alone or with no more than two partners.
So this sample pool, in addition to being quite small, was not random; they were all med students and they were all given the choice of working out alone or doing it in groups (rather than being assigned).  And in fact, this did result in some selection effects. The students who enrolled themselves into the group setting had lower baseline emotional ratings compared to the other two groups (the individual, and control group which involved no exercise). “It is possible that those who self-selected into the fitness class group were looking for a means of improving their emotional [quality of life],” wrote the researchers in their study.
The students were asked to complete a survey every four weeks, in which they rated their levels of perceived stress and quality of life across three categories: mental, physical, and emotional. After 12 weeks, the mean monthly survey scores displayed improvements across all domains for the students who chose to work out in a group setting. Specifically, they reported a 12.6 percent increase in mental health, a 24.8 percent increase in physical health, and a 26 percent increase in emotional health. They also reported a 26.2 percent reduction in their perceived level of stress. As for the individual exercisers, they tended to work out twice as long as the other group, but saw no significant changes, except in mental quality of life, which saw an 11 percent increase.
“In terms of the study, I have no issues with it,” Andreas Bergdahl, an Associate Professor in Cardiovascular Physiology at Concordia University who wasn’t involved in the new study, told Gizmodo. “It is not particularly novel as these types of studies have been done over and over again. It has a fairly small sample size but I do like the fact that they looked at both men and women (often these are ‘mixed’ which hides potential gender differences). So all in all, a nice, small study which does not report anything new but rather confirms what has been seen in other publications.”
Advertisement

That “confirmation,” says Bergdahl, is that group workouts motivate us, give us confidence, holds us accountable, and makes the most of our time while working out. It also affords us the chance to have some fun and make some friends.
“As such group exercise is a good match for people who are outgoing or looking to meet new people, who benefit from structure, who find solo exercise boring or who have difficulty maintaining motivation by themselves,” he said. “In fact, peer support can be a great motivator, and can almost feel like group therapy.”
Bergdahl says there are physiological explanations behind this phenomenon. For example, group exercise unleashes a flood of chemicals in the brain, triggering the same responses seen in collective activities like dancing, laughter and religion.
Advertisement

“These chemicals, called endorphins are produced by virtually any vigorous physical activity, but group exercise classes appear to enhance the effect dramatically,” he said. “Related is the rise in pain threshold that has been measured in rowers exercising together vs alone. The lack of pain sensation, naturally means that the athlete can ‘push themselves’ to higher intensities, consequently enhancing the benefits of training. The release of endorphins actually means that for some (but not all) people, finding workout buddies could help turn fitness into a pleasant addiction (as you can get ‘hooked’ to the endorphins).”
Again, this study was limited to med students, and the point of the study was to see if group or individual exercise was better for the emotional well being of this particular group. But as Bergdahl points out, these findings may be applicable to anyone with extra stress and anxiety in their lives.
As a final note, the researchers are not saying that people who exercise alone are wasting their time.
Advertisement

“These findings should not be interpreted as a condemnation of individual exercise,” they write in the study. “We believe much benefit can be derived from physical exercise of any kind, but the addition of group fitness classes in a medical student population may have additional benefits. Engaging in social fitness activities could be a solution to improving the well-being of medical students and physicians.”
[The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association]


What happens when a precancerous growth turns from a benign cluster of abnormal cells to a full-blown disease? Researchers are turning to genome sequencing in an effort to find out.
This month, the National Cancer Institute funded a three-year pilot project that aims to develop a “pre-cancer genome atlas” for lung, breast, prostate and pancreatic cancer. Researchers will sequence the DNA from precancerous growths, along with RNA from individual tumor cells. The idea is to provide snapshots of the same tumor over time, hopefully identifying the tipping point at which its cells become cancerous. The results of the work could one day help researchers know which tumors to treat, and how.
Advertisement

The NCI project, which is part of the National Cancer Moonshot Initiative, is not the first research to home-in on this stage in the development of cancer. Last week, three non-profits—Stand Up To Cancer, the American Lung Association, and LUNGevity—announced a new four-year, $5 million effort to sequence the DNA from precancerous growths in the body’s airway, tracking changes in them over time. The project hopes to come up with new diagnostic tools to identify whether  lung abnormalities found on chest imaging are cancerous as early as possible.
At this point, little is still known about what happens in the early stages of a disease that pushes a growth over the edge to become cancer. At the same time, advancements in DNA sequencing mean that with tiny tissue samples taken from patients, researchers may gain useful data that can shed light on those early stages of disease. And the earlier cancer is identified, the more hope there is that doctors may be able to treat it.
[Nature]


In space, it has been said, no one can hear you scream. That may very well be the case, but that doesn’t mean space isn’t filled with an abundance of strange sounds in the form of radio bursts, electromagnetic pulses, solar wind, charged particle bursts, and other celestial emissions. We can’t hear these sounds in their raw form, so NASA has converted them into an audible format suitable for our ears—and the results are unsettling.

There are over 20 different space sounds featured in NASA’s new playlist, including Jovian magnetic burps, plasma waves, and interstellar light curves. These weird blips, screeches, and swoops are sure to make your hair stand on end.

NASA has provided explanations for some of these sounds:
Juno Captures the ‘Roar’ of Jupiter: NASA’s Juno spacecraft has crossed the boundary of Jupiter’s immense magnetic field. Juno’s Waves instrument recorded the encounter with the bow shock over the course of about two hours on June 24, 2016.
Plasma Waves: Plasma waves, like the roaring ocean surf, create a rhythmic cacophony that — with the EMFISIS instrument aboard NASA’s Van Allen Probes — we can hear across space.
Saturn’s Radio Emissions: Saturn is a source of intense radio emissions, which were monitored by the Cassini spacecraft. The radio waves are closely related to the auroras near the poles of the planet. These auroras are similar to Earth’s northern and southern lights. More of Saturn’s eerie-sounding radio emissions.
Sounds of Jupiter: Scientists sometimes translate radio signals into sound to better understand the signals. This approach is called “data sonification”. On June 27, 1996, the Galileo spacecraft made the first flyby of Jupiter’s largest moon, Ganymede, and this audio track represents data from Galileo’s Plasma Wave Experiment instrument.
Sounds of a Comet Encounter: During its Feb. 14, 2011, flyby of comet Tempel 1, an instrument on the protective shield on NASA’s Stardust spacecraft was pelted by dust particles and small rocks, as can be heard in this audio track.
Be sure to have this playlist handy when trick-or-treaters pay you a visit this coming Halloween.
[NASA]



For three consecutive nights, droves of octopuses have been seen walking out of the sea and stranding themselves along several beaches in Wales. Experts say the unusual behavior may have something to do with recent storms that swept through the region.
One by one they came ashore, stranding themselves along beaches in Cardigan Bay. It happened again the following day, and then yet again for a third straight night.
Advertisement

“It was a bit like an end of days scenario,” Brett Stone, who runs a dolphin tour in the region, explained to the BBC. “There were probably about 20 or 25 on the beach. I have never seen them out of the water like that.”
This species of curled octopus, which can grow up to 20 inches (50 cm) in length, don’t usually make it a habit of coming on land, instead preferring waters up to 325 feet (100 meters) deep. Their numbers have gone up recently due to declining cod populations, but they’re still vulnerable to dolphins.
Many of the octopuses were found in the intertidal zone, the area of the beach where the tide comes in and out. Speaking to The Telegraph, National Marine Aquarium curator James Wright said this behavior is “not common” and that there’s “something wrong with them.”

Because the area was hit by two recent storm systems—the remnants of Ophelia and Brian—Wright suspects a link. “It could simply be injuries sustained by the rough weather itself or there could be a sensitivity to a change in atmospheric pressure,” he told The Telegraph.
Stones says it’s also possible that they’re getting confused by the bright lights in New Quay harbour, or that they’re simply dying off now that summer has come to an end. Still, it’s weird that they’ve only started to do this now.
“We have got lobster pots and sometimes octopus will strip the bait, but they are very sneaky,” Stones told the BBC. “It is really rare to see them.”
Stones and several other beachgoers tried to collect some of the washed-up octopuses and return them to the sea, but many of them were found dead. Hopefully the octopuses will get re-oriented soon and put a stop to their invasion of Welsh beaches.
[Telegraph, BBC]


Last year’s powerful El Niño left meteorologists expecting a major surge in atmospheric carbon dioxide emissions. A World Meteorological Organization report released on Monday confirms these projections, showing that CO2 concentrations “surged at a record-breaking speed in 2016 to the highest level in 800,000 years.”

A combination of human activities and El Niño—which led to a string of droughts in tropical regions that limited the sequestration of CO2 by plants—caused average CO2 concentrations to rise at a record pace of 3.3 parts per million. Concentrations rose to 403.3 ppm in 2016, up from 400 ppm in 2015. CO2 levels are now 145% above pre-industrial  levels, which were about 280 ppm.
Earth’s tropical forests hoard huge amounts of carbon, but as temperatures rise and weather…
In announcing the results of the UN weather agency’s annual Greenhouse Gas Bulletin, WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas warned that without rapid cuts to CO2 and other greenhouse gas  emissions, temperature increases by the end of the century may be well above the 2 degree Celsius target set by the Paris Agreement on climate change.
Advertisement

“The laws of physics mean that we face a  much hotter, more extreme climate in the future,” he said. “There is currently no  magic wand to remove this CO2 from the atmosphere.”
According to the report, the rate of increase of atmospheric CO2 over the past  70 years is nearly 100 times larger than that at the end of the last ice  age.
“As far as direct and proxy observations can tell, such abrupt  changes in the atmospheric levels of CO2 have never before been seen,” the authors write.
Last year was also the warmest year on record since at least 1880, when modern record keeping began.
The report—along with a separate “Emissions Gas Report” from UN Environment that tracks country greenhouse gas commitments—arrive on the eve of the latest UN climate change negotiations, which will be held from November 7-17 in Bonn, Germany. Together, the reports aim to outline how the gap between current emissions levels and emissions targets can be bridged.
Advertisement

“The numbers don’t lie. We are still emitting far too much and this  needs to be reversed,” said Erik Solheim, head of  UN Environment, in a statement. “The last few years have seen enormous uptake of  renewable energy, but we must now redouble our efforts to ensure these  new low-carbon technologies are able to thrive. We have many of the  solutions already to address this challenge. What we need now is global  political will and a new sense of urgency.”
The Trump administration has dramatically diminished the US’s sense of urgency surrounding climate change, with Trump even pledging to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Despite all this, the US will still play a large role at the upcoming climate talks as no nation can formally withdraw from the agreement before 2020. Many nations still harbor the belief that the US can be convinced to stay in the agreement after all.



Medicine is perfect for heartwarming stories. Some close relative is facing the most hopeless prognosis, such as being in a vegetative state. Someone tries a wild treatment, and boom, people are crying, the relative is awake, and the headlines go viral. But science doesn’t really work this way.
A man recently “woke” from a vegetative state, crying again after “regaining consciousness,” creating a flurry of news coverage. Yet as exciting as this sounds, the case came with plenty of caveats. Many headlines rightly imply that the man was only minimally conscious, not much better than a vegetative state. He also died before the scientists published their paper. The truth is that you shouldn’t raise your hopes too high after single case studies.
Advertisement

As we wrote last month, a team of French scientists shot some electricity into the longest nerve (the vagus nerve) in the man’s brain for a month. They reported in their paper that the man moved from a vegetative to a minimally conscious state, going from a five to a 10 on the 23-point Coma Recovery Scale. That’s still a low score, though. New Scientist reported that the patient’s eyes widened when the researchers moved in close and he seemed to cry. He couldn’t say his name or demonstrate that he knew where he was. Also, his score was 10 for only a few days, after which it dropped down to a 6-8.
Stories like these always seem hopeful—signs of improvement can imply continued improvement. The Guardian later reported that the patient died after the study was over but before it was published, even though the study’s lead author withheld the fact and even implied that the patient was still alive.
It’s great to feel optimistic about this kind of progress if you’re hoping to one day see patients awake from many-year comas. But this work was based on a single case study published in Current Biology. That’s not how science works. What if it was a fluke, or the patient woke up on their own, or something else the scientists did actually caused the patient’s eyes to open? As blogger Neuroskeptic pointed out to me in an email, “The raters are also not mentioned as being blinded i.e. I think they knew all about the vagus stimulation. This raises the possibility of observer bias.”
That’s the point of blinded clinical trials. While they can be difficult to do and costly, trying a treatment on many people can at least confer some level of confidence that it will work, set realistic expectations, and isn’t based on the observers thinking it works because they want it to work.
Single cases like these are important and exciting. But we shouldn’t let the mask of a good story oversell what really happened. In this case, a man in a vegetative state began moving his eyes, and then died.


Computer scientists have developed an artificially intelligent system that’s an improvement over existing techniques used to crack CAPTCHAs, those super-annoying prompts that check to see whether you’re a human or a bot. For security experts, it means that existing CAPTCHA-based systems may soon be obsolete—if they aren’t already.
AI developers have been trying to defeat CAPTCHAs for years, but these systems require a lot of digital horsepower to do so. Challenge-response tests that present jumbled and distorted characters in various fonts and configurations are super-tough for machines, but not so tough for humans. We don’t have a problem picking out the letters, inferring characters from warped shapes, or telling two overlapping letters apart. Our highly adaptable brains allow us to do this and AIs, for the most part, are narrow systems that can’t think very well outside of the box
Advertisement

That’s why Dileep George, co-founder of Vicarious, has incorporated insights from neuroscience to “train” a computer to generalize beyond what it’s primarily taught. His new system, called the Recursive Cortical Network (RCN), is apparently able to parse the CAPTCHA test more effectively than previous models, and with less training. This means that answer-response systems can now be cracked with greater efficiency, leaving sites increasingly vulnerable to bots. The new research was published yesterday in Science.
Most CAPTCHA-defeating systems are trained on literally millions of pre-labeled CAPTCHA image examples, or they’ve been equipped with specific rules about how to discern each type of image. But like the human brain, the new system can apparently learn and generalize using just a few examples. George says RCN is 300 times more data-efficient than previous techniques, and it works by making assumptions about the visual world. As George explains in NPR:
During the training phase, it builds internal models of the letters that it is exposed to. So if you expose it to As and Bs and different characters, it will build its own internal model of what those characters are supposed to look like. So it would say, these are the contours of the letter, this is the interior of the letter, this is the background, etc. And then, when a new image comes in ... it tries to explain that new image, trying to explain all the pixels of that new image in terms of the characters it has seen before. So it will say, this portion of the A is missing because it is behind this B.
CAPTCHA systems vary greatly around the internet, but RCN proved to be highly adaptable, solving reCAPTCHAs and BotDetect about two-thirds of the time, and Yahoo And PayPal CAPTCHAs roughly 57 percent of the time. It’s not perfect, but it’s a step in the right direction. And by right direction, the researchers are referring to systems that can visually reason like humans. Ultimately, the researchers are working towards generalized AI that functions similarly to the human brain.
“This has been a long time coming,” Marc Goodman, author of Future Crimes: Everything Is Connected, Everyone Is Vulnerable and What We Can Do About It,” told Gizmodo. “CAPTCHAs depend on human vision being better than computer vision. Unfortunately that’s changing rapidly and computer vision is getting as good—and will soon be potentially better—than human vision. When that happens, all image-related authentication systems will come under threat as artificial intelligence-based computer vision systems will be able to solve the same exact puzzles that people can.”
For some sites, this means CAPTCHA-based security systems will become obsolete. One solution is to make CAPTCHAs more visually difficult, but that’ll just make it more difficult for humans, who will start to get frustrated, and gradually find themselves unable to pass the majority of CAPTCHAs.  Another option is to devise entirely new authentication systems. And in fact, Google has already killed the CAPTCHA.
“Ultimately, system authentication will be based more upon biometrics, and in particular, behavior metrics, which track and measure things about you and your behaviors to authenticate you,” said Goodman. “For example, the accelerometer within your phone nowadays is being used by many financial apps to uniquely fingerprint how you hold your phone when you enter your password. We all do that uniquely, and that is a type of digital fingerprint that can help authenticate you on websites and apps. We will see much much more of that in the future.”
Advertisement

One thing’s certain, an arms race is currently underway in which humans are finding it increasingly difficult to prove they’re the real deal. It’s frightening to imagine, but the day may arrive when it’ll be practically impossible for a human to prove their human-ness over the internet.
[Science]


On the surface, it makes sense. Healthy people generally cost insurers less, so why not encourage policyholders to live healthfully by doling out perks and discounts, and then track them to make sure they’re sticking to their end of the bargain? This was the logic that spurred one the nation’s largest life insurance providers, John Hancock,  to offer massively discounted Apple Watches to customers. But there’s a major hitch: by tracking all that data, policy holders may be giving away a lot more than they realize.
John Hancock first rolled out its Apple Watch promotion in 2016, as part of the Vitality program, which is designed to offer perks to policyholders who live healthy lifestyles. Through the program, participants could buy a $350 Apple Watch for just $25, and earn an almost-free watch along with insurance discounts by meeting exercise goals over a two year period. On Monday, the company announced that it was expanding the program availability to all participants of the Vitality program. The program, the company said, had been a tremendous success, with about half of policyholders meeting monthly activity goals.
Advertisement

The thing is, even health data like how many steps you’ve taken can be pretty sensitive, revealing information.
“Once that data is in their hands you cannot control how they are going to use it,” Pam Dixon, executive director of the World Privacy Forum, told Gizmodo.
In the past few years, we have already begun to see examples of the surprising ways in which such data can be used. In a 2014 case, a Canadian law firm used Fitbit history to prove a client’s personal injury claim. The next year, data from a Fitbit was used to undermine a woman’s rape claim. In February, a man’s pacemaker put him in prison for arson.
And in an email to Gizmodo, John Hancock clarified that its access to information about those participating in the program is expansive.
“The Vitality Group has set up direct integration with Apple Watch through the Health app,” the company said. “After the member gives his/her permission to share data from the Health app, recorded data (steps, active energy and weight) from the Apple Watch regularly syncs to the John Hancock Vitality app, enabling policyholders to earn Vitality points for their activities.”
In other words, John Hancock is constantly mining your Apple Watch data for information about your health.
John Hancock is not the only company to integrate such tracking with insurance pricing. Health insurers including UnitedHealthcare offer perks for meeting goals while wearing fitness trackers, as do some workplace wellness programs offered by individual employers.
Advertisement

The problem here is two fold. First, is the issue of how such tracking directly affects a person’s coverage. The second, is other ways that data might be used.
John Hancock’s program offers participants the ability to save up to 15 percent on their premium. But those who don’t meet fitness goals may wind up having to retroactively pay for their watch on top of not receiving discounts, which critics have noted is unfairly biased against people who may not have lifestyles that allow them to make it to the gym, like low-income people working multiple jobs.
There is also the question of whether that information could be used to either raise premiums or deny coverage.
Advertisement

“Can you imagine if after the holidays you get a reminder from you life insurer saying, like, ‘You’ve gained seven pounds over the holidays, your premium is going up,” said Dixon. “It’s like behavioral control.”
The Affordable Care Act bars insurers from denying coverage to customers with preexisting medical conditions, but if that rule is ever successfully lifted by Congressional Republicans, insurers could turn to wearable data  for evidence to deny health care or raise rates.
And the ACA does not offer the same protections for other forms of insurance, like life insurance. Auto insurers, for example, are already relying on similar methods to determine coverage rates, by asking customers  to install devices in their cars and setting rates based on driving behavior.
Advertisement

John Hancock said that it never uses data from Vitality to underwrite insurance policies, but there isn’t much besides that promise that prevents it from doing so. It’s easy to imagine our health data becoming a point system akin to, say, a credit score, used to rate us and determine how much we will pay for a variety of things.
“You’ve got someone looking over your shoulder all the time,” said Dixon. “I don’t know if that’s something we want as a culture. How much do we care about saving a dollar and what are we giving up for that dollar?”
Perhaps the bigger issue though, is the lack of information about who else besides John Hancock might see your data and other ways it might be used.
Advertisement

The company told Gizmodo that it does not sell health data to anyone. But it also said that it does share personal health data  with third parties “who perform services on our behalf” like NutriSavings, an independent program that encourages healthy eating through which policyholders can qualify for a HealthyFood benefit.
“They are required to have information protection safeguards in place,” said John Hancock. “We are contractually bound to only use the information to perform those services and are not permitted to use the information for marketing purposes.”
But John Hancock is a big, old company, which also includes an investment arm and retirement plan services. And in 2004, it was bought by a Canadian insurance firm, Manulife Financial. There’s nothing in its statements or the law that prevents the company from sharing information with other companies under its umbrella, or with future companies that might become part of the network, said Lee Tien, a lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation. Unlike health data your doctor gets, information John Hancock collects from an Apple Watch is not protected under HIPAA.
Advertisement

“Americans generally believe in some way that their medical or health information is treated in some ways than other information,” said Tien. “But Apple is not your doctor and whoever you send your information to is not your doctor.”
And while the company does allow users to revoke permission at anytime, it’s unclear whether John Hancock might still hang on to certain insights gleaned from the data it has already collected.
Advertisement

Google, Apple, and other companies are investing heavily in health tracking technology, hoping that devices like the Apple Watch will allow us to track data  and easily share it with people like doctors. In September, the FDA announced that Apple, Fitbit, Google, and others would all join a pilot program designed to speed the development of such technology.
The biggest problem, both Tien and Dixon said, is that it’s hard to anticipate how valuable this information might be in the future, and how it might be used then.
“In the next 20 years we just don’t know what technology is going to bring to us, but I would guess we are going to have some very surprising things related to biometrics,” said Dixon. “I am cautious about handing over this type of data without very robust rules.”
Advertisement

An extensive report published last year by the Center for Digital Democracy and American University concluded that there are almost no privacy safeguards in place for consumer health data, and that there are plenty of industries ready  to mine that data for profit. Combined with other consumer data easily available for purchase from data brokers, health information could be used to paint a startlingly detailed portrait of individuals.
“Biosensors will routinely be able to capture not only an individual’s heart rate, body temperature, and movement, but also brain activity, moods, and emotions,” the report read. “These data can, in turn, be combined with personal information from other sources—including health-care providers and drug companies—raising such potential harms as discriminatory profiling, manipulative marketing, and security breaches.”
Of course, plenty of people do benefit from tracking their activity via Fitbits and Apple Watches. It can be helpful to have something remind you that you’ve spent your whole day on the couch. But if you’re looking to cash in on the health benefits of wearables, it might be better to just buy one yourself. In the end, it might wind up costing a whole lot less.
Advertisement

Update: This story has been updated to accurately reflect when the Apple Watch program rolled out.


In the first study of its kind, researchers from the Stanford University School of Medicine have shown that people who use pot have sex about 20 percent more often than those who do not. It’s an eye-opening finding, but a classic case where correlation doesn’t necessarily imply causation.
A positive association between the frequency of sex and marijuana use has been reported in the latest edition of The Journal of Sexual Medicine. To get to this conclusion, the Stanford University researchers who wrote the study, Andrew Sun and Michael L. Eisenberg, surveyed more than 50,000 Americans between the ages of 25 and 45. Concerns that pot use might somehow be curbing our sexual desire and performance are likely overstated, argue the researchers, who at the same time caution that, “It doesn’t say if you smoke more marijuana, you’ll have more sex.” Indeed, correlation is not causation, and this study doesn’t show that pot is responsible for the apparent licentiousness of marijuana users.
Advertisement

This is a timely study given the current popularity of the drug and its decriminalization in certain jurisdictions. The National Institute on Drug Abuse claims that 20 million adult Americans use pot, and the number is rising. At this stage, however, its role in sex is a bit vague, with evidence pointing in both directions. Some research suggests that heavy use results in erectile dysfunction and reduced sperm counts, while other research suggests marijuana stimulates activity in brain regions responsible for sexual arousal and activity. This new study is an attempt to learn a bit more about the potential connections between sex and pot.
Before we get into the nuts-and-bolts of this study and its conclusions, it’s important to understand where the data came from. The researchers pulled data from the CDC’s National Survey of Family Growth. This survey asks Americans about their family structures, sexual practices, child rearing, and drug habits. On those last two points, Americans were specifically asked how many times they had sex with a member of the opposite sex in the past four weeks, and how much pot they smoked/ingested over the past year. The survey works in four-year cycles and offers data from 2002 to 2015.
So right off the bat we’ve got a couple of problems. First of all, the researchers pulled data from a heteronormative survey, which means their study is also heteronormative. It’s possible (and probable) that people not included in the study have similar tendencies, but this survey (unfortunately) can’t tell us that. Secondly, the survey relied on self-reported data, which can be notoriously unreliable. For example, pot users may think they’re having more sex than they’re actually having or reporting, or that they’re smoking less (or more) than what they’re reporting.
Those concerns notwithstanding, the researchers found some rather compelling associations. In the analysis, 14.5 percent of women and 23.5 percent of men reported having used marijuana to varying degrees over the past year. When comparing these pot users to abstainers, the researchers uncovered a positive correlation between the frequency of marijuana use and the frequency of sexual intercourse. In fact, the more pot that a person uses, the more sex they claimed to have (i.e. a dose-dependent relationship appears to exist between pot and sexual frequency).
“Frequent marijuana use doesn’t seem to impair sexual motivation or performance,” said Eisenberg. “If anything, it’s associated with increased coital frequency.” (Hmmm, suddenly wondering if a negative correlation exists between people who use the term “increased coital frequency.”)
Sun and Eisenberg’s claim that marijuana doesn’t impair sexual performance is actually without warrant—they can’t know that from the data. They’re equating sexual frequency with performance, which isn’t fair. For all we know, the sex sucked when users were high—particularly if they were really high.
Advertisement

“The overall trend we saw applied to people of both sexes and all races, ages, education levels, income groups and religions, every health status, whether they were married or single and whether or not they had kids,” added Eisenberg.
Importantly, this trend also held true for respondents who used other drugs, such as alcohol or cocaine. Sun and Eisenberg interpret this to meaning that the increased sex isn’t simply a sign that these folks are less-inhibited (i.e. that pot users are more open to trying things out, like increased sex and hard drugs). That may very well be the case, but more research should be done to be absolutely sure (e.g. a study on personality types as it relates to drug use, sexual proclivities, etc.).
Diving deeper into the study, women who didn’t use pot in the past year had sex, on average, six times during the past four weeks, while women who smoked pot daily had sex 7.1 times during the same period. For men, it was 5.6 for nonusers, and 6.9 for daily users. That means pot users are having about 20 percent more sex than abstainers. Which, whoa.
Advertisement

This study would seem to suggest that marijuana is a good way to foster sexual activity among couples who are struggling in this area; but as noted, pot potentially produces undesirable physiological effects that may be counterproductive (i.e. erectile issues, low sperm count, poor performance, etc.). And as noted, this study doesn’t actually prove that pot is the “active ingredient” that increases sexual desire (but the researchers say the results “hint at it”). Lastly, this study also doesn’t mean that if you don’t smoke pot that your sex life is somehow diminished or compromised. Definitely not.
Sun and Eisenberg say this is the first study to examine the relationship between marijuana use and frequency of sexual intercourse among Americans. That means we still have lots to learn about the relationship between the two, and that we shouldn’t get too excited (or upset) about what is, admittedly, very preliminary research in this area.
[The Journal of Sexual Medicine]


New research shows that the British Museum’s most famous artifact—the Portland Vase—was manufactured by a different technique than the one traditionally assumed by historians and archaeologists.
For centuries, experts in antiquities have said that the Portland Vase, along with other Roman cameo glass artifacts, were manufactured by the ancient Romans using a blown glass technique. Australian National University scientist and expert glassmaker Richard Whiteley is now challenging this longheld assumption, arguing that many cameo glass pieces were built with a cold-processing technique now known as “pate de verre.”
For those who are into this stuff, that’s a bit of a shock. Roman cameo glass from this era, in addition to being extremely rare (only 15 other Roman cameo glass vases and plaques are known to exist), has been hugely influential. The Portland Vase (crafted sometime between 30 BC to 50 AD) is probably the best known piece of Roman cameo glass, inspiring many glass artisans and manufacturers from the early 18th century to the present day. These ornate glass pieces included vases, large wall plaques, and small jewelry items. Historians and archaeologists suspected that the cameo glass was made by a process requiring blown glass, but Whiteley says he’s uncovered evidence showing this isn’t the case.
Advertisement

“It’s not about proving people wrong,” said Whiteley in a statement. “It’s about correcting the historical record and reviving and restoring a technique lost for over 2,000 years.”
He came to this conclusion after examining some Roman cameo glass from the ANU Classics department with a computed tomography scanner. This allowed him to see, for the first time, the shape, direction, and composition of air bubbles trapped between the blue and white layers of Roman glass.
“I remember the moment I saw it, I said: Oh my god, this is extraordinary, because I also saw cold working marks in the surface which were inconsistent with the assumption that it was blown,” Whiteley said. “I carve and shape glass with my hands, and have done for decades. The marks I saw were inconsistent with what I see in my work.”
Specifically, Whiteley’s team saw a bubble configuration with the glass that’s produced by a pressing and turning motion. He theorizes that cold granulated glass was packed into a mould, and then a blob of molten blue glass was introduced and pressed against the mould, heating the white granules from behind.
“You just would not get a bubble that size and flat-shaped from blowing,” he said. “The most striking thing about it, is not its size and its flatness, but we found a section where the blue glass has mixed with the granulated white specks of glass.”
Advertisement

Whiteley admits he’s not the first person to make this claim. Back in the 1990s, German artist Rosemarie Lierke reached a similar conclusion, but her writings weren’t accepted on account of lack of evidence. Whiteley will present his new evidence at a historical glassworks conference at the British Museum next week, and his supporting paper has yet to appear in a peer-review journal. Until then, we’ll have to temper our expectations about this finding.
Whiteley hopes his new theory will attract enough attention and funding for a research team to recreate the Portland Vase using the pate de verre method. In his opinion, that would settle the debate once and for all.
We reached out to several experts to get their opinions on this research, and will update this post should we hear back.
[Australian National University]


On Thursday, President Trump will announce a major move in the battle against America’s opioid crisis: He will direct that the Department of Health and Human Services declare the opioid crisis a public health emergency.
The action has been long-anticipated as use of opioids has rapidly escalated to a full-blown epidemic. A recent federal count found that deaths from the use of fentanyl has skyrocketed nearly 540 percent over the past three years, killing more than 60,000 people in the United States last year alone.  But Trump’s move falls short of initial promises to declare America’s opioid use a national emergency, which would have ear-marked federal funding to address the problem.
Advertisement

Declaring a public health emergency, on the other hand, will not on its own release any money to deal with the crisis, though it will allow grant money to be used in efforts combatting the crisis. The move will likely also relax certain laws and regulations in order to better address the still-growing crisis. And Trump officials told reporters that it would expand access to medical care in rural areas through things like telemedicine.
Trump is slated to announce the plan at the White House Thursday afternoon before signing  a presidential memorandum on opioids. While tackling opioid abuse was a major talking point on the campaign trail, Thursday’s announcement will be the first significant step he has taken towards making good on promises to make drug abuse a top priority.
All this said, as news of the pending announcement spread, critics of Trump in Washington said the move was still not enough.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi told The Washington Post that the announcement comes at the same time as proposed cuts to programs aimed at opioids abuse like Medicaid.
Trump’s statements, she said, are “words without the money.”


Human’s impact on nature is unmistakeable, from vast swaths of lost forest to heaps of trash on beaches. Looking at these images might be upsetting, but still demonstrate what we’ve done. They don’t demonstrate what we might lose.
Scientists warn that we’re potentially amidst a sixth mass extinction event, thanks to human activity. Humans are indirectly and directly responsible for the loss of species once as common as passenger pigeons and Tasmanian tigers. Before these species go extinct, they’re endangered—and one photographer is trying to document these species facing the struggle before it’s too late.
Advertisement

Photographer Tim Flach released his collection of stunning photographs in the enormous book Endangered this week, alongside commentary from chief scientist of the National Geographic Society, Jonathan Baille. The book costs 65 bucks. But honestly—it’s very good.
Pangolins are considered the most trafficked animal in the world. They’re hunted in Africa as meat, and in Asia where their scales are used in traditional medical treatments. All four species are considered vulnerable and one is critically endangered, writes Baille.
The sea angel’s endangered status hasn’t been evaluated, but it’s falling victim to ocean acidification. These animals are important for feeding other fish, like the larvae of cod and salmon.
Hippopotamuses are listed as vulnerable by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. Their numbers have fallen due to hunting both for meat and for their teeth, which can substitute as ivory.
Polar bears are listed as vulnerable by the IUCN as they succumb to the effects of melting polar ice caps, thanks to climate change. However, Inuit communities attempt to hunt the bears sustainably, writes Baille.
Pictured above are chalice coral polyps, followed by Montipora coral. Single coral polyps attach, building and grow together as a colony in one large aggregation of connected individual organisms. They are listed as “least concern” by the IUCN but are vulnerable to bleaching events from the effects of climate change.
Yellow-eyed tree frogs lay their eggs ten feet in the air in the plants surrounding ponds during rainy seasons, writes Baille. The frog’s habitat has been stunted thanks to development in Costa Rica’s capital, San José. The frog is currently listed as endangered by the IUCN.
Poachers and smugglers trade Madagascar’s ploughshare tortoises for their shells, and the species is now critically endangered. One organization bred 600 tortoises from a set of confiscated ones, then purposely defaced the shells to deter smugglers, writes Baille.
The pied tamarin is listed as endangered by the IUCN as suburban development has led to deforestation and habitat lost. Numbers have begun to grow as conservationists breed the species in captivity.
Endangered tells the story of the Yunnan snub-nosed monkey’s biggest fan, filmmaker Xi Zhinong. He created a documentary about the monkeys, and saved a swatch of their habitat from logging after sending a litter to the Chinese government.
The monarch butterfly isn’t endangered, yet. But conservationists are concerned after observing large declines in migrating populations in California and Mexico between 1997 and 2016, writes Baille.
Phillipine eagles are an apex predator, which makes them vulnerable to toxic chemicals that have built up through the food web as bigger animals eat smaller animals. Much of their habitat has also been deforested, and they are listed as critically endangered by the IUCN.
Each snow leopard survives on over 80 square mile habitat apiece in central Asia, meaning that humans may increasingly come into contact with them as they expand their farmland. They’re listed as endangered by the IUCN.
Saiga are listed as critically endangered by the IUCN after hunting for their meat and horns, as well as a recent bacterial infection that decimated populations. Conservationists are hopeful that the saiga will bounce back, writes Baille.
Rhinos have succumbed to heavy losses due to the high value of their horns. The South African government legalized domestic trade hoping that prices would drop, but Baille writes that 1,000 rhinos were still killed in 2016. Pictured here is the northern white rhino—there are only three northern white rhinos left on Earth, all owned by a zoo.
The 16-foot-long beluga sturgeon is illegally hunted for food—its eggs go for over $9,000 a pound, writes Baille. It is simultaneously succumbing to habitat loss from damming projects, and the IUCN lists it as critically endangered.
There are only a few hundred Indian gharials left on Earth, mostly in sanctuary. They’re the victims of threats like hunting for food and medicine as well as habitat loss from humans.
[Abrams Books]


By analyzing the bones of a small, feathered dinosaur known as Sinosauropteryx, paleontologists have mapped its unique color patterning. Incredibly, this creature featured a bandit mask-like stripe across its eyes, similar to some mammals and birds living today.
Sinosauropteryx (pronounced “Sine-oh-sore-op-tear-icks”) was first discovered in China in 1996, and it was the first dinosaur (outside of ancient birds and their immediate relatives) to be found with evidence of feathers. A new study published in Current Biology shows that it exhibited multiple forms of camouflage, including countershading (light bottom, dark top), a distinctive striped tail, and a so-called bandit’s mask—the same kind seen in modern animals such as raccoons and skunks. The discovery shows that, unsurprisingly, dinosaurs evolved sophisticated schemes to camouflage themselves (which also implies they had good vision), and that, because similar camo schemes exist today, dinosaurs must have lived in environments similar to ones we see today.
Advertisement

“Dinosaurs are fascinating beasts and filled up a lot of niches and modes of life that are now occupied by mammals and living birds,” Jakob Vinther, co-author of the new study, told Gizmodo. “We can show that they looked much like living animals because the lives they lived aren’t much different from living ones.”
Indeed, if there was ever an animal that needed camouflage it was the dinosaur. Sinosauropteryx, which lived around 120 million years ago in what is now China, was a relatively small animal that lived in world filled with fearsome predators—including relatives of the Tyrannosaurus rex. At the same time, camouflage also allowed Sinosauropteryx to sneak up on unsuspecting prey, like small lizards.
Using polarized light photography, researchers from the University of Bristol produced high resolution and contrast-rich images of Sinosauropteryx fossils. Fossilized feathers only preserve when they’re pigmented, so by mapping the presence and absence of feathers, the scientists were able to tease out its color patterns. Previous to this work, paleontologists looked at a different specimen, detecting small and round melanosomes (light-absorbing pigments found in skin and feathers) indicative of brown coloration.
“The bandit mask was surely the most fascinating discovery,” said Vinther. “It’s very common in living animals. The exact function is up to debate, but now we can show that dinosaurs also had this pattern.”
The bandit’s mask likely provided varied function, including reduction of glare (think of football players who paint dark bands underneath their eyes) or as a way to disguise eyes from predators.
“In mammals bandit masks are commonly seen in mid-sized predators and serve as warning colouration (skunk, badgers) warning larger predators that they will give up a fight, or smell,” said Vinther. “However, we think that the function in birds is more likely to be the best comparison for this dinosaur.”
Advertisement

Scientists hypothesize that the facial mask of shrikes, a small bird, allows them to hunt into the sun, which helps them detect prey and engage in surprise attacks. Other living birds with dark bandit eyes include the blue dacnis, masked laughingthrush, and nuthatches.
The researchers also detected the presence of a striped tail and a very common form of camo known as countershading. With countershading, an animal features a dark back and a light belly, which makes them look flatter and less three-dimensional. Camouflaged this way, animals don’t stand out as much against the backdrop. Animals feature varying degrees of countershading depending on their habitat, and Sinosauropteryx’s particular pattern of countershading suggests it lived in open habitats, like a plain or great meadow. Last year, the same researchers studied another dinosaur found in the same ancient lake bed deposit, but its countershading suggested it lived in a forest.
“So these two dinosaurs did not necessarily interact much with each other or at all,” said Vinther. “This means that we can now paint a more vivid picture of the landscape and habitats these dinosaurs lived in around these lake beds they are found in.”
[Current Biology]


A 6,000-year-old skull found in Papua New Guinea is the earliest record of a human killed in a tsunami, according to new research published this week.
Back in 1929, Australian geologist Paul Hossfeld uncovered a partial human skull outside the coastal town of Aitape in Papua New Guinea. An international team of scientists recently returned to the site in an effort to find out what might have killed this individual. Their analysis, which now appears in PLOS One, shows that the skull was buried in sediments bearing the distinctive characteristics of an ancient tsunami. “[We] conclude that the skull was laid down in a tsunami deposit and as such may represent the oldest known tsunami victim in the world,” write the researchers in the study.
Advertisement

The partial skull is only one of a few early skeletal remains uncovered in the area, and it was originally thought to belong to an archaic human species known as Homo erectus. More reliable carbon dating placed it to between 5,000 and 6,000 years old, which means it most certainly belonged to a modern human.
In 2014, a team led by James Goff, an anthropologist from the University of New South Wales and first author of the new study, returned to the spot, Paniri Creek, where the skull was originally found in hopes of finding new evidence. Ninety years ago, Hossfeld didn’t bother to record any local evidence, such as taking soil samples or analyzing the stratigraphic layers, and instead wrote a field description that, at the very least, included information about where the skull fragment was unearthed.
“What we were doing was actually going in and sampling the sediments to bring back for lab analysis that would tell us a lot more about the age and depositional history there,” said co-author Mark Golitko, an assistant professor of anthropology at the University of Notre Dame, in a statement. “We were able to use modern scientific techniques to understand a little more about how this place formed and what we were actually looking at.”
The researchers conducted a chemical analysis of the dirt and sediment found in-and-around the site, while also measuring the size of the grains. Importantly, they also discovered the presence of preserved diatoms—small, single-celled aquatic creatures that can be used to paint a picture of what water conditions were like at the time. When diatoms die, they form a tiny shell around them and then sink to the bottom. Goff’s team put the sediment under a microscope and counted the diatoms, which allowed them to determine the temperature, salinity, and energy of the water when they died.
“These sediments that the Aitape skull was in have pure marine diatoms in them, which is ocean water that’s inundating it,” explained Golitko. “It’s really high-energy ocean water—high-energy enough for these little tiny specks of silica that the diatoms build to be broken as they’re washing in.”
These three things combined—the high-energy water, the chemical signatures, and the grain sizes of the sediment—strongly suggest the presence of a tsunami at the time the skull was buried.
Advertisement

“We have now been able to confirm what we have long suspected,” said Goff. “The geological similarities between the sediments at the place where the skull was found and sediments laid down during the 1998 tsunami that hit this same coastline have made us realize that human populations in this area have been affected by these massive inundations for thousands of years.”
The authors say the Aitape individual was either violently killed by the ancient tsunami, or their grave was ripped apart by a tsunami, leading to their head—but not the rest of the body—being brought out to sea and then back to shore where it was buried among the incoming debris. But this “grave” theory, say the researchers, isn’t likely.
Despite this ancient tsunami, people continued to live along this part of the Papua New Guinea coast. Looking ahead, the researchers would like to learn more about how people lived in the area at the time and in the periods following this natural disaster to see how they might have responded to these risks. As the researchers conclude in their study:
[Tsunamis] may have contributed to a much more dynamic world of community and individual mobility and an increasing reliance on risk-mitigation strategies including the fostering and maintenance of wider-ranging social ties...[playing] a significant role in the spread of materials and new ideas and practices throughout the [southwest] Pacific as documented in the mid-Holocene archaeological record.
So as destructive as tsunamis have been (and continue to be), these recurring natural disasters may have actually brought communities together, pushing human development forward. In this case, it was one step back, two steps forward.
[PLOS One]


On Monday, Chinese scientists published a paper heralding a truly remarkable feat: Using the genome-editing technique CRISPR, they created 12 healthy pigs with about 24 percent less body fat than usual. The implications of their research is potentially huge. The pigs have a gene that allows them to better regulate body temperature by burning up fat, which could save farmers millions in heating and feeding costs and prevent little piggies from suffering and dying in the cold.
Then came the headlines.
“Healthy bacon? Scientists engineer skinny pigs with low body fat,” wrote Newsweek, amping up the claim even more on social media to proclaim that “diet bacon might now be a thing.”
“CRISPR’d pigs could produce low-fat bacon,” said TechCrunch.
“Scientists edited pig genes and accidentally made bacon healthier,” BGR exclaimed.
Advertisement

Here’s the thing, though: Scientists have not created a diet bacon product. Bacon is not and will never be healthy. What makes bacon sizzle and crisp in a pan is fat. Not to mention that, fat aside, bacon contains almost half the recommended daily amount of salt and often nitrates to preserve shelf life and enhance color. Not exactly the picture of health.
The Chinese scientists did engineer a pig that will have more lean meat than typical pigs, which may be better for farmers looking to sell to conscious consumers. But there are already leaner cuts of bacon available in any grocery store. And, as The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this year, when it comes to pigs, Americans are leaning towards fattier meat, rather than leaner. As any bacon lover will tell you, leaner bacon just doesn’t fry up properly in a pan. Short of engineering less fatty fat, it’s unlikely the diet bacon will be a thing, well, ever.
What scientists did do is actually much more significant. They found a way to potentially improve the welfare of livestock animals and at the same time a farmer’s bottom line. Pigs lack a gene, called UCP1, that most other mammals have to help regulate body temperature in cold weather. By editing a mouse version of the gene into pig cells, they gave pigs the ability to withstand colder temperatures more easily, too. (Not that such a product will be available any time soon in the US, given the FDA’s hesitancy to approve genetically modified animals for sale and consumer skepticism about eating them.)
If you’re looking for a healthier breakfast option, the best route doesn’t require any genetic engineering at all: Just lay off the bacon.


April 22nd was supposed to be a victory lap and the birth of a new movement. That day, the March for Science saw a million scientists and science lovers descend on Washington, D.C. and cities and hamlets around the world, the physical manifestation of a viral online campaign.
It was the first time scientists had ever mobilized en masse as the centerpiece of movement, spurred by the Trump administration’s attacks on everything from climate change science to diversity and inclusivity. But in the six months since the signs were recycled and the white coats returned to the labs, the March for Science has been dogged by the same problems that plagued it in the run up to April 22nd. On Monday, 15 past and present march volunteers posted an open letter outlining persistent issues with the March, including its approach to inclusivity, organizational dysfunction, and mismanagement.
Advertisement

“We are concerned about ongoing issues related to transparency, undervaluing and mismanaging volunteer labor, and sidelining both diverse voices and the ways science relates to justice and equity,” the authors wrote in their letter. “Though the organization calls itself an open, grassroots movement, it is run like a closed, hierarchical organization.”
The open letter belies turmoil at an organization that at its conception was seen as the potential dawn of a new movement fusing science with advocacy. Instead, letter signatories and other past and present volunteers have told a story of an organization unable to provide clarity on its day-to-day work as well as its next steps.
“It’s not really one individual but the way the organization is structured,” Amber Ying, a social media volunteer with the March and one of the open letter’s signatories, told Earther. “There’s very little communication about what is going with daily operations.”
Beyond the daily grind, the letter signatories also say there are deeper questions about the finances of the organization. There is no public information about what’s happening with the $1.3 million raised by the organization through April 30, the donations that have come in since or, until recently, who is being paid by the national organization.
In the wake of the open letter, the March for Science updated its people page to reflect that it has nine employees. It does not include all their roles in the organization, though, which stands somewhat in contrast to the transparency the open letter signatories called for.
One of those paid staffers is Caroline Weinberg, one of the national co-chairs, who has been paid as the interim executive director since late August. The letter signatories said that hiring Weinberg goes against promises made that the co-chairs would have a role on the board but not take paid positions.
Advertisement

Weinberg told Earther that the search for a permanent executive director will begin December “if not earlier” and more details will become available on the organization’s financials soon.
“Our monthly expenses are $36,870 going towards staff, digital advocacy tools, legal fees, insurance, and things like website hosting and email accounts,” she said. “Our budget will be released this week as part of our [501]c3 application.”
Fights about inclusivity have also sapped the March of some of its energy. The March first presented itself as apolitical, which rankled some scientists who view science and politics as intimately entwined. After authoring a diversity statement, Harvard cognitive scientist Steven Pinker accused the bubbling movement of compromising “its goals with anti-science PC/identity politics/hard-left rhetoric.”
Advertisement

That started a back and forth on how to represent diversity and politics punctuated by the March taking those issues lightly and at times, flippantly.

The letter signatories and other scientists also suggest the March continues to push diversity issues to the side. The March for Science came under fire from the right for being too focused on identity politics, and swerved in response to those critiques in a way that alienated researchers who view science, diversity and justice as intrinsically linked.
Advertisement

Those issues have led a number of scientists Earther spoke with to focus their efforts advocating for science and equality in science elsewhere.
“The Science March could have been a moment where the public and the scientific community came together to redefine what science for all would look like, but I just haven’t seen any concerted efforts to shape that kind of a conversation into a coherent vision I can rally behind,” Maryam Zaringhalam, a molecular biologist who marched in April, told Earther.
Zaringhalam is one of the leaders of 500 Women Scientists, another viral grassroots effort that sprung out of an open letter about more inclusivity in science in the wake of Trump’s inauguration. The group initially supported the March for Science and offered to help organizers address diversity after the march was repeatedly criticized for tweets that seemed to make light of serious issues.
Advertisement

“Whenever we tried to offer constructive criticism, we were met with defensiveness, which didn’t help shape the March in a way that aligned with 500 Women Scientists’ mission,” Zaringhalam said.
That led 500 Women Scientists to eventually dissolve their partnership with the march. Others who see the explicit link between science, politics, and diversity also view the March as still failing to represent the reality that science doesn’t happen in a vacuum.
“Honestly, I can’t tell what the March for Science is up to these days,” Chanda Prescod-Weinstein, a theoretical astrophysicist at the University of Washington and early March critic, told Earther. “I have no sense that anything has come out of the March, except a lot of clarity on how American higher education has failed to contextualize for students of science the relationship between science and society.”

All of these issues have come to a head again at the six-month mark of the March. They also come at a time of increasing politicization of science with the Trump administration rolling back environmental protections, deleting references to climate change from websites and pushing the travel ban, which inherently harms scientists and collaborations.
Advertisement

It’s a time when civil society, including scientists, should in theory be more engaged than ever with these issues. But the March doesn’t appear to have seized that opportunity, leaving the letter signatories and others frustrated.
After the March, organizers coordinated a week of intense planning to figure out what was next. The national organization’s social media channels kept tweeting and posting but the site wasn’t updated and until recently, still including information on the Washington, D.C. march route itself, according to Weinberg.
While the group drafted proposals in the early summer based on planning sessions and a listening tour, it’s unclear what’s happened with them since to Ying and other letter signatories. In the meantime, many local chapters have taken actions on their own, with little guidance from the national level.
Advertisement

“From my conversations, satellite march leaders have disengaged because they feel time and effort to shape the organization post-march has been ignored,” Aaron Huertas, the former national communications lead for the March who also signed the letter, told Earther. “Unfortunately, the national organization has left a lot of that momentum on the table and it has withered because they haven’t approached it from a grassroots level.”
Despite the unrest, the March for Science still has the power to make an impact in the science community and the letter’s signatories believe the letter can be part of that process.
“The systemic communications issues, sidelining, all this is something you’ll find anywhere,” Ying said. “But knowing it is such a common problem, we should be able to talk about it openly and improve our movement going forward.”
Advertisement

Ying and Huertas both also advocated for the local chapters of the March to have a greater say in what comes next, and that there are already examples of what that could look like. The Houston chapter, for example, is putting on an event to help schools and donate blood in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. Ying said the national organization could make a meaningful impact by helping financially support events like this in other local chapters and having a clearer message.
“We never felt like we had a single point of contact at the national level,” Sasha Luks-Morgan, a PhD student at the University of Utah who helped organize the Salt Lake City march, told Earther. “Watching all of the debates about the importance of diversity from afar was extremely disheartening. It felt like the national organizers could never decide who they were, or what they wanted to do.”
The national organization could also make some headway if it chooses to wade into the politics, an area it has tried to avoid by broad messaging about advocating for science. But that message may be falling on deaf ears on the right.
Advertisement

Matthew Motta, a political science PhD candidate at the University of Minnesota, told Earther science—specifically rejecting science and expertise around issues like climate change—was on the minds of Republican voters in 2016 but it wasn’t for Democrats. Motta’s research shows that the March for Science may have polarized opinions on science further, with liberals becoming more supportive of science and scientists while conservatives became more distrustful of experts (though interestingly, not science itself).
Increasing polarization isn’t exactly ideal, but Motta said his findings show that  the door could be open for March organizers to play a role in lifting up Democratic candidates in 2018 midterms.
“We see this growth of scientists and academics running for office happening now,” Motta said. “That’s an interesting development showing there’s this express link between science and politics. So if the March for Science can say things like throw your support behind these specific candidates, it could make a dent.”
Advertisement

It’s still a big tbd if the March for Science goes down that road even as other groups ramp up their actions to support scientists and advocate for equality. That includes the aforementioned 500 Women Scientists, as well as groups like 314 Action that have sprung up to support scientists running for office, and Science for the People, which focuses on the links between social justice and science. The March may have lost its opportunity to be the center of the burgeoning movement of scientists trying to shape policy, but it still has the chance to be a part of it. And the movement will go on regardless.
This post was updated to include comments from the Sasha Luks-Morgan, one of the Salt Lake City march organizers.


Here’s the thing about quantum mechanics: it works on Earth, but how do we know that it works elsewhere—like in space? That requires testing it over and over again, building wild experiments that send particles all over the planet. After some new results, things still seem to check out.
A key property of quantum mechanics—the physics theory of the smallest modica of matter—is that the tiniest stuff can take on both wave and particle properties simultaneously. One physicist named John Wheeler devised a thought experiment decades ago to prove this. A team of physicists reenacted Wheeler’s experiment between Earth and a satellite, once again extending our understanding of quantum physics to outer space.
Advertisement

“We search not for new predictions, but new insight,” study author Paolo Villoresi from the University of Padua told Gizmodo.
Villoresi’s team used the Matera Laser Ranging Observatory (MLRO) in Italy, along with a special satellite, to perform Wheeler’s experiment. Essentially, they were hoping to determine whether light decides immediately to chose its identity as a wave or a particle, or if light takes on the properties of both simultaneously until an experimenter actually makes a measurement.
The experiment itself is fairly complex, but here’s a simpler analogue. Imagine standing against the back wall in a square room with mirrors on the left and right wall. If you point one laser pointer at the left wall and another at the right wall, you’d see two spots on the back wall—the laser is acting like a particle. But then you put a special semi-transparent mirror in the way of the lasers where you’d expect them to cross paths after bouncing off of the walls. The mirror directs both beams to both spots, but if done properly, only one spot will appear. Some of the light will cancel out and some will become brighter, because waves cancel or add together based on their position relative to one another.
Wheeler realized that, if sometime after you turn the laser on, the weird mirror suddenly appears,  you can determine whether the laser photons decided to be waves or particles beforehand based on what the back wall looked like. This time around, the physicists basically recreated that strange room, except they sent the light to space before it hit the special mirror—and the sending of the light into space is what was new. The experimenters once again observed the simultaneous wave and particle nature of light. This research now appears in Science Advances.
One researcher, Sandu Popescu from the University of Bristol, felt that this experiment primarily confirms things we already know, but for distances we’ve yet to measure. He cautioned that deviations from expectations are unlikely to show up. “If there is any change at all, one would expect only extremely small deviations; checking for them is probably well beyond the capability of these pioneering new experiments,” he told Gizmodo in an email. “Hence, from this point of view there is not too much surprise in what the experiments showed, but, again, these are just the very first steps in what is a very exciting new direction.”
Still, this experiment is part of a larger force of technological progress in the field, in the wake of other experiments testing quantum mechanics on huge distances like China’s Micius satellite.  For now, said Popescu, the excitement surrounds the fact that researchers can build these new tools to gut check simple, well-established phenomena. “I expect however that soon these tools will be used for far more interesting and useful tasks,” he said.
So, quantum mechanics has once again passed another test, this one in the works since 2003, said Villoresi. Quantum mechanics still seems to work, even as it crosses into the depths of space and through the weirdness of differing gravity.
[Science Advances]


The Information Technology Industry Council (ITI)—a Washington D.C.-based lobby group that boasts Google, Amazon, and Microsoft among its many clients—is telling governments to think twice about establishing laws to regulate AI. But given mounting safety, ethical, and social justice concerns, is that such a good idea?
On Tuesday, ITI released its “AI Policy Principles,” in which the lobby group outlined “specific areas where industry, governments, and others can collaborate, as well as specific opportunities for public-private partnership.” In the new document, ITI acknowledged the need for the tech sector to promote the responsible development and use of AI, while calling upon governments to support, incentivize, and fund AI research efforts. But as for letting governments take a peek at an ITI client’s source code, or enact  laws  to steer the safe and ethical development of AI, that’s something it’s a bit less enthused about.
Advertisement

“We also encourage governments to evaluate existing policy tools and use caution before adopting new laws, regulations, or taxes that may inadvertently or unnecessarily impede the responsible development and use of AI,” notes ITI in its new list of AI principles. “This extends to the foundational nature of protecting source code, proprietary algorithms, and other intellectual property. Failure to do so could present a significant cyber risk.”
According to its mandate, ITI seeks to “encourage all governments around the world—including the US government—to develop policies, standards, and regulations that promote innovation and growth for the tech industry.” It represents some of the heaviest hitters in the tech sector, including Amazon, Facebook, Google, IBM, and Microsoft, while claiming to be “the global voice of the tech sector” and “a catalyst for preparing an AI world.”
ITI’s document is timely given just how important AI is starting to become, both in terms of its burgeoning influence on our lives (whether it be a photo-sorting app or an algorithm that invents new medicines), and in the global economy (ITI estimates that AI will add at least $7 trillion to the global economy by 2025). But it’s also timely given the recent calls for oversight and regulation. As Bloomberg reporters Gerrit De Vynck and Ben Brody write:
Big tech companies, and their software, are coming under more scrutiny in the wake of news that Russian-sponsored accounts used social networks to spread discord and try to influence the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Algorithms designed by Facebook, Twitter Inc. and Google have also been criticized for increasing political polarization by giving people the type of news they already agree with, creating so-called “filter bubbles.”
And the concerns don’t stop there. Developers are starting to be criticized for allowing their AI systems to adopt human biases and prejudices (a recent Princeton study, for example, showed that some AI systems are sexist and racist). There’s also uncertainty about how AI will contribute to technological unemployment, automated warfare, and computer hacking. And there’s still no consensus on the specific ethical or moral codes that need to be imbued into these systems.
There’s also the frightening potential, as thinkers like Elon Musk, Stephen Hawking, and others have pointed out, for something to go horribly wrong with AI. As the recent AI breakthrough by Google-owned DeepMind demonstrated, a fast takeoff event, in which AI evolves into a superintelligent form, may happen relatively quickly and without warning, thus introducing catastrophic—and possibly existential—threats.
As all of this is happening, it shouldn’t come as a surprise that some concerned observers are calling for the government to step in. Musk has warned that governments need to implement regulations “before it’s too late,” and that it’s only after things get out of hand that we tend to act. Two years ago, the White House implemented a preliminary AI strategy, saying AI needs to be ethical, that it must augment, and not replace, humans, and that everyone should have a chance to participate in the development of these systems. But as for formal regulations, the White House said it’s still premature. As former US president Obama told Wired last year, “Most people aren’t spending a lot of time right now worrying about the Singularity—they are worrying about ‘Well, is my job going to be replaced by a machine?’”
Patrick Lin, director of the Ethics + Emerging Sciences Group at California Polytechnic State University, says that regulating new technologies is always a delicate balancing act.
Advertisement

“If you set regulation too early, then you may be betting on the wrong standards, and that would be terrible for commercialization, which is important,” Lin told Gizmodo. “The same problem exists with setting too many or unnecessary regulations; they can create barriers to innovation. But commercialization isn’t the only value at stake here; public safety is another value in the equation. So, if there’s little or no regulation for technologies that can have serious impact on our lives—from self-driving cars to AI systems that make criminal sentencing and bank lending decisions—then that will be bad for society. It’s a mistake to have a knee-jerk reaction either way, reflexively for or against regulation. Each technology is different and needs to be considered carefully on its own merits.”
Lin says this conversation is currently happening in regards to autonomous vehicles, with one camp arguing that regulatory standards will put manufacturers on the same page about safety-critical functions (which would protect the industry from some liability), with the other camp saying we don’t know enough to start forging standards.
“A middle path between no regulation and state regulation is to let industry regulate itself, which is the ITI approach,” says Lin. “But this is far from ideal as well: it’s letting the fox guard the henhouse. There’s no teeth to enforce self-regulations if a company breaks rank; there may be even less transparency than with government regulators; and many other problems.”
Advertisement

Currently, the US has no federal agency dedicated to regulating or monitoring AI, and it’ll probably be a while before we see anything like that (if ever). In the meantime, it’ll be up to various groups, both inside and outside the government, to monitor developments in AI, such as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (to oversee development of autonomous vehicles) and the Department of Homeland Security (to monitor cybersecurity threats). Some private individuals and companies have created their own groups, such as Musk’s OpenAI initiative and Google’s DeepMind Ethics & Society group. But as Lin points out, there’s a “having your cake and eat it, too” aspect to self-regulation.
“On one hand, industry (correctly) says that AI is going to be this game-changing, super-revolutionary thing, but on the other hand, they often tell us not to worry about it, that they have it handled,” he said. “Worse, because the AI industry is so fragmented and full of start-ups—or even individuals without formal education or professional training, working from their basements—you couldn’t possibly get them all on board with your self-imposed regulations, whereas government regulations can use the full force of law to achieve compliance.”
Lin says that self-regulation may be better than no regulation or uninformed regulation, especially when it’s about a technology that could cause major problems for society. As examples, he points to fake news, dieselgate, biased decision systems, and so on.
Advertisement

Sara Wachter-Boettcher, author of Technically Wrong: Sexist Apps, Biased Algorithms, and Other Threats of Toxic Tech, says she’s happy to see an acknowledgement of the problem and development of shared principles, but the underlying message to her seems to be, “trust us, we’re working on it.”
“I would ask, what evidence do we have that they’ve got a handle on removing bias from AI? Why should we trust tech companies when we see examples of them embedding bias into software, or launching products with unintended consequences, every day?,” Wachter-Boettcher told Gizmodo. “I understand that it’s not as simple as lifting the curtain and letting the public look at the code, but there needs to be agreed-upon and enforced levels of transparency and accountability. While industry says it’s afraid of slowing down innovation, I think the rest of us should be a lot more worried about the real risk of flying headfirst into even more inequality, bias, and unintended harm.”
In an email to Gizmodo, Jaan Tallinn, the co-founder of Skype, said “we need regulation eventually, but first we need more research into what a positive and effective regulation should look like.”
Advertisement

And indeed, those arguing for regulations are having some difficulty articulating what actually needs regulating, and how it should be implemented and enforced. Thankfully, however, these conversations have started and the frameworks for AI regulation are starting to emerge.
As Tallinn noted, we’re going to need regulations eventually. The self-serving principles set out by ITI can be seen as pre-emptive attack to delay the inevitable, and to protect its clients from what it sees as meddlesome and potentially costly intrusions.
And self-serving it is; it can hardly be said, for example—and as stated in the new list of principles—that the ITI clientele could use some additional financial support from the government. As Oxford philosopher Nick Bostrom wrote last year, “Great resources are devoted to making [progress in AI] happen, with major (and growing) investments from both industry and academia in many countries.” At the same time, investments “in long-term AI safety...remains orders of magnitude less than investment in increasing AI capabilities.” That ITI did not list the funding of AI safety initiatives by industry, government, and private sources as an “AI principle” is as problematic as it is revealing. Moreover, it’s not immediately obvious that profit-driven companies with cranky shareholders in the background are in any way interested in constraints imposed by outside forces, or in voluntarily contributing to the public good. Regulations and government oversight exists in the absence of pro-social forces within the overarching capitalist framework.
Advertisement

“We can hope that corporate self-interest will align with public interests, but that is a giant leap of faith, and many companies in ITIC don’t exactly have a great track record at winning public trust,” Lin told Gizmodo. “It’s important to remember that they’re not in the business of protecting the public or promoting democracy—their business is business. When profit motives and humanitarian motives collide, take a wild guess which one usually wins.”
Note: this post was updated to include the comments made by Sara Wachter-Boettcher.
[Bloomberg]


The genome editing technology CRISPR revolutionized genetic engineering by allowing scientists to cut and paste tiny snippets of DNA with more precision than ever before. Now, one of the groups responsible for that technology has harnessed the power of CRISPR to also edit RNA, a molecule that, like DNA, is essential in the coding, regulation, and expression of genes. This development could eventually allow scientists to alter the expression of genes in the human body without having to change the genome itself.
“Editing at the level of RNA has several advantages,” Feng Zhang, a scientist at the Broad Institute and senior author on a new paper published today in Science, told Gizmodo. “It’s more flexible than making a permanent change to the DNA, which has important implications for therapeutic use, and it allows you to study and control a wide range of cellular processes, such as splicing, mRNA modification [and] signaling cascades.”
Advertisement

Along with DNA and proteins, RNA is one of life’s vital macromolecules, involved in both protein synthesis and the transmission of genetic information. In a cell, genetic information flows from DNA to RNA and then to proteins, with the RNA acting as a sort of arbitrar between the two. In recent years, though, our understanding of the role RNA plays has vastly expanded. Defective RNA, rather than DNA, has also been implicated as the source of some human diseases, including some cancers.
To edit RNA, scientists needed to create a new editing system. There are many different CRISPR enzymes, and most CRISPR genome engineering systems rely on one called Cas9. The RNA editing system developed by Zeng and his colleagues relies on a different enzyme, Cas13b. The system allows researchers to change a single nucleoside, or RNA letter, in an RNA chain in mammalian cells. They’re calling the system RNA Editing for Programmable A to I Replacement, or “REPAIR.”
Where the REPAIR system could be a game-changer is in allowing scientists to alter disease-causing mutations without actually permanently changing a person’s genetic code. By correcting problematic mutations to the letters that encode RNA, scientists could potentially reverse mutations without causing permanent change to the genome, since RNA degrades naturally over time.
“This is a significant advance since it adds another dimension to [research] and editing capabilities,” said Eric Topol, a geneticist at the Scripps Research Institute, in an interview with Gizmodo. “It will help in determining which genes are essential, and especially the function of non-coding RNA which is often so elusive, difficult to understand. On the medical side the advantage is temporal intervention since RNA editing is transient and reversible—many medical conditions might benefit from such a specific timed, short-term editing process.”
Of course, Topol added, all this is theoretical—so far it has only been tested on human cells in the lab, and not on actual human beings.
The new technique does have some serious limitations. For one, explained Zhang,  they’ve only figured out how to use the system to make a single base change. The system is only able to reverse Gs that have mutated to become As, a mutation tied to diseases including Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Parkinson’s disease.
Advertisement

“Although very common in genetic disease, [it] is only one of the possible 12 nucleotide edits [i.e. base changes] that can be made,” he said. “We would like develop additional base editors to expand the suite of tools available.”
More interesting, perhaps, is the way in which RNA editing could reframe the ethical debate around gene editing. Many concerns stem from the fact that altering someone’s genome is permanent; an edit that comes with unintended consequences could last forever, and even be passed down through generations. For some diseases, though, editing RNA could offer a workaround.


The prizes, the lights, the sounds, and a quick-talking barker make it hard to resist playing carnival games, but is every game a fool’s bet? In his latest video, Mark Rober, an ex-NASA JPL engineer, breaks down the science of what makes some of these games so challenging, and others near impossible to win.
For instance, the regulation height of a basketball hoop is 10 feet off the ground, but Mark found the hoops at his local carnival were actually 11 feet tall, which would throw off even an NBA star. As for games that are almost impossible to win? Don’t bother trying to shoot the star off a paper target with a BB gun. You’ll have physics and the laws of the universe working against you ever winning that stuffed bear you’re eyeing.
[YouTube]



Physicist Albert Einstein, one of history’s greatest minds, has been proven right in the long term about a lot of things, like the continued success of his theory of general relativity to aspects of that theory which eluded detection for decades, like the existence of gravitational waves. Now he’s been proven right on his split decision to jot down some stuff on a piece of paper instead of giving a messenger a cash tip.
Per the Washington Post, two short pieces of advice Einstein wrote for a messenger while on a 1922 lecture tour in Japan have sold for a combined $1.8 million at Jerusalem auction house Winner’s Auctions and Exhibitions. The seller claimed that at the time, Einstein had recently won the Nobel Prize in physics, and was “impressed but also embarrassed by the publicity” while staying at the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo. He also didn’t have any loose change, so Einstein wrote down two pieces of life advice for the messenger in lieu of a tip and told the messenger the notes would probably be worth more in the long run.

At the time, Einstein was quickly becoming one of the most famous men in the world—though his esteem would only grow, with his later legacy including his work on quantum mechanics and somewhat infamously the atomic bomb. According to the Post, he left his papers to the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
Advertisement

Maybe Einstein meant his advice would be more valuable in a non-financial sense, but the auction still made bank. One of the notes, which the Post reported was written in German on hotel stationary and sold for $1.56 million, is the one in which Einstein laid out his purported theory of happiness. The physicist wrote, “A calm and modest life brings more happiness than the pursuit of success combined with constant restlessness.” It’s pretty good advice!
The other note said “When there’s a will there’s a way,” an aphorism that Einstein definitely did not come up with, and thus sold for a considerably smaller $240,000. Which, fair.
According to the Post, both the seller and the buyer chose to remain anonymous.
Before you get any bright ideas, you’re not Einstein and you have to leave a cash tip. Sorry.
[Washington Post]


Think you’re having a bad day? Check out this bear and his impossibly swollen tongue. Alarmed by the bear’s predicament, an international team of experts were asked to perform an emergency procedure, giving the poor animal a new lease on life.
The bear’s name is Nyan htoo, which means “bright,” and he, along with his brother, are currently living as rescue cases in a Myanmar monastery. Last year, the monks noticed that something weird was going on with Nyan htoo’s tongue, as it was starting to get freakishly large. They called in some local vets who decided to operate and remove some excess tissue, but the swelling came back and got even worse.Needless to say, the enlarged tongue began to affect the bear’s quality of life. Nyan htoo was still able to play and wrestle with his brother, but the tongue became so swollen that it started to drag along the floor. He would often bite down on it by accident, and it got so heavy that he had to rest his head on the cage bars for additional support.
By June 2017, an international team of experts was called in to address the deteriorating situation, a team that included animal welfare expert and veterinary surgeon Heather Bacon of the University of Edinburgh’s Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, Caroline Nelson, a veterinary nurse at the Animals Asia Bear Rescue Centre in Vietnam, and Romain Pizzi from Wildlife Surgery International. The effort was funded by the Winton Foundation for the Welfare of Bears and Free the Bears.
The team traveled to Myanmar where they worked with local vets to carry out a tongue amputation. Working for three hours in soaring temperatures, the team managed to remove 6.6 pounds (3 kilograms) of tissue. It’s been several months since the procedure, and Nyan htoo—with a significantly reduced tongue—is doing well.
“This was a really unusual medical condition—never before seen in any species of bear—but we weren’t about to give up on Nyan htoo,” noted Nelson in a release. “Now he will be able to eat much more comfortably, sleep in more natural positions and move more freely for the rest of his life.”
The veterinary team think the swelling was caused by a tropical disease known as Lymphatic filariasis, or elephantiasis. It’s a parasitic disease that’s transmitted by mosquitoes, and it’s the first time it’s been documented in a bear. For humans, Lymphatic filariasis is a major headache, causing intense swelling of the scrotum in men (a condition called hydrocele). The US Centers for Disease Control says it’s a “leading cause of permanent disability worldwide, and that communities “frequently shun and reject women and men disfigured by the disease.”
Thankfully for Nyan htoo, his ordeal is over, and he can get back to wrestling with his brother.
[University of Edinburgh]


Veteran astronaut Paul J. Weitz has died at the age of 85. Among his many accomplishments, Weitz served as a pilot aboard the Skylab space station, commanded the first flight of the Space Shuttle Challenger, and logged nearly 800 total hours in space.
Weitz died on Monday, October 23 in Flagstaff, Arizona. The retired astronaut had been diagnosed with myelodysplastic syndrome, a type of blood cancer. He will be remembered as one of the most accomplished astronauts to slip on a spacesuit, having contributed to the seminal Skylab-2 mission, the Space Shuttle program, and as a NASA administrator.

He was born on July 25, 1932 in Pennsylvania where he also attended university. He served for a year aboard a US destroyer before attending flight training, earning his pilot’s license in September 1956. Weitz served in various naval squadrons, amassing more than 7,700 hours flying time, of which 6,400 hours were logged in jet aircraft. In April 1966, he was selected to join NASA as an astronaut.
Advertisement

Weitz was a pilot on the crew of Skylab-2 (SL-2)—the very first Skylab mission to have an active crew. From May 25 to June 22, 1973, the crew established what was then a world record for a single mission, logging 672 hours and 49 minutes aboard the pioneering space station (doubling the previous record).
But the Skylab mission was memorable for another reason as well; a shield designed to protect the station from overheating and collisions with small meteorites had torn loose during lift-off. NASA decided to delay the flight so that Weitz, along with two crewmembers, could practice repairs on the ground. The BBC explains what happened next:
The astronauts eventually launched on 25 May and approached Skylab in their Apollo command module. Positioning their spacecraft near a jammed solar panel on Skylab, Weitz opened the Apollo module’s airlock and extended a 3m (10ft)-long pole designed to free the component.
He tugged hard at the solar panel, while Joe Kerwin held him by the ankles.
“We thought maybe we’d just break it loose. So we got down near the end of the solar array and I got a hold of it with the shepherd’s crook,” Mr Weitz said in an interview with NASA in 2000. “But what we really hadn’t thought about was, in heaving on it, trying to break the thing free, what I was doing, in effect, I was pulling the command module... in toward the workshop....Also, surprising in a totally weightless environment, I was moving the workshop some, too, because we could see its thrusters firing to maintain its attitude... So it made for some dicey times.”
It was clear that the array wasn’t going to budge, so the astronauts went back inside the command module.
Not only did this initial attempt fail, the effort consumed a significant amount of Skylab’s maneuvering fuel to keep it steady. Two weeks later, another spacewalk proved successful. Astronauts Charles Conrad and Joseph Kerwin managed to deploy the solar panel structure, but the sudden movement caused the astronauts to be flung from Skylab into space—saved only by their tethers. In total, Weitz logged two hours and 11 minutes of spacewalk time during the mission.
As an interesting side note, it’s very likely that, had NASA extended the Apollo Missions, Weitz would have been sent to the Moon, possibly on Apollo 20 (which never happened).
Ten years after Skylab, and at the age of 51, Weitz was designated the commander of STS-6—the maiden voyage of the Space Shuttle Challenger, which launched from Kennedy Space Center, Florida, on April 4, 1983. During the mission, Weitz’s crew performed various experiments, recorded lightning in the Earth’s atmosphere, deployed a satellite, and tested equipment in preparation for future spacewalks. The mission lasted 120 hours, bringing Weitz’s total time in space time to 793 hours. Tragically, the Challenger was destroyed during liftoff on January 28, 1986.
After calling it quits as an astronaut, Weitz served as Deputy Director of the Johnson Space Center, finally retiring from NASA service in May 1994.
[NASA I, II, NPR, BBC]


The common understanding of diabetes mellitus includes two types: type one and type two. But there’s a third type that’s been around for a while you may not have even heard of—and some doctors think it’s being misdiagnosed.
Type 3c diabetes, or “Diabetes of the Exocrine Pancreas,” is a third type caused by pancreatic damage. But a recent study found that doctors were likely misdiagnosing this form of diabetes as type 2. But the two require different treatment.
Advertisement

“Several drugs used for type 2 diabetes, such as gliclazide, may not be as effective in type 3c diabetes,” Andrew McGovern from the University of Surry wrote in The Conversation. “Misdiagnosis, therefore, can waste time and money attempting ineffective treatments while exposing the patient to high blood sugar levels.”
Scientists have recognized other types of diabetes aside from type-1 (the body destroys its own insulin-producing cells) or type-2 (the body can’t make enough insulin) for a long time. Back in 2008, researchers worried that type 3c had been under- and misdiagnosed. A new study, published recently in the journal Diabetes Care, adds further evidence to that worry after a search through millions of health records in the United Kingdom.
The researchers found over 30,000 adult-onset cases of diabetes, and found 559 occurred after pancreatic disease. Despite the link between pancreatic disease and type 3c diabetes, 88 percent of those cases were still diagnosed with the more common type of adult-onset diabetes, type 2 diabetes and only 3 percent diagnosed as type 3c—implying at least some level of misdiagnosis. Those with diabetes following their pancreatic disorder generally had worse control over their blood sugar and required more insulin.
Obviously this is an observational study based on some assumptions, so there isn’t proof of misdiagnosis. Additionally, the implied type 3 diagnoses made up a tiny fraction of total adult onset cases, though more common than type 1. The results still concerned McGovern. “Our findings highlight the urgent need for improved recognition and diagnosis of this surprisingly common type of diabetes,” he wrote.
The lack of recognition is clear. Despite publishing the study in one of their journals, the American Diabetes Association does not mention diabetes types aside from 1, 2, and diabetes associated with pregnancy on their website. They did not return a request for comment. Diabetes UK does mention other types, though not explicitly cases following pancreatic disease. Still, “It’s essential that all people with diabetes receive the correct diagnosis, so that they have access to the right care and treatment to manage their condition effectively, and reduce their risk of complications,” said Douglas Twenefour, Diabetes UK Deputy Head of Care in a statement passed to Gizmodo.
What does this mean for you? Well, if you’re concerned you’ve been misdiagnosed, perhaps show your doctor McGovern’s article. McGovern wrote: “Correctly identifying the type of diabetes is important as it helps the selection of the correct treatment.”
[Diabetes Care via The Conversation]
Update 10/24/17 5:50PM: The American Diabetes Association passed along their Standards of Medical Care for 2017, which includes a one mention of “diseases of the exocrine pancreas” under “specific types of diabetes due to other causes.”


For a movie about a global weather apocalypse, Geostorm is disastrously boring, but its weather control technology deserves your brief attention. It is uniquely ridiculous!
Sadly, the premise is more relevant than ever. In Geostorm, humanity never got its shit together to address global warming, but thankfully, scientists figured out how to build a network of satellites that can zap extreme weather events out of existence before they do any harm. This arrangement works out fine until something (or someone?!!) causes the satellite network to malfunction. Eventually, all hell breaks loose. The mother of all extreme weather events—a geostorm!—starts laying waste to cities around the world with tornadoes, tsunamis, killer cold spells and scorching fires. Yet, for most of the film, scientists stare at computer screens.
Advertisement

There is a nugget of interesting science at the heart of this ill-conceived movie. While Geostorm’s weather control tech is very bogus (more on that in a sec), the idea of a large-scale, technological intervention to chill out Earth’s climate is not. This concept, called geoengineering, has been around for a few decades, but until recently it was confined to the scientific fringes. As the mere existence of a film like Geostorm demonstrates, geoengineering  has started to go mainstream.
“I think up until recently, geoengineering was considered a fringe topic, [something] people on the edges of mainstream science talked about,” Ken Caldeira, a climate scientist at the Carnegie Institute for Science who has been involved with geoengineering conversations since the early 2000s, told Gizmodo. “Now in terms of science, it’s been normalized.”
A variety of geoengineering concepts have been proposed. They run the gamut from low tech and immediately doable schemes, like dumping a bunch of iron in the ocean to stimulate the growth of carbon-sucking phytoplankton, to more advanced, science fictional ideas, like space-based solar reflectors. Perhaps the most popular idea right now is solar engineering, or injecting a bunch of tiny particles into Earth’s stratosphere to reflect incoming sunlight, just like volcanic eruptions do. A group of scientists at Harvard University are even planning to field test this idea in a (very small, very harmless) experiment sometime next year.
The problem with any and all geoengineering concepts is that conducting a global experiment on Earth’s climate system could have unintended consequences, and we’ve only got one shot to get it right. Stimulating the growth of phytoplankton may throw the marine food web out of whack; filling the stratosphere with solar-reflective sulfate particles could mess with Earth’s fragile ozone layer.
We’re not doing such a great job solving the whole climate change problem, which is why some…
The other, more fundamental issue, is that geoengineering is like putting a bandaid on a wound, while doing nothing to treat the underlying cause of illness—in this case, the ten billion tons of fossil carbon we spew into the air every year. Some social scientists fear that the mere act of studying geoengineering will cause politicians to become even more complacent than they already are about addressing climate change.
Advertisement

With all of this in mind, a movie about the dangers of technological climate interventions could in theory serve a valuable role, edifying the public on a nuanced scientific topic. Geostorm doesn’t seem to be that movie.
“One could argue that having complete nonsense [like Geostorm] is useful because it at least creates a discussion about these issues,” Caldeira said. “But that good aspect is probably outweighed by the misinformation.”
By misinformation, Caldeira means the technology at the heart of Geostorm, a network of satellites that can disrupt localized extreme weather events from space. This is laughably implausible.
Advertisement

“This idea that you can do something in one place and most of the effects can stay localized to that place is a misunderstanding of how the climate system works,” Caldeira said, noting that Earth’s atmosphere causes everything to mix. The energies involved with disrupting extreme weather events would also be mind-boggling. “It’s much more plausible that you would just get fried by an orbiting laser weapon,” Caldeira noted.
Even localized control of regular weather, through schemes like cloud seeding, has only seen limited success despite decades of research. As Chris, an air quality meteorologist who preferred to be identified on a first name only basis, told Gizmodo, “We just have recently gotten much better at forecasting the weather, never mind controlling it.”
You might (very rightly) argue that nobody’s going to a B-list disaster movie for rigorous science. But surely there isn’t any harm in suggesting the government is capable of a massive weather control project?
Meteorologists might disagree with you on that.
“When I tell strangers my occupation, about 1 in 7 ask me if the government can control the weather,” Thomas Jenkins, a meteorologist for the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Smoke Management Program, told Gizmodo. Based on responses I received from about a dozen meteorologists yesterday, Jenkins’ experience is very much the norm.
Advertisement

“I’ve fielded everything from inquiries and complaints about ‘chemtrails’ to requests for rain over a certain plot of farm land,” Chris said, adding that he thinks there’s “an innate fear in some of what the government is doing.”
Aaron Perry, a meteorologist with NBC Boston, told Gizmodo he “definitely” thinks public fears over weather control and geoengineering have grown in recent years. “Mainstream news has been reporting on current hot-button topics like fracking and cloud-seeding for the last 10+ years. There’s an implied assumption...that goes something like, ‘if they are currently doing this, they MUST be able to do this [more complex technological feat.]”
“There is fear that [this movie] will make the already large numbers of conspiracy believers even larger,” TV meteorologist Dan Satterfield told Gizmodo. Indeed, the National Weather Service was bracing for an influx of queries about weather control when Geostorm launched last week, even sending out an email reminding meteorologists how best to respond.

So far, however, those fears appear unfounded. An NWS spokesperson told Motherboard that as of Saturday, the agency has received zero queries about weather modification that referenced Geostorm. Gizmodo can confirm that as of today, that number is still zero.
Advertisement

Perhaps Geostorm’s 11% rating on Rotten Tomatoes is keeping even the conspiracy theorists at bay.


The Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 investigation has been reopened with the help of a private firm. Its incomplete story has refused to offer closure to the families of its 239 victims and has sparked conspiracy theories. But scientists have continued investigating the impact since it occurred three and a half years ago. It’s inspired one team to create a new way of locating large disturbances in the ocean, like earthquakes, meteors—and even striking airplanes.
Scientists generally discount gravity when studying the speed of sound in water. But a few cases see gravity rearing its head, like low frequency waves created by some ocean disturbances. Adding the effects back in allows researchers to turn the problem around—rather than creating a wave, they can use the mathematics to listen to the wave and then find the place where it began.
Advertisement

Usama Kadri, applied mathematician at the University of Cardiff, previously discussed these ideas with the Australian Transport Safety Bureau. He thinks they have far more applications, according to the paper published today in the journal Scientific Reports. That includes “locating falling meteorites to detecting landslides, snowslides, storm surges, and rogue waves.” Perhaps they could even be used to “detect movements in Earth’s interior and plate tectonics.”
The researchers began with an experiment using weights dropped in a large pool to confirm how an object smacking the water would look in a hydrophone. They compared this to the data they took from Indian Ocean hydrophones to find examples of impacts and seismic events from the real world. They confirmed that the waves seem to carry information about the impact with them, most importantly its location, that could be decoded by the mathematics of the so-called acoustic-gravity wave theory.
The researchers didn’t find the airplane, but signals did show up in Indian Ocean hydrophones the day of the disappearance—one in a reasonable location.  Unfortunately they were weak signals, leading to “a relatively large uncertainty in the locations.” The paper leaves potential scenarios up to “search experts to discuss.” Which they probably will.
“It is almost inconceivable and certainly societally unacceptable in the modern aviation era ... for a large commercial aircraft to be missing and for the world not to know with certainty what became of the aircraft and those on board,” the ATSB wrote, reports Jalopnik. Though no one, neither Kadri nor the ATSB, wants to falsely raise the hopes of the victims’ families.
There are limitations to most recent experiment—after all, it was done in a tank, and not the ocean. Other researchers are impressed with Kadri’s work as we’ve previously reported. But they cautioned that more modeling, both of the airplane striking the ocean and of the effects of the ocean floor itself, are required.
But this, combined with new maps of the sea floor, has shown just how much science has come out of the flight’s disappearance.
[Scientific Reports, Time]


A re-analysis of a 50,000 year old Neanderthal skull shows that, in addition to enduring multiple injuries and debilitations, this male individual was also profoundly deaf. Yet he lived well into his 40s, which is quite old by Paleolithic standards. It’s an achievement that could have only been possible with the help of others, according to new research.
When the remains of this older Neanderthal were discovered at Shanidar Cave in Iraqi Kurdistan in 1957, his many physical injuries and disabilities were immediately apparent. Analysis of his skull showed that he suffered a crushing blow to the head near his eye socket when he was young, likely causing some visual impairment. His right hand and forearm were missing, the result of an amputation. He likely walked with a serious gait, and he suffered from hyperostotic disease (DISH), which is associated with muscular pain and reduced mobility along the spine.
Advertisement

But a new analysis of this specimen, known as Shanidar 1, shows he had another major disability—one not noticed during earlier examinations. New research published in PLOS One reveals that the bony growths found in this Neanderthal’s ear canals would have resulted in serious hearing loss. So this Paleolithic-era hunter-gatherer, according to the updated analysis conducted by anthropologists Erik Trinkaus from Washington University in St. Louis and Sébastien Villotte of the French National Centre for Scientific Research, was profoundly deaf.
“It would have been essentially impossible for Shanidar 1 to maintain a sufficiently clear canal for adequate sound transmission,” noted the authors in the study. “He would therefore have been effectively deaf in his right ear, and he likely had at least partial CHL [conductive hearing loss] in the left ear.” Trinkaus and Villotte say it was “a serious sensory deprivation for a Pleistocene hunter-gatherer.”
Yet despite his deafness and his other physical setbacks, Shanidar 1 died between 40 and 50 years of age (based on dental analysis). By Paleolithic standards, he was an old man. The only way he could have lived to such a ripe old age is by receiving considerable help from others. “More than his loss of a forearm, bad limp and other injuries, his deafness would have made him easy prey for the ubiquitous carnivores in his environment and dependent on other members of his social group for survival,” said Trinkaus in a statement.
His inability to hear would have resulted in reduced communication and diminished social activities requiring coordination, thus making him less effective as a hunter and a forager. It would have been difficult for Shanidar 1 to learn how to fashion tools and use them, and as noted, he would have been more vulnerable to medium and large carnivores (e.g. wolves, large cats, bears).
“[A]n individual with advanced CHL would have been highly vulnerable alone in a Pleistocene foraging context,” write the researchers in their study. “For Shanidar 1, the CHL was associated with loss of function in other aspects of his biology, all of which would have compounded his need for support, even if some of the individual deficiencies by themselves would not have required such assistance.”
Advertisement

Trinkaus and Villotte says it’s not surprising that his fellow Neanderthals were able and willing to provide this level of social support. Profoundly, these extinct humans buried their dead, a funeral act that anthropologists say is indicative of social cohesion, social roles, and mutual support. What’s more, Neanderthals used pigments and feathers to modify their appearance, which the authors say is “a reflection of social identity manipulation and social cohesion.” To say Neanderthals cared for the physically impaired is therefore not a stretch.
Importantly, other examples of prehistoric social support exists in the scientific literature. A study from 2014 revealed a Neanderthal from Spain who suffered from similar hearing loss, and the remains of a five-year-old archaic human with a severe brain deformity who wasn’t rejected at birth.
Our conceptions of Neanderthals, as this new study shows, has now moved well beyond the outdated notion that they were brutish proto-humans who cowered in caves. As we’re learning, the behavioral differences between Neanderthals and modern humans are, in the words of the researchers, “modest” at best.
[PLOS One]


Using a small robotic sub, scientists from Columbia University have captured rare video of arctic jellyfish slithering along the bottom of the Chukchi Sea near Utqiaġvik, Alaska. The footage came as a complete surprise to the researchers, who weren’t expecting to see jellyfish during the Arctic winter.
The scientists’ research, published in Marine Ecology, shows that a species of large jellyfish known as Chrysaora melanaster is capable of surviving the arctic winter in its adult form, a life stage known as medusae. Prior to these observations, which were made from 2011 to 2014, scientists thought that the under sea conditions were too harsh for adult jellies during the winter months, and that this species could only survive under the arctic ice during its stage as a polyp—a formless blob that releases tiny baby medusae in the spring.

To capture the video, marine biologist Andy Juhl and his colleagues from Columbia University’s Earth Institute set off on snowmobiles from Utqiaġvik Alaska to various locations along the frozen Chukchi Sea. After drilling holes through the four-feet-plus ice, the researchers sent a small underwater vehicle into the frigid waters with a camera. To their amazement, the submersible captured haunting images of the large medusae, some of them dragging their one-foot-long tentacles behind them. The jellies use these tentacles to snatch meals off the seafloor.
Advertisement

The new paper suggests Chrysaora melanaster is capable of living in its adult form throughout the winter months, and possibly even live for years. Juhl now suspects that cold winters are actually really good for jellyfish in the medusae stage; the thick layer of sea ice may acting as a shield, protecting the jellies from turbulent waters. Meanwhile, cold water is lowering their metabolism, allowing the jellies to subsist on very little food. “Life under sea ice is like living in a refrigerator—everything slows down,” said Juhl in a statement, adding that jellyfish blooms may follow one or two years of heavy sea-ice cover because many adults survive.
Indeed, this area of Alaska is subject to dramatic variations in jellyfish numbers each year. Some years there are hardly any, and other years there are so many that fishing nets become inundated with them. The new study could tell us something about the jellyfish population dynamics that drive these cycles. On a more troubling note, warming waters caused by climate change could be bad for the northern jellies, who are benefiting from the cold waters and ice cover (unlike other jellies, who are among the greatest beneficiaries of global warming).
But there’s still one lingering question: Do these jellies sting?
“I don’t know,” said Juhl. “There aren’t that many people around there swimming to find out.”
Correction: A previous version of this article referred to Barrow, Alaska instead of Utqiaġvik, Alaksa, the now legally recognized name of the city.
[Marine Ecology]


Some numbers don’t change. These values are deeply connected to the very fabric of the Universe and our human existence. Until they aren’t, of course. Then we change them—for good reason.
Scientists around the world just recommended changes to four fundamental constants. The tiny updates are important for the most accurate and precise measurements, but will ultimately allow researchers to base standard units, like the kilogram, on things more reliable than a metal weight. The General Council of Weights and Measures will vote on these updates in November 2018, with the proposal being published in the journal Metrologia.
Advertisement

The International System of Units, or SI, still relies on The Grand K—a piece of metal—to define the kilogram. That’s great, except physical things can change over time. Instead, scientists are hoping to update our units such that they’re based on unchanging numbers, the fundamental constants. Doing so, however, requires precise definitions of the fundamental constants.
“I’m happy to see that the definitions are actually simplified considerably and based on fundamental principles of physics,” Peter Mohr, a scientist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) told Gizmodo, “Rather than on artifacts which are subject to the effects of the environment, or wear and tear.”
The four numbers are constants most physics students should be familiar with. The first is h, Planck’s constant, a tiny number that relates the energy of the smallest unit of light, the photon, to its frequency, or color. The second is e, the amount of electric charge in a single proton (or -e, the charge of the electron), not to be confused with the number you used in calculus, also called e. The third is k, the Boltzmann constant, used to relate the temperature of a gas particle to its kinetic energy. The final is NA, the Avogadro constant, the number of molecules a substance needs to make it weigh, in grams, the same as a single molecule would weigh in atomic mass units.
The researchers came to these values by making increasingly precise measurements, some as recently as this year. They agreed upon values that fall within the margin of error of as many measurements as possible, like trying to put a binder ring through a stack of mostly well-aligned hole-punched looseleaf paper.
Sure, the changes will be tiny and (thankfully) won’t require updates to past experimental results. And if you’ve done physics recently, you’ll remember that you usually don’t convert the constant to a number in your answer, you just leave the symbolic representation. But the updates are important. Rather than having to base the constants of the Universe on human-made artifacts, those hoping to make measurements will need to produce standard masses based on the universal constants.
Advertisement

“You can communicate these constants with someone on Mars and they’d be able to replicate the kilogram,” said Mohr. Other constants to be updated based on the fundamental constant updates including the kilogram, the kelvin, and the ampere according to a National Institute of Standards and Technology release.
If and when the updates are approved, these constants would be set for the foreseeable future, said, Mohr...maybe. “I would guess this is the last one for a while but history may prove me wrong.”
[Metrologia via NIST]


The Apple Watch hasn’t exactly been the breakout hit that Apple hoped it would be. Increasingly, though, Apple has been turning its attention to a market where the watch could still hit it big: insurers.
On Monday, CNBC reported that one of the nation’s largest life insurance providers, John Hancock, has partnered with Apple to offer members of its Vitality program an Apple Watch for the cost of a $25 activation fee. The Vitality program is designed to offer perks to policyholders who live healthy lifestyles. The Apple Watch is now one of those perks—as well as one of the way insurers hope policyholders will be encouraged to live healthfully.
Advertisement

This is kind of creepy for a few reasons. Knowing your personal activity stats could encourage you to stay  healthy (though some research has questioned this). But basing benefits on physical activity could inadvertently penalize people who have less time to make it to the gym, like lower-income people or new moms (and participants may wind up having to pay more than the $25 for their watch if they do not meet certain goals). Not to mention that, while you may not realize it, information  like how many steps you have taken in a day can wind up being abused or used against you in the wrong hands.
Court cases now regularly include evidence gleaned from fitness trackers.  In 2014, in a first-of-its-kind case, a Canadian law firm used Fitbit history to assist in proving a client’s personal injury claim. And in 2015, data from a Fitbit was used to undermine a woman’s rape claim. Just this year, a man’s pacemaker put him in prison for arson. Reached for comment, a spokesperson for John Hancock did not respond to a request for specific details on how much policyholder data it would have access to under the program.
“John Hancock is committed to protecting our policyholders’ personal information,” the company said in a statement, linking to its privacy policy, which does not specifically mention the Apple watch and has not been updated since the partnership announcement. “It will only be used in order to conduct business and as permitted or required by law. We will not sell information or share health data with third parties for their marketing purposes.”
It’s a good bet, though, that policyholders will be giving up some amount of otherwise private information collected by that watch.
Google, Apple, and other companies are investing heavily in health tech, hoping that devices like the Apple Watch will not only allow us to track data about our own bodies, but share it with people like doctors. In September, the FDA announced that Apple, Fitbit, Google, and others would all join a pilot program designed to speed the development of such technology.
Privacy watchdogs, though, have already raised red flags about health tracking, casting it as “medical surveillance.” John Hancock may be giving away an Apple Watch for cheap, but it’s possible its policy holders will be giving away a lot more that that.
[CNBC]


An international team of researchers has uncovered tell-tale signs of Alzheimer’s disease in dolphins, marking the first time that the age-related disorder has been detected in a wild animal.
Until very recently, scientists thought that only humans were susceptible to Alzheimer’s disease. That changed back in August of this year when researchers from Kent State University detected traces of the disease in chimps, or at least, the brains of chimps who died from natural causes at zoos and research centers. A new study published this week in Alzheimer’s & Dementia is now the first to find two key markers of the disease—protein plaques and tangles—in a wild animal, namely dolphins. This latest finding is further evidence that Alzheimer’s is not a human-specific disease, and that other animals can be used to study the dreaded condition.
Advertisement

Most animals die very shortly after the end of their fertile years, but dolphins and orca whales, like humans, tend to live past their reproductive years (cool fact: female orca whales go through menopause). This got Oxford University scientist Simon Lovestone wondering: Are dolphins, as a result of their long lives, susceptible to age-related neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer’s? To find out, he and his colleagues studied the brains of dolphins who had died naturally in the wild and whose bodies washed ashore along the Spanish coast.
The researchers found plaques of a protein called beta amyloid, along with the tangles of another protein called tau. Together, these proteins are the smoking guns of Alzheimer’s disease in humans. In healthy brains, amyloid beta breaks down and goes away, but for people with Alzheimer’s, this protein lingers, resulting in the formation of plaques between neurons. These plaques subsequently set another process in motion, whereby tau forms tangles that destabilize brain cells. Together, these two neurological disruptions produce dementia.
Importantly, this study doesn’t tell us how the dolphins may be affected by their specific version of the disease, or whether they suffer from any associated memory loss or confusion. We won’t know until we perform behavioral tests on captive dolphins—something the researchers do not advocate.
That said, the discovery points to potential causes of the disease, with altered insulin function being a common denominator. Insulin regulates the levels of sugar in the blood, setting off a complex chemical cascade known as insulin signaling. Changes in insulin signaling can cause diabetes in humans and other mammals. At the same time, however, extreme caloric restriction also affects insulin signaling, extending the lifespans of certain animals by significant amounts. In some animals, such as fruit flies and mice, caloric restriction can extend life by up to three times.
‘We think that in humans, the insulin signalling has evolved to work in a way similar to that artificially produced by giving a mouse very few calories,” said Lovestone in a statement. “That has the effect of prolonging lifespan beyond the fertile years, but it also leaves us open to diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease.”
Previously, scientists had shown that insulin resistance predicts the development of Alzheimer’s in humans, and people with diabetes are more likely to develop Alzheimer’s.
Advertisement

“But our study suggests that dolphins and orcas (who also have a long post fertility life span) are similar to humans in many ways; they have an insulin signalling system that makes them an interesting model of diabetes, and now we have shown that dolphin brains show signs of Alzheimer’s identical to those seen in people,” said Lovestone.
So while it sucks that dolphins are susceptible to Alzheimer’s, the good news is that we now have a new “model” for the disease. Future comparative analyses of dolphin and human brains with Alzheimer’s will tease out the various factors responsible for the disease, which will hopefully lead to new treatments.
[Alzheimer’s & Dementia]


We live in a universe filled with weird stuff that we don’t really understand: dark matter. Physicists have observed its spooky effects but have’t seen it directly. Even scarier: There seems to be around six times as much dark matter in the universe as regular matter.
Tonight, we’ll be broadcasting a discussion on this mysterious substance over Facebook live at 7:00 pm ET from the Gizmodo office. Joining me will be three prominent physicists: Elena Aprile, founder of the XENON dark matter experiment from Columbia University, James Beacham, physicist at the Large Hadron Collider, and Priya Natarajan, astrophysicist at Yale University. We’ll begin taking Facebook live questions beginning at 7:45 pm ET. Come back here once the event starts and we’ll drop the link in this post.
Advertisement

So what is dark matter? As far as we can tell, it’s some strange amount of mass that can interact with gravity but not with the other forces of nature, like electromagnetism. We can’t see it directly, but we’ve observed the way it warps the light of distant galaxies and causes them to rotate faster than they probably should. Experimental and theoretical physicists spend a whole lot of time and have built a whole lot of experiments to try and figure out what the heck it is.
We’re hosting the event as part of Dark Matter Day, which officially takes place on Halloween. Physics communicators around the globe are hosting events to celebrate the mysteries of dark matter with the public. Check out the Dark Matter Day events list for an event near you.
SpoOoOoOoky!!!
Watch the discussion below



Did you know a cheap red laser pointer is good for more than just annoying people at a movie theater? As YouTube’s Styropyro, aka Drake Anthony, demonstrates, by focusing the beam you can actually use it to lift and levitate tiny specs of diamond dust, similar to how Star Trek’s tractor beams seemingly work.
The science behind this experiment earned physicist Steven Chu the Nobel Prize in Physics back in 1997, but you don’t need a dedicated Stanford research lab to try it yourself. You just need roughly $20 in parts, including a lens to focus the laser diode, and a room without any air currents because the focused beam of light doesn’t have the strongest grasp on the particles it traps.

So how does a beam of light, you can’t really feel, lift an object? Anthony does a good job explaining the science in his video, but it’s an effect called Optical levitation where the momentum of photons is transferred to an object, trapping it in a beam of light. The object has to be incredibly small, less than 50 micrometers in diameter, for the experiment to work, which means that you unfortunately won’t be trapping any passing spaceships by pointing your laser pointer towards the stars.
[YouTube]


Profuse sweating can lead to embarrassing pit stains and discomfort, sure. But you are sweating sweat. This Italian patient sweats blood.
The 21-year-old patient entered a medical ward following three years of bleeding from her palms and face. She didn’t have any cuts and nothing seemed to cause or trigger her bleeding episodes. Her condition was so bad that she’d isolated herself and developed symptoms consistent with depression and panic disorder.
Advertisement

After observing the patient and treating her for her depression and anxiety, the Florentine doctors diagnosed the patient with “hematohidrosis,” the rare condition of “blood sweat.” But even to this day, doctors don’t know what causes the condition—and some are skeptical as to its existence. An analysis of the patient’s skin turned up nothing abnormal, as the researchers reported in the Canadian Medical Association Journal.
There’s a long history of blood sweat diagnoses, according to a CMAJ commentary. Mention of blood sweat occurs as far back as Aristotle in the third century, B.C., and throughout the Middle Ages. The condition has religious undertones given its association with a religious relic called the Veil of Veronica, a cloth imprinted with Jesus’ face. Still, the commentary continues, a 2012 dermatology textbook said the disorder “has not been confirmed scientifically,” though the authors of that text didn’t deny its existence.
Michelle Sholzberg, hematologist at St. Michael’s Hospital in Toronto, told the CBC the case was “most unusual.”
The author of the commentary, medical historian Jacalyn Duffin from Queen’s University in Ontario, reviewed 42 medical articles on the condition since 1880. She noticed that almost half of those articles were from the last five years, yet many still doubt the condition’s existence. “Ironically, for an increasingly secular world, the long-standing association of hematohidrosis with religious mystery may make its existence harder to accept,” she wrote.
The Italian scientists ultimately opted to treat their patient with a beta blocker (and proposed moral enhancer) called propranolol, since others had treated patients similarly in the past. This worked, but it didn’t stop the bleeding completely.
On days like this I consider myself very lucky.
[CMAJ via CBC]


You might not want anyone to read the work you put together as a university student—I sure don’t. But we’re not Stephen Hawking, world-famous physicist, whose Ph.D thesis you can now read for free online.
The University of Cambridge has made Hawking’s work, “Properties of Expanding Universes,” free for anyone, given extraordinary demand. After all, it’s the most requested item in their online Open Access repository, according to a news release. Hawking told Cambridge that he made the decision hoping to “inspire people around the world to look up at the stars and not down at their feet.”
Advertisement

People seem to like this Stephen Hawking guy. His book, A Brief History of Time, has sold ten million copies. He’s made pop culture appearances far and wide, from The Big Bang Theory to The Simpsons. He’s the subject of the Oscar-winning film, The Theory of Everything. But he’s known in science for exploring more esoteric topics in physics. Perhaps his most famous idea is “Hawking radiation,” the theory that links the mathematics of gravity with quantum physics to conclude that black holes evaporate by spitting out particles from their surface.
The thesis discusses some of the most talked-about points in physics, specifically the “implications and consequences of the expansion of the universe.” Such expansion causes difficulties to one theory of gravitation and has implications for how gravity radiates through the universe, moving its energy along as waves. It also describes the inevitability of singularities, regions of infinite density and zero volume found in the centers of black holes or the start of the universe.
These ideas continue to spark debate. Meanwhile, Hawking himself, at 75 years old, is still a living public figure despite his 50-year-log struggle with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (“Lou Gehrig’s Disease” or ALS), a disease whose victims rarely survive a decade.
The news release comes alongside increasing interest in the Open Access movement, allowing us to access published science papers for free. Open Access hasn’t been without controversy as shady scientific journals have attempted to game the system to make a quick buck. Cambridge  encourages its students to make their Ph.Ds open access when they deposit it online, according to the release.
So, if you’ve got some free time, enjoy the light reading of a preeminent physicist’s 120-page Ph.D thesis.
[Cambridge]
Update 12:ooPM: The BBC reports that Cambridge’s download website has been crashing intermittently due to the heavy traffic, lol. At least 30,000 have tried to download the PDF. Honestly, I preferred Hawking’s later stuff.


There was a time not so long ago when, for fun, or just for something to do, millions of Americans would tune in to watch non-actors eat worms for cash. It felt good, watching strangers wreck their intestines. Things might not have been going your way, but at least you weren’t competitively chewing cockroaches on primetime television.
In a sense the appeal of a show like Fear Factor was nostalgia—nostalgia, maybe, for the last iteration of our species, the one not yet trained, through wide-scale trial-and-error, to avoid eating mold, feces, etc.
Advertisement

But what did that process of trial-and-error look like? And where did it land us? In other words: Which taste, at this stage of the evolutionary game, do we find most disgusting? Most of us, happily eating our for-the-most-part non-revolting salads and panini, have no reason, or desire, to think that one over—which is why, for this week’s Giz Asks, we’ve corralled a host of taste experts to do it for you. As it turns out, “disgust” is relative—yet another of the half-million interlocking social constructs which impede our desires, enrich various wealthy profiteers and, in this particular instance, prevent us from dining on diseased rat carcasses.
Director of the University of Pennsylvania Smell and Taste Center
Disgust is a complicated issue in regards to taste.  First, most tastes are actually smells.  Taste buds only signify sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and savory (umami).  We have many more bitter receptors than sweet or other types of receptors, presumably because poisons are often bitter alkaloids.  However, when a “disgusting” agent is put into the mouth, molecules reach the olfactory receptors via the nasal pharynx retronasally.  This is why coffee  or chocolate have no taste when you hold your nose shut.  This blocks airflow from the oral cavity to the receptors.
Concentration often is involved, with agents smelling or tasting fine at low concentrations but unpleasant at high concentrations.  Context is also involved (skunk-like mercaptans can be pleasant at low concentrations but unpleasant at high concentrations, particularly if one is not told it is the odor of a skunk).  Some dog anal sac secretions smell like limburger cheese.  If you were told the odor was that of limburger cheese you would find it less disgusting than if you were told it came from the anal sacs of a beagle.  Although perhaps not the most disgusting of all odors, pyridine was described by one subject in our lab as smelling like “puke in a urinal at a carnival”.  I think most would find this a bit disgusting.  The psychological responses of people to dog anal sac secretions, however, trumps pyridine in my experience.
Professor of Language, Communication and Cultural Cognition, Center for Language Studies, Radboud University Nijmegen
The idea of tasting someone else’s vomit or feces is likely universally disgusting. Generally, however, one person’s disgusting is another’s delicacy. The French and Dutch eat horses; but for most Americans the idea of putting horsemeat in their mouths is gross. Then consider the average American eats over 50 pounds of beef per year. Why would you ever eat something sacred that provides nourishing milk? The thought horrifies Hindus. Traditionally many Europeans eat pigs, but for the 1.5 billion Muslims in the world today, this is unthinkable. The list goes on. From coagulated blood, to caterpillars, sheep brains, tuna eyes, or baboon hands: somewhere it’s a treat; elsewhere it’s stomach-churning.
Perhaps we can find the most disgusting taste if we can test people before they become enculturated. Examining infants’ preferences provides interesting insight. Babies prefer sweet, salty, and umami tastes over bitter ones; and they avert their heads, wrinkling their noses, when presented with fish, garlic or rotten odors. However, should their mothers be avid garlic eaters, then garlic odors are no longer aversive to the baby. During pregnancy, the mother imparts the flavors she is imbibing via amniotic fluid to the baby. So babies already begin developing flavor preferences before being exposed to solid foods. Early exposure is so critical that it can literally make the rotten tasty. The Chukchi and Yupik peoples who traditionally lived in the Bering Strait region of Russia and Alaska ate food whose smell would make your eyes water. They would bury whole fish or tight rolls of walrus meat and fat into the ground and let it age and ferment for months, before eating. During the Soviet-era small settlements of indigenous communities were fused into larger culturally diverse communities, and during this time people abandoned these traditional foods. Then in the post-Soviet era, some people tried to go back to their traditional ways, but the foods that were so “tastily rotten” before were no longer such a treat. Without the early exposure to the pungent aromas, people found them inedible.
So what is disgusting to taste is as much about our culture, context, and upbringing as anything else.
Rachel Herz, is a cognitive neuroscientist on the faculty of Brown University and Boston College.  She is in an expert in the senses and emotions that guide food perception and the author of The Scent of Desire, That’s Disgusting, and a new book Why You Eat What You Eat.
The most disgusting taste is bitterness.  From an ecological and evolutionary perspective, being repulsed by the taste of bitter helps to keep us alive as things that taste bitter are high in alkaloids (pH greater than 7) which tend to be poisonous.
Everyone finds the taste of a lemon peel bitter but how difficult it is for you to eat it depends on the genetics that determine the number of taste buds you have.  Supertasters have many more taste buds than non-tasters and everything taste more intense to them, especially bitter.  If you can’t abide endive and Brussel sprouts you’re probably a supertaster and if you tend to order them as sides you’re likely a non-taster. Interestingly, how sensitive you are to bitter also influences your emotional reactions.  Supertasters are less tolerant of pain and more easily angered and disgusted than non-tasters are, but non-tasters tend to score higher on traits that are associated with a psychopathic personality.  A tantalizing corollary is that criminal psychopaths are much worse at recognizing the facial expression of disgust than any other emotion and also worse at it than other violent but non-psychopathic offenders.  The hypothetical take home message—if you want to watch a gory horror movie with a friend invite the one who eats endive raw, but if you need someone to take you to the hospital you may want to call the friend who won’t eat kale.
Emeritus Professor, Cardiff University
Generally things taste disgusting because they are harmful or poisonous.  But there is another quite different and personal aspect to disgust, involving conditioned association. If a food is eaten before or during a really negative experience it can become disgusting to us. For example, people having surgery or chemotherapy are often given a surrogate meal before the start of the process. This is because we can associate the pain, discomfort or sickness with the last meal we had so it is best not to have your favorite dish under such circumstances.
I had spam fritters once as a kid when I was coming down with flu’. There wasn’t a causal connection but my brain determined there was and forever after I’ve hated spam (which is actually pretty disgusting anyway).
Professor of Psychology at Brandeis University who teaches behavioral neuroscience and studies what makes foods taste good or bad
Among neuroscientists, there is general agreement that there are only five tastes, of which only one is truly disgusting—bitterness. It stands to reason, therefore, that the bitterest available taste will turn out to be the most disgusting thing that you can (accidentally) put in your mouth.
I’d offer a specific recommendation…but if readers were to sample that recommendation, Gizmodo would find itself in a perilous legal situation. Bitterness, you see, fills us with disgust specifically because many naturally-occurring toxins are bitter. Thanks to evolution, critters that find bitter foods maximally disgusting are critters that survive, and therefore the most disgusting taste will be the taste that you taste once and then die.
Of course, despite what we scientists tell you, you know that there are many more than five flavors out there. Most of us can name five foods that are disgusting despite not being bitter, as well as bitter substances that we consider the opposite of disgusting; many people so love bitter coffee, in fact, that they will cast violent aspersions upon anyone who dares diffuse that bitterness with sugar. Where does this leave our search for the most disgusting taste?
The plurality of tastes reflects the mixing of multiple ingredients in any foodstuff, and the involvement of other senses in flavor perception (if you don’t think that smell and vision are important to flavor, try telling different Skittles™ apart without using either). The fact that one person’s dietary staple might be disgusting to someone else, meanwhile, reflects the experience-dependence of taste. Most animals are endowed with a mechanism, well known to over-indulging college Freshmen, that renders a non-bitter taste un-consumable, if that taste has proven toxic. My lifelong hatred of coconut stems from a Bad Birthday Cake Vomit Experience had when I was five years old.
This process works in reverse as well—foods that inspire feelings of well-being become favored, even if bitter. Teens learn to like beer and coffee because cool and/or sexually desirable peers like beer and coffee. Preferred bitter greens improve health. Licorice to the Dutch, vegemite to the Australian, natto to the Japanese; all substances that are disgusting to most, but rendered tasty by cultural acceptance.
And so what food “wins?” When you bring all of these factors together, what emerges as the worst-tasting foodstuff in the world?
It’s coconut. Trust me. It’s just nasty.
Do you have a burning question for Giz Asks? Email us at tipbox@gizmodo.com.


Here’s yet another sign that in the age of President Donald Trump and Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt, the foxes are feasting in the coop. According to a report in the New York Times on Saturday, former George W. Bush administration official Dr. Nancy Beck has returned from a stretch with chemical manufacturer lobbying group the American Chemistry Council to serve as a top deputy in the EPA’s toxic chemical unit.
In a confidential memo obtained by the paper, acting Office of Water assistant administrator Michael Shapiro warned Beck’s changes to how the agency tracks the health impacts of toxic perfluorooctanoic acid, which has been linked to a number of serious health conditions like cancer and birth defects, could result in “underestimation of the potential risks to human health and the environment.” It’s part of a pattern at the agency under Pruitt’s tenure; in the past few months, the EPA has backed away from bans of the pesticide chlorpyrifos, paint stripper ingredient methylene chloride, and degreasing and dry cleaning chemical trichloroethylene, all of which have been linked to serious health problems.
Advertisement

During the Bush years, the Times noted, Beck drew criticism from some coworkers who believed she was more interested in rolling back regulatory requirements for industry than maintaining a cautious approach to public safety. She became “so aggressive in second-guessing EPA scientists” that she was called to testify before the House Committee on Science and Technology, which concluded she had slowed efforts to protect drinking water supplies from rocket fuel ingredient perchlorate. Beck eventually was forced out during the first term of the Barack Obama administration.
Beck returned to the EPA in May 2017 after receiving a waiver allowing her to work for the agency despite her recent lobbying career. When the time came for the agency to implement a bipartisan overhaul of the Toxic Substances Control Act passed in the last year of the Obama administration, the Times wrote, she pressed for industry-friendly changes that undermined the whole program:
Dr. Beck then spent her first weeks on the job pressing agency staff to rewrite the standards to reflect, in some cases, word for word, the chemical industry’s proposed changes, three staff members involved in the effort said.
Specific changes Beck pushed for included strictly defining terms like “best available science” or “weight of the evidence,” which could lead to legal challenges of EPA regulations, or limiting EPA evaluation of chemicals to “intended” rather than “all” uses. Beck appears to have been remarkably successful with these efforts, and has even brought on other ACC veterans like toxicologist Michael L. Dourson.
When the Times asked for more information about the decisions, EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman—yet another American Chemistry Council alumni—shot back, “No matter how much information we give you, you would never write a fair article. The only thing inappropriate and biased is your continued fixation on writing elitist clickbait trying to attack qualified professionals committed to serving their country.”
In the age of Trump, top scientific posts all across the federal government have been going to dubiously qualified people or industry-friendly lobbyists, while career federal science personnel have been choosing to pursue other opportunities. Over at the Department of Agriculture, for example, the White House picked a former right-wing talk show host and climate change denier to serve as the agency’s chief scientist; around the same time, USDA scientists were told to avoid discussing climate change. Trump’s NOAA has disbanded climate change advisory committees, his proposed NASA administrator struggles to understand basic planetary sciences, and science staff from the State Department to White House bureaus have been making rapid exits.
All of this is happening very visibly. But the average person can’t really see toxic chemical-laced drinking water. All they can do is get very sick from it, sometimes a decade or more down the road, probably long after Pruitt and crew have made their exit to a cushy retirement.
[New York Times]


Georgia State Rep. Betty Price—spouse of former Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, who recently left his role in Donald Trump’s administration after taking a few too many taxpayer-funded charter flights—casually asked a state epidemiologist whether it would be more cost-effective to just force HIV-positive people into quarantine.
Per the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Price’s phrasing left open the possibility she’s not thrilled HIV-positive people are not dying “more readily,” at which point they would pose less of a risk.
Advertisement

“And I don’t want to say the quarantine word, but I guess I just said it,” Price asked Georgia state Department of Public Health HIV epidemiology chief Dr. Pascale Wortley at a study committee meeting this week. “Is there an ability, since I would guess that public dollars are expended heavily in prophylaxis and treatment of this condition?”
“So we have a public interest in curtailing the spread,” Price continued. “What would you advise or are there any methods legally that we could do that would curtail the spread?”
Not one to slow down, Price added, “It seems to me it’s almost frightening, the number of people who are living that are potentially carriers. Well they are carriers, with the potential to spread, whereas in the past they died more readily and then at that point they are not posing a risk. So we’ve got a huge population posing a risk if they are not in treatment.”
Wortley, who had just explained HIV treatments as well as routine medical care remain out of reach for many Georgians, responded that the state was already attempting to track the spread of the virus and get more people into care. The AJC reported Georgia has the second-highest rate of HIV infection in the US at 28.3 per 100,000 population in 2015, and just half are virally suppressed.
Aside from the obvious moral implications—Price was more or less suggesting rounding up the disproportionately LGBTQ HIV-positive population—there’s also the fact that this awful solution would never work. Quarantines are only advised for diseases that can be easily identified, progress quickly and are contagious enough via transmission methods like casual physical contact or the air to pose a risk to the general public, none of which really apply to HIV.
Both of the Prices are physicians, and should presumably be aware of this.
The history of epidemiology is also littered with quarantine horror stories, and fears that authorities could use quarantines as a pretext to put LGBTQ people in camps are still relevant today.
Advertisement

Tom Price’s selection as HHS secretary drew alarm from progressive groups, which pointed out his noxious record on gay rights is staunchly conservative, and that his efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and limit coverage of reproductive health services could harm LGBTQ communities and reduce access to HIV treatment.
“We need to emphasize that in this day and age, quarantining is not a useful strategy to control HIV,” Emory Center for AIDS Research co-director Dr. Carlos del Rio told STAT, adding he believed Price’s intent was misinformed rather than malicious.
“We need to get public health [workers] to find people, get them into care, keep them in care, and keep them virally suppressed,” he added. “If we can keep them virally suppressed, we can stop the epidemic.”
Advertisement

“When we come into spaces like this and we hear questions around how legally far can we go to isolate people or even quarantine people, then it just lets you know that we have a real uphill battle,” SisterLove executive director Dazon Dixon Diallo told Project Q Atlanta.
In a response released to the AJC, Price seemingly did not apologize and said her remarks were taken out of context:
I made a provocative and rhetorical comment as part of a free-flowing conversation which has been taken completely out of context. I do not support a quarantine in this public health challenge and dilemma of undertreated HIV patients. I do, however, wish to light a fire under all of us with responsibility in the public health arena - a fire that will result in resolve and commitment to ensure that all of our fellow citizens with HIV will receive, and adhere to, a treatment regimen that will enhance their quality of life and protect the health of the public.
Gizmodo has reached out to Price’s office for comment, and we’ll update this article if we hear back.
[Atlanta Journal-Constitution/Project Q Atlanta]


The Earth is once again passing through the debris left behind by Halley’s Comet, producing the Orionid meteors that peak this weekend. Go outside! Look at space!
The Orionids produce a shower annually, peaking at around 20 to 25 meteors per hour. As with all meteor showers, they’re named for the constellation they appear to stem from in the sky, Orion in this case (or more accurately, on the border of Orion and Gemini. You should care because space is great.
Advertisement

Meteoroids are pebble-sized bits of space debris that become meteors when they flash as they enter the Earth’s atmosphere. They can streak across the sky with average speeds around 150,000 mph according to Space.com. They’re called meteorites once they hit the ground.
As with any shower, it’s best to look a little further away from Orion—this will make the meteors you do manage to spot look longer.

Meteors in a shower all originate from the same place in the sky and generally fall parallel to one another. It’s sort of like sitting in the middle of a set of parallel stripes converging far away—distances look differently depending on which stripe you look at. As for Halley’s comet, that iconic chunk of ice and rock won’t be visiting Earth again until 2061.
If you head out late at night, the Moon should have set before the best part of the show—generally between midnight and sunrise, according to the American Meteor Society. If you don’t feel like going outside or it’s cloudy, the Slooh online telescope will be broadcasting it (you have to register).
Space!!!
[American Meteor Society, SPACE.com]


The promise of gene therapy has the potential to drastically limit the impact of human disease by altering the make-up of the body’s cells to fight back against deadly invaders. If used recreationally, though, gene therapy could also expand the physical limits of human strength and endurance. Like high-tech steroids, gene therapies could one day be a new way for athletes to dope.
Hoping to preemptively limit the consequences of the rapidly advancing field of genetic engineering in sports, the World Anti-Doping Agency officially added genetic engineering to its black list of banned substances and methods earlier this month. Beginning next year, the updated list will include “gene editing agents designed to alter genome sequences and/or the transcriptional or epigenetic regulation of gene expression.”
Advertisement

“Gene editing technology has advanced impressively in recent years,” WADA, an independent international agency which influences  anti-doping polices at the Olympics and in nations around the world, told Gizmodo in a statement. “This has prompted WADA to evaluate possible misuses of gene editing for doping and as a consequence, has included these technologies in the definition of Gene Doping.”
For years, researchers and sports officials have been asking questions about how advancing science might impact sport. It makes sense. Already advances in technology are relied upon to help give athletes a millisecond edge over their competitors. Sometimes that technology is biomedical in nature. The NBA’s Golden State Warriors, for example, have been known to rely on possibly psuedoscientific brain-zapping to give them an edge.
There have been no confirmed accounts of gene doping so far in sports, but the possibility has long been on WADA’s radar. In 2003, the agency officially banned “gene doping.” The update expands that ban to include any form of gene editing, crushing the possibility of any justified use of such medical technologies in sports, even if they one day become more commonplace in other areas of life.
“Despite sensational and scientifically unfounded claims occasionally seen in the media, WADA is not presently aware of any athletes who are gene doping,” the agency said via email. “Nevertheless we want to be ahead of the game and make it clear that when or if such techniques as gene editing would be used to enhance performance beyond a return to normal function, then it would be prohibited.”
It is unclear, however, how WADA would enforce such rules. For more than a decade, the agency began looking for a way to detect gene doping among athletes. Last year, the International Olympic Committee announced that athletes competing in Rio would be tested for added copies of a gene that produces a hormone called EPO that stimulates red blood cell production to increase endurance. No results have been announced, but such small tweaks could be hard to detect.
The agency declined to provide details on how it planned to enforce the new rules.
Advertisement

“At present, WADA is closely following developments in this area to define the best technique for the detection of gene editing if and when it were to be used as a doping method,” the agency said.


Some dog owners claim to be able to read the face of their cuddly canine like a book, but  it’s completely possible they’re just projecting. New research suggests it’s not just their imagination, and that dogs really do switch on the puppy eyes —but only in the presence of a captive audience.
Research published in Scientific Reports shows that dogs make facial expressions in the presence of humans, and that it’s not something dogs do simply because they’re excited. In experiments conducted by researchers from the University of Portsmouth’s Dog Cognition Center, dogs oriented their faces in response to human attention, while exhibiting significantly fewer facial movements when presented with a doggie treat. The finding suggests that dogs use facial expressions to communicate with humans—a trait that may have emerged as a result of domestication.
Advertisement

And indeed, the most common facial expression observed in the experiment was the so-called “puppy dog eyes.” That’s the patented look where a dog, in order to make itself look all-the-more adorable, will raise its eyebrows and make its eyes look bigger. The extended tongue was another cutesy pose observed in the study.
For the experiment, the researchers tested two-dozen dogs of various breeds, all family pets, and ranging in age from one to 12 years old. Each dog was tied to a lead and placed about a meter away from a person (the stimulus). The dogs’ facial expressions were filmed by DogFACS, a coding system that measures the tiniest movements in facial expressions.
“We presented dogs with an experimental situation in which a human demonstrator was either attending to them or turned away, and varied whether she presented food or not,” the authors wrote in the study. “Dogs produced significantly more facial movements when the human was attentive than when she was not. The food, however, as a non-social but arousing stimulus, did not affect the dogs’ behaviour.”
“The findings appear to support evidence [that] dogs are sensitive to humans’ attention and that expressions are potentially active attempts to communicate, not simple emotional displays,” explained lead author Juliane Kaminski in a statement. Other mammals are known to make facial expressions, but this is the first evidence to show that dogs do it as a form of communication.
In many ways, dogs appear and behave more like wolf puppies than wolf adults. Scientists have…
It’s possible that dogs acquired this capacity as a result of our 15,000-year-old symbiotic relationship. We may have actually bred this capacity into them, either deliberately or unconsciously. And in fact, a 2013 study showed that prospective dog owners were more likely to choose a dog with juvenile facial characteristics (i.e. pedomorphic facial expressions) than “older” looking dogs. That said, it’s also possible that dogs have retained their ability to make facial expressions since their days as wild animals. A comparative analysis with modern wolves would seem to be in order.
Advertisement

Further, this study doesn’t tell us if dogs are voluntarily or unconsciously altering their faces in response to human attention. It could be a direct attempt to communicate, or it could be an instinctive reaction when in the presence of an attentive human. It also doesn’t mean that dogs are capable of understanding or empathizing with a person’s emotional state. We know that dogs can smell fear in a human (and then get scared, too), so it’s possible that they can, but further evidence will be required to suss this out.
In the meantime, enjoy that puppy dog look, and know it’s probably meant for you.
[Scientific Reports]


“Glass is an amorphous solid that flows like a liquid,” you’d probably say if you were asked to define the stuff. Is that true, though? What if I told you, for example, that the old myth, that old windows are thicker at the bottom because the glass has flowed a little bit, was false? Glass is an incredibly complex physical idea that avoids easy definition.
A pair of scientists is hoping to re-define what a “glass” is, so students can better understand what’s going on with this strange state of matter. Others aren’t sure if they’re ready to accept a be-all, end-all definition. But one thing is for sure: Glass isn’t a “solid” or a “liquid” in the way you might think.
Advertisement

“It combines features of solids and liquids,” paper author John Mauro, Penn State scientist and inventor of Gorilla Glass for Corning Incorporated told Gizmodo. “We proposed a new definition of glass to accurately capture both features.”
Mauro and Edgar Zanotto from the Federal University of São Carlo in Brazil propose a simple, official definition as follows: “Glass is a nonequilibrium, non-crystalline state of matter that appears solid on a short time scale but continuously relaxes towards the liquid state.” At the more advanced level, they suggest “Glass is a nonequilibrium, non-crystalline condensed state of matter that exhibits a glass transition. The structure of glasses is similar to that of their parent supercooled liquids (SCL), and they spontaneously relax toward the SCL state. Their ultimate fate is to solidify, i.e., crystallize.” They recently published their explanation in the Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids.
The identity crisis begins with the fact that no matter how solid-seeming it is, glass always “relaxes,” moving towards a state of supercooled liquid. These are liquids that have been cooled below their freezing points but are not allowed to arrange themselves into regular crystalline patterns. Some researchers consider glasses supercooled liquids because they, too, flow (incredibly slowly) and don’t have regular crystalline structures. But there’s still a poorly-defined temperature—the glass transition temperature—at which glass becomes softer and some of its innate properties change. Glass also stores more built-in energy than a supercooled liquid at the same temperature.
The key difference between a glass and other amorphous solids is the presence of this glass transition temperature, one where the properties noticeably change from a glass to a supercooled liquid. Other amorphous solids don’t have that.
Think of a theater full of randomly placed humans. Everyone is told to grab the hands of someone nearby if they want, regardless of the seats. That’s a glass—but it’s a real mess and would be much easier if everyone was holding their neighbor’s hands in the seat next to them. Someone begins to turn the thermostat up, and everyone is instructed that they’re allowed to let go and take on a more comfortable hand-holding arrangement when they start to feel warm. The glass transition temperature is just some best-fit temperature to describe when people have really started letting go of and re-grabbing someone else’s hand—during that time, it’s a supercooled liquid. There’s a “glass transition time,” which is just how long it takes to reach that transition temperature.
The glass researchers would then stop observing, but the assumption is that in all cases, eventually, everyone is holding their neighbor’s hand and the solid becomes a crystal.
Advertisement

Ultimately the researchers’ definition is meant to capture all of that, and they posit that prior definitions haven’t quite done so. One researcher, Richard Brow at the Missouri University of Science & Technology, told Gizmodo the article was “great” and had no problems with its science. He still felt the researchers veered a little too close to calling glass a liquid, given just how solid it really is. The amount of flow is incredibly slow—cathedral windows are thicker at the bottom because they’re heavier at the bottom and were installed that way, for example. Glass’s flow requires billions of years to move just a few nanometers, explained Brow. Essentially, some things just evade definition, and glass is one of those things. “Unless your definition is four pages long, it can be misinterpreted. That’s where I come from.”
So, there’s a new definition of glass in town—but as a reminder, there is still a whole lot that scientists don’t know about glass and what it is. It’s a little too complex in its behavior to be easily and correctly captured by a high school chemistry textbook. And it’s getting glass scientists talking.
“It’s created debate in the community,” said Mauro. “People appreciate the chance of discussing it.”
[Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids]
Correction: The article originally misspelled Richard Brow’s name. It has now been corrected and the writer regrets the error.


Evolution works very slowly—except when it doesn’t. New research shows that certain British birds appear to be changing quickly as result of bird feeders, evolving longer beaks to help them access the food inside.
Many years ago, the late evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay Gould proposed a concept he called “punctuated equilibrium,” in which species undergo rapid bursts of evolution in reaction to a sudden environmental change. And to that point: Research published today in Science suggests that populations of great tits (Parus major) are in the midst of a punctuated equilibrium phase thanks to the relatively recent introduction of backyard feeders. Specifically, the birds are evolving longer beaks, which helps them access food, and in turn boosts their chances of reproducing and passing this fortuitous trait down to the next generation. It’s classic Darwinian natural selection in action—but at an accelerated pace.
Advertisement

The new research, led by the University of Oxford’s Department of Zoology, is part of a long term study of populations of great tits (Parus major) in the UK’s Wytham Woods and in Oosterhout and Veluwe, in the Netherlands. Oxford University has been studying the Wytham Woods great tit population for over 70 years.
For the study, the researchers scanned the DNA of more than 3,000 birds in an effort to find genetic differences between the British and Dutch populations. The analysis revealed altered gene sequences linked to facial features, leading the researchers to speculate that the beaks of great tits were adapting to the widespread use of bird feeders.
To see if this might be the case, the researchers took a gander at the rich historical record, and it showed that the British version of the great tit has a beak that appears to be getting longer over time. Further, they had access to data from electronic tags that were fitted to some of the Wytham Woods birds, allowing the researchers to track how often these birds were frequenting bird feeders. As expected, birds with genetic markers for longer beaks visited bird feeders more regularly than birds without the genetic variation.
“Between the 1970s and the present day, beak length has got longer among the British birds. That’s a really short time period in which to see this sort of difference emerging,’ said Jon Slate, a co-author of the new study and a professor at the University of Sheffield, in a statement. “We now know that this increase in beak length, and the difference in beak length between birds in Britain and mainland Europe, is down to genes that have evolved by natural selection.”
In the United Kingdom, Britons spend about twice as much on birdseed and bird feeders than the folks in mainland Europe—and they’ve been engaging in this backyard activity for quite some time.
Advertisement

“In fact, at the start of the 20th century, Punch magazine described bird feeding as a British national pastime,’ said study co-author Lewis Spurgin, of the School of Biological Sciences at the University of East Anglia (UEA). “Although we can’t say definitively that bird feeders are responsible, it seems reasonable to suggest that the longer beaks amongst British great tits may have evolved as a response to this supplementary feeding.”
The researchers also discovered that birds with the long-beak genetic variants were better at reproducing than their short-beaked counterparts. From a “survival of the fittest” standpoint, this suggests that the newly acquired trait is a fortuitous one—one that’s leading these birds down a new evolutionary path. Given enough time, and assuming Britons don’t alter their bird feeding habits, this could eventually result in the emergence of an entirely new subspecies of great tit, an evolutionary process that biologists refer to as speciation.
The avenues for future research are obvious, and the researchers have already begun to look at the DNA of other great tit populations in Europe. Early results show that the emerging long-beak genetic variant is exclusive to the UK. Other researchers in other parts of the world should take note and embark on similar studies to see if similar things are happening to birds elsewhere.
If you’re like me, your brain is so riddled with cat virus that you never want to hear anything…
As a final note, bird feeders may make it easier for birds to find food, but it also makes it easier for cats to find birds. If you’re a cat owner, you should probably keep them away from backyard feeders.
[Science]


No one said that monsters needed to be big or even scary. But when James Dwight Dana first spotted one strange plankton species back in the 19th century, he knew he had something weird on his hands. “Little monster,” Monstrilla seemed like as good a name as any. After all, scientists can name species after pretty much anything, even penises.
A 2014 expedition to the Arctic revealed a whole new species of these little monsters hanging out beneath the ice. The researchers named it Monstrillopsis planifrons, essentially “little monster with a flat head.” Research like this shows just how much more there is to learn about the vast Arctic.
Advertisement

“As a result, local and regional [species] lists are expected to grow as the exploration of under-sampled regions continues,” first author Aurélie Delaforge writes in the paper, published this week in the journal ZooKeys.
Why should you be excited about plankton? Well, they’re the bottom of the food chain. Maybe you think that makes them unimportant...or they’re the most important animals in the ocean. You probably don’t think much about the individual kinds of plankton, though.
M. planifrons is a strange looking miniature crustacean, only a few millimeters long, like a one-eyed eight hairy legged-frilly shrimp with furry antennae. It’s got an extra set of rear legs that look like otter feet and weird-looking genitals. Like a monster.
Delaforge’s discovery was lucky, according to a University of Manitoba press release—these creatures are only free-floating adults during May and June—otherwise they’re either larvae or parasites on clams.
Anyway, there are monsters everywhere, even in the Canadian arctic. Don’t get too spooked, now.
[ZooKeys via UManitoba]


Bitcoin’s price has risen stratospherically, a fact that leaves many minor players in the market with massive gains and many bigger players millionaires. But is this a bubble? Are the gains real? And are the bitcoin whales in for a sad Christmas?
First we must understand what drives bitcoin price and, in particular, this boom. The common understanding for current growth leads us back to institutional investors preparing for the forthcoming BTC futures exchanges.
The primary theory about the astonishing rally being put forward by investors on social media is that bitcoin will soon benefit from big institutional money injections via the introduction of the first BTC futures products. CBOE Global Markets and CME Group are launching new futures contracts on December 10 and December 17, allowing investors to go long or short on bitcoin. This ability makes bitcoin far more palatable to big investors who are currently flooding the market to make profits if and when the bitcoin price falls.
This move also legitimizes bitcoin in Wall Street’s eyes, an important point considering  cryptocurrencies are still suspect.
Further growth comes from the the “bitcoin as a store of value” crowd. This group of enthusiast bought and held bitcoin and will not sell it at any current price. More and more bitcoin fans are entering into this group and they are driving up demand increases. In a world where people expect bitcoin to be worth $1 million soon this sort of activity – whether rational or irrational – is quite popular.
We see a common thread between these points: hype and news. All cryptocurrency movements are based on domain specific media and conversations between traders. Bitcoin traders, it can be said, are now akin to the jolly colonists selling stocks under buttonwood tree. This small but influential market is prone to panics based on a single Tweet and users work together to a least bolster themselves with cries of “HODL!” The market is so nascent that there are no dark pools, no popular algorithmic trading systems, and no real way to automate your buying and selling activities (although, without futures, there was never a need to). That is all coming and at that point the market will harden itself against panics and booms. Until then we enjoy rises and dips and volatility that puts most bitcoin dilettantes off their lunch.
Ultimately new and old users are testing the limits of a system that, for a decade, has been untested. The futures market will be a big driver in growth and bust over the next few months as institutional investors begin using the currency. CoinDesk writer Omkar Godbole notes that the price should remain stable but a “a pullback to $11,000 cannot be ruled out, but dips below the upward sloping 10-day MA of $11,500 are likely to be short-lived.”
“As of now, a significant correction is unlikely and could be seen only on confirmation of a bearish price-RSI divergence and/or if RSI and stochastic move lower from the overbought territory,” he wrote.


Is this dangerous? Yes, to those who are betting big on BTC. Again, I cannot tell you whether to buy or sell but the common expectation is that bitcoin raises to a set point and then fluctuates between a high and a low until the next run up. Many expect foul play.
“The current price isn’t truly driven by demand. When CME Group went live with Bitcoin futures we saw a sharp increase in demand and an increased number of users in the network,” said Matthew Unger, CEO and Founder of iComplyICO. “Now, some institutional major players are flooding the network with new cash and creating what appears to be market manipulation. Now that Bitcoin futures are available it is easy to buy into futures market first and then create a massive number of buys or sells of Bitcoin to ensure the price swings in favour of your futures contract.”
“In many jurisdictions, Bitcoin has yet to become subject to regulations, leaving an investor with no recourse or protection from fraud or market manipulation,” said Unger.
Is this a bubble? Many are disappointed in the moves, believing the rise is happening because of market manipulation. But we must remember that the real value of a cryptocurrency is not driven by price but instead is driven by utility. While bitcoin may always be the proverbial hidden pot of gold for early buyers the future of all cryptocurrencies is still being written. Just as, in 1994, no one could have predicted the prevalence and value of open source projects like Linux and Apache, no one can currently predict what bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies will do for us in the future. Until we know, it’s best to buckle up and and enjoy the ride.


The Game Awards, an event that’s exactly what it sounds like, took place shortly ago and, like any gaming event, it was shot through with trailers and announcements. What’s the biggest announcement, you ask? It’s probably a tie between the sudden release of a new expansion for Zelda: Breath of the Wild and a teaser for the next project from From Software, the creators of Dark Souls and Bloodborne.
Well, let’s be honest – a new Zelda expansion, available now, is pretty much the only thing that matters in the world. Everything else can wait.

The Champions’ Ballad appears to be a follow-up to the original story, with the four champions working to defeat “the beast” once and for all. More importantly, there’s new horse armor that lets you teleport your mount to your location instantly. New weapons and armor await, and it also looks like there are a number of new shrines and larger dungeons. Oh, and you get an “ancient” motorcycle. I’d be playing it now if I hadn’t left my Zelda cartridge in the U.S. when I crossed the pond for Disrupt Berlin. What was I thinking?!
Less immediate but perhaps ultimately more intriguing is From Software’s minimal trailer for its new game, which has no name but does have a tagline: “Shadows Die Twice.” Some speculate this is a reboot of Shadow Tower, one of From’s earliest games, but others point out that not only is this a line from venerated ninja series Tenchu, but the music and writing suggest a Japanese theme. No one is quite sure what the gruesome hardware on display is, though my guess is it’s a grapple made from a bone.
Next on the hype train is Death Stranding, the next project from Hideo Kojima, of Metal Gear fame. In the longest and most substantive look at the game so far, which really isn’t saying much, we see a space-suited-up Norman Reedus attempting in vain to hide from invisible and enigmatic pursuers that seem to be attracted to… suffering? Life? Anything but the baby in bottle that later turns up inside Reedus.

We’re really no wiser than we were before, but Kojima’s eye for the uncanny and dramatic is clear. He may be rather off the rails, but often our most interesting artists are.
Some other trailers of note: The developers of The Vanishing of Ethan Carter, a creepy mystery, show off their latest project, Witchfire.

But if you were expecting another somber, slow-moving affair, the developers would like to remind you that they were also behind the excellent Painkiller and underrated Bulletstorm. It looks like a high-energy shoot-em-up in a strange, arcane world.
I’m particularly interested in Campo Santo’s In the Valley of the Gods, in which it appears you and a partner (likely computer controlled) infiltrate a tomb not to raid it, but to document it with an old-timey movie camera.

Perhaps you’re not as much of an antiquarian as I am, but this looks like it should be a very interesting little adventure.
Some other things worth noting: Bayonetta 3 was teased as a Switch exclusive, along with remasters of 1 and 2. This should please hardcore action fans who might not be satisfied with the console’s otherwise great selection of games.
And the soul still burns: Soul Calibur 6 was announced, though honestly I’m still happy to play the original on Dreamcast.


Nvidia cards are the de facto standard for running machine learning workloads and today, the company added yet another high-end compute-centric card to its line-up: the Titan V. This card, which is based on Nvidia’s Volta architecture, features 21.1 billion transistors on a 815 mm2 chip that can produce a full 110 teraflops of compute power.
All of that power comes at a price, though. The card, which features 12GB of HBM2 memory, will retail for $2,999. For that, though, users will see a 9x increase in raw power compared to the Titan Xp, the card’s predecessor, which retailed for “only” $1,299.
It’s worth noting that this isn’t really Nvidia’s most powerful card yet — that honor still belongs to the 112 teraflop Tesla V100, which tends to retail for around $10,000. It is Nvidia’s most powerful GPU for PCs, though. Both the Titan V and V100 cards seem to have quite a bit in common, including the V100 GPU at their core, though the Titan V features both less memory and a reduced memory bus width.

The launch of the Titan V came as a bit of a surprise. Nvidia CEO Jen-Hsun Huang wasn’t exactly expected to announce new hardware during his keynote at the NIPS conference.
“Our vision for Volta was to push the outer limits of high performance computing and AI. We broke new ground with its new processor architecture, instructions, numerical formats, memory architecture and processor links,” said Huang. “With TITAN V, we are putting Volta into the hands of researchers and scientists all over the world. I can’t wait to see their breakthrough discoveries.”
While you could happy play PUBG with this card (it’s very much a standard PCI-E video card, after all), it’s very much geared toward researchers who need this kind of parallel processing power for running their scientific simulations or who want to build machine learning models (or you could just use it to mine cryptocurrencies, of course). The Titan V features 5120 Cuda cores and additional 640 tensor cores that have been optimized to speed up machine learning workloads.


Uber has struck a major deal in Southeast Asia after ComfortDelGro, Singapore’s largest taxi operator, announced [PDF] it has agreed to buy a majority share of the ride-hailing giant’s Singapore-based car rental business.
The deal will see a joint venture valued at SG$642 million (US$474 million) established to run Uber’s Lion City Rentals subsidiary in Singapore. Comfort will spend SG$295 million to buy 51 percent in what is the largest investment outlay in its forty-plus-year history.
The deal is subject to regulatory approval, but if and when completed it will give Uber exclusive access to Comfort’s fleet of more than 15,000 vehicles in Singapore. That would more than double Uber’s driver numbers in Singapore. While its fleet has decreased over the past year, Comfort — which also operates the CityCab brand — has a dominant share of Singapore’s total of 25,325 taxis.
“ComfortDelGro has been in the taxi business for close to five decades and we have seen the industry evolve significantly. Despite the many changes that have taken place, taxis have remained a relevant option for people get around the city. The question many have been asking is: For how long?” ComfortDelGro Chairman Lim Jit Poh said in a statement.
“We are confident that taxis will be around for a long time to come. But we are also aware
that the personalised mobility business is a very different one now. By working
together, we feel that we will be able to unleash a lot of synergy which will benefit
consumers and drivers alike,” he added.
Uber and Grab compete across seven markets in Southeast Asia, while in Indonesia — Southeast Asia’s largest economy — both are widely-thought to be trailing local player Go-Jek, which has grown to command a $1.2 billion valuation from investors like Tencent.
Overall, Grab claims two million drivers and more than 70 million app downloads. Uber doesn’t disclose figures for Southeast Asia, but it previously said that Asia Pacific as a whole represents over 20 percent of its global trip volume. The region, it added, has nearly 629,000 active drivers, which it said is over 25 percent of its global driver network. Uber crossed five billion rides worldwide at the end of June 2017, while Grab reached one billion last month.
With a population of around five million, Singapore represents a small fraction of Southeast Asia’s 600-million-plus consumers but it is an important and symbolic hub for the region.
Comfort, which is listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange, announced it was in talks with Uber over a “potential strategic alliance” in August so the tie-in doesn’t come out of the blue. Following that disclosure, however, Uber’s fierce rival Grab began aggressively approaching Comfort drivers with the aim of converting them to its platform. Singapore-based Today suggested that as many as 2,000 drivers were considering jumping ship, but Grab’s efforts haven’t scuppered the deal itself.
“As has been reported by the media, both companies are downsizing their fleets and are playing catch up. Grab and our taxi partners have out-innovated them and are in a strong position to grow our fleets, while keeping vehicle rental costs low for driver-partners,” Grab said in a statement to TechCrunch.
The deal Comfort is part of a new focus on business development from Uber’s recently appointed Asia Pacific chief Brooks Entwistle. A former Chairman of Goldman Sachs Southeast Asia, Entwistle told TechCrunch in a recent interview that he is focused on doing deals with governments, taxi firms and other entities that would traditionally be more akin to foes than friends of Uber.
To that end, Uber has struck deals with taxi firms in Taiwan, it inked its first mobile wallet deal in Southeast Asia with Vietnam’s Momo, and it is looking into the potential to enter the bike sharing space, Entwistle said.
The Comfort deal is a major blow to Grab, which is estimated to have built a fleet of around 10,000 licensed drivers in Singapore thanks to partnerships with Singapore’s five other taxi operators and some Comfort drivers who joined independently. (Grab claims over 150,000 drivers across all ride categories in Singapore.)
Grab was originally founded in Malaysia but it now counts Singapore as its HQ. It raised $2 billion from SoftBank and China’s Didi Chuxing in July and, while reliable market data is hard to find, most observers believe the firm has edged ahead of Uber in overall marketshare across Southeast Asia.
If Uber can hunt down influential alliances like this deal with Comfort in the other six markets where it rivals Grab in Southeast Asia then the battle is likely to be even more competitive in the future. That’s important given that the region’s ride-sharing economy is tipped to grow five-fold to reach $13.1 billion in annual revenue and 29 million customers over the next decade.
Note: The original version of this article has been updated to include more information

Featured Image: ANTHONY WALLACE/Getty Images


MishiPay, a London startup that has built mobile self-checkout technology that promises to put an end to queuing to pay, has raised £1.65 million in seed funding. The round is led by European VC Nauta Capital and will be used to further grow the burgeoning company as it persuades high street retailers to adopts its wares.
Apparently inspired by co-founder Mustafa Khanwala’s own shopping experience — when in 2015 he had to queue for 20 minutes just to buy a soda — MishiPay’s ‘patent pending’ self-checkout tech lets you simply scan the barcode of an item on your phone, pay on the phone and leave the store with your items. In other words, without ever having to lineup at a checkout.
Furthermore, the startup says its technology enables this ‘scan, pay, leave’ experience while preventing theft via RFID and other means. If you try to leave without paying, sensors will sound an alarm. But once you’ve paid, the security is disabled and you are free to walk out of the door with your purchased items.
“The problem I had set out to solve initially was queuing but right now we realize it is just the tip of the iceberg,” Khanwala tells me. “We are solving the problem of the divide between the in-store and e-commerce experience and aiming to bridge that and bring the best of both worlds together for shoppers and stores. I understand though that this is a humongous task of tackling a $25 Trillion industry and so the aim is to start by first solving one of the biggest problems that have plagued the in-store checkout experience for decades, queuing!”
Of course, self-checkout systems is nothing new, but the innovation here is doing away with a discrete in-store checkout altogether. Instead, the payment process means your mobile, combined with the rest of MishiPay’s tech stack, is the checkout and barcode scanner.
“There are no checkout counters, no security tills and definitely no queuing. It is just: scan, pay and leave. What’s special is that we integrate security against theft that disables automatically and that we integrate into the existing systems of the retailer. This is key,” says the co-founder MishiPay.
The tech itself has been two years in the making and has been successfully trialled in four countries, and Khanwala says the startup is ready to work with major retailers “to prove the clear value in rolling out our technology in their stores”.
Meanwhile, competitors include AmazonGo, QueueHop, and YouBeep, but Khanwala says what makes MishiPay different is the ability to have a ‘scan, pay, leave’ experience with zero friction points or barriers, security against theft with RFID that disables on its own, and deep integration with existing retail tech.
“We also have a patent-pending that protects the way we disable the RFID, the way we do our scanning to identify the item uniquely and the different interconnections of the systems,” he says.


Ignoring recent price rises for a second, if you can — there’s no greater sign of bitcoin fever than an app that lets you buy the cryptocurrency becoming the most downloaded app in the App Store.
That’s exactly what happened on Thursday when Coinbase, the $1.6-billion-valued company behind what is arguably the world’s best-known exchange for converting fiat into crypto, hit the top spot for free apps in Apple’s U.S. App Store for the first time as the price of bitcoin rocketed past $17,000 thanks via a price jump of over 20 percent in 24 hours.
The irony of Coinbase hitting the mainstream is that, for many customers, the service was actually unavailable for large portions of the day. The Coinbase app was hanging for many — making it impossible to check an account balance let alone buy into The Next Great Bitcoin Rush — and its web-based service didn’t fare any better. The site was “down for maintenance” for large chunks of the day, frustrating customers looking to buy, sell or merely access their account.


BREAKING:  Coinbase unavailable.
The company now has more customers than Charles Schwab and has opened as many as 300,000 accounts in a day.
Today has unprecedented volume and demand.
There are litterally so many people trying to buy Bitcoin that exchanges are crashing. pic.twitter.com/ZzMKkplyga
— Bruce Fenton (@brucefenton) December 7, 2017



Things appears to have stabilized at the time of writing and, to be fair to Coinbase, it wasn’t the only fiat-crypto exchange that buckled under the pressure and its capacity has clearly improved significant since its last major outage when bitcoin passed $2,000.
Still, it’s insane that an app can race to the top of the App Store despite not actually functioning for many users that very day. But hey, we live in a world where one bitcoin is worth north of $18,000 so ‘normal’ is becoming harder to define.


Samir Arora says it’s time for a new wave of applications that use reliable location data.
Arora previously founded Mode Media (which he departed before its shutdown last year, though he remains involved in Mode Media Japan) and NetObjects before that. Today he’s unveiling Sage Digital, the startup that he’s hoping will provide the data for that new wave.
Arora said Sage has been in stealth for the past two years, and that his Woodside Incubator has already provided $10 million in seed and Series A funding. (Not all of the funding was in cash — the $10 million also includes the value of technology and services provided by Woodside.)
Sage is also announcing that it has hired Crystal Ciancutti as its head of product. Ciancutti previously led the search product team at Airbnb, and before that led product marketing for iTunes at Apple.
When we talk about location data, Arora means GPS data, data about the businesses at which location and consumer data. There are plenty of existing sources for this information, of course, but as anyone who’s ended up trying to drive to a nonexistent or long-shuttered store knows, it’s not always accurate — we put up with it because it’s accurate enough.
Arora argued that an approach that values comprehensiveness over accuracy makes sense for search, where you just want to see as many results/locations as possible. However, as we move towards more personalized interactions and queries, accuracy becomes more important.
To achieve this accuracy, Sage is focused on what Arora called “verified sources.” By that he means an individual or publication “who is real, who has a verified real name, who has knowledge about locations, who actually checks in or goes to or says something about a location.”
So Sage has been building up a database of location data from these sources. It isn’t sharing specific numbers about how much data it’s gathered, but Arora said the team has done a lot of hard work to build artificial intelligence that can verify different sources. He also said that Sage’s data is worldwide, and he estimated that in a given category/place type, it’s been able to verify 60 to 70 percent of locations.
Next up, the startup is starting to work with developers who want to use this data to in things like location-based mobile apps, automotive apps and personal assistants. And Sage will also building some apps of its own.

Featured Image: Sage Digital


When it comes to tracking the effectiveness of online advertising campaigns, PhoneWagon CEO Ryan Shank said there’s been a big piece missing for most businesses — namely, how often those campaigns lead to phone calls.
Shank has plenty of experience in local marketing, having worked in sales at Yext, then serving as COO Mhelpdesk, which was sold to IAC’s HomeAdvisor.
And he’s announcing that PhoneWagon has raised $1.2 million in seed funding, led by Birchmere Ventures, with participation from Active Capital. The startup was part of the most recent class of startups at Techstars NYC, and its angel investors include early Yext employees Adam Liebman, Adam Kaplan and Dave Greenberger.
Shank acknowledged that there are existing call tracking services like CallRail, but he argued that their pricing and the difficulty of setup puts them out of reach for many small businesses.
“These other guys, they even speak too technical about it,” he said.
With PhoneWagon, Shank aimed to build something that was “easy-to-use, beautiful, simple” and therefore usable by SMBs.
Businesses just install a few lines of JavaScript on their website, then when someone comes to the site thanks to an online ad, they’re presented with a dynamically generated phone number.
If you’re the kind of company that gets a lot of business over the phone, these dynamic numbers make it easier to break down which traffic sources, keywords and campaigns drove the most valuable calls.
Other features include integrations with Google AdWords and other platforms, as well as the ability to show local and toll-free phone numbers to each visitor.
PhoneWagon already has nearly 150 customers and is added 40 new customers every month, Shank said.

Featured Image: Reza Estakhrian/Getty Images


The fight over a critical loophole in U.S. surveillance law may not be resolved in Congress before the year ends, but the Trump administration appears to have no qualms about keeping it open, even if the law expires.
The law, known as Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), is set to expire at the end of the 2017 calendar year unless renewed by lawmakers. Given its supporters in Congress, renewing Section 702 at the cost of American privacy seemed inevitable, but now lawmakers have their hands full trying to speed a controversial tax bill into law before the calendar turns over.
As The New York Times reports, “executive branch lawyers have now concluded that the government could lawfully continue to spy under the program through late April without new legislation,” a revelation that is sure to be just as controversial as the surveillance law itself, which is harshly criticized by privacy advocates for its practice of sweeping up the communications of American citizens while spying on foreign targets.
U.S. government officials have long dodged the question of how many Americans might be affected by Section 702 surveillance, but that hasn’t stopped people like Oregon Senator Ron Wyden from posing the question.
Speaking with the Times, Brian Hale, spokesperson for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, argued that because the law was recertified in April of this year that it is authorized to continue for 12 months after that date, a provision that would trump the law’s planned sunset date at the end of 2017.

Featured Image: Shutterstock


Deep Patel
Contributor



Deep Patel is a serial entrepreneur, marketer and the author of A Paperboy's Fable: The 11 Principles of Success.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Business in the age of Ethereum



ICOs have opened to the general public investments in blockchain ventures. In the third quarter of 2017 alone, ICOs raised more than $1.3 billion for crypto ventures — approximately five times more than funding raised through venture capital in the blockchain space.
There were more than 200 ICOs in 2017, and conducting due diligence on all of them would be extremely time-consuming, even for a knowledgeable analyst, let alone an amateur investor. This is compounded by the fact that blockchain is still considered to be an early-stage technology, with new consensus mechanisms and use cases being developed every day.
With exponential growth in public interest, esoteric terminology and a lax regulatory framework, it is no surprise that some ICOs have been used to fund scams and cheat investors of their money.
While nothing can compete with quality due diligence, knowing which red flags to look for in order to steer clear of scams or bad ICOs can be helpful.
Use case does not require blockchain
Not every venture needs a blockchain, and not everything needs to be decentralized. This might seem obvious, but with all the hype around blockchain technology and its disruptive potential, it can be easy to latch on to an idea the moment its whitepaper mentions a large industry the project is purportedly tackling.
Even projects that require cryptocurrencies as payment (e.g. Steemit, which rewards writers on its platforms with a native “digital points system,” Steem) could very well survive with existing cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ether.
When evaluating an ICO, a good first question to ask is: “Do we need a blockchain or a native token for this project?” If the answer is no to both, chances are the ICO project is an example of solutionism — crypto for crypto’s sake — or a scam.
Empty repositories for open-source projects
If an ICO project is proposing open-source code, an empty or nonexistent GitHub is often a red flag.
One of the key traits of many public blockchain projects is the fact that they are open-sourced. This means the code base is often uploaded to repositories like GitHub for all to examine. For those who have blockchain programming experience, looking through the published code can allow them to gauge a project’s validity.
If something seems like a scam, it probably is.
 
One of the most obvious red flags for a scam project is the lack of detail on how the technology works. For nontechnical investors, it can be helpful to simply check if a project has any existing files uploaded to public repositories or if a project has a functioning product.
While Reddit is generally not an advisable source for investment advice, sub-threads dedicated to discussions of specific ICOs or crypto assets often offer a good entry point for the more technical evaluations.
Mining structure disproportionately favors development team
While not always an accurate litmus test for scams on their own, the supply schedule and mining structure of an ICO can be used to cross-reference other data points and validate the intention of the founders.
In simple terms, a premine refers to when a portion of the tokens for a crypto project is made available to a small group prior to being made publicly available. At times, this can be a necessary vehicle to reward developers and early investors. However, if the percentage of total tokens supplied throughout the lifetime of the project reserved for a premine is high, there is reason for concern.
For instance, Paycoin, whose founder was found guilty of operating a $9 million fraud scheme, had the majority of their tokens reserved for developers on the project. Favoring the development team could be an indication that the team’s intent is to maximize their personal financial gain from the appreciation of the token, rather than maintain the viability of the blockchain network over time.
Anonymous team or team with weak experience
Understanding who is on the team behind a blockchain project is perhaps the most important step in your due diligence. Even if the premise of the venture and the addressable market seem attractive, one of the biggest determinants of a venture’s success is the makeup of the team behind it.
It is often a red flag if the team behind an ICO does not have any named full-time developers. Additional caution should be taken if none of the leadership team has any domain knowledge in the specific vertical.
When looking at a team and verifying their experience, platforms like Twitter and LinkedIn are useful. However, it’s important to note that they are not infallible, as profiles can be faked. If members of the team claim prior association with universities or companies, double-checking with reputable third-party sources (e.g. a university newspaper or the company website) can provide the facts.
ICOs often list their advisors on their websites. You should also verify whether the advisors are legitimate.
Insufficient information on website/whitepaper
If something seems like a scam, it probably is. When you are unsure whether a project is a scam, it is better to err on the side of caution. While it is possible that the lack of well-designed websites and detailed information for a crypto project is because the project is still in its infancy, it can be hard to determine whether a project is underdeveloped or a scam.
In many cases, they can be both. In those cases, interested investors can either wait for more information (such as in the case of Asia-based ICOs, where information is only translated into English later on in the project), or simply avoid ICOs they do not fully understand.
Nothing can compete with quality due diligence.
 
Another crucial source of information for all ICOs is the whitepaper — the document that outlines the mission, technical details, team and other crucial details behind the venture. While the amateur investor may not have the technical background to fully understand every aspect of a whitepaper, general understanding of blockchain concepts is a must when evaluating whitepapers.
Some more legitimate projects (e.g. Ethereum) offer a high-level whitepaper outlining the key points of the venture, alongside a detailed technical document that explains the technology behind the project.
No clear roadmap
Typically, ICO projects list their funding and development goals on a clear timeline for investors to see. The lack of a clear roadmap could indicate that the developing team has no long-term plan for the project, and as such is likely to be motivated solely by short-term financial gain. Paired with a large premine reserved for the developing team, this could be a strong indicator that an ICO project is not to be trusted with your money.
Often, ICO projects will have dedicated Slack or Telegram channels that the public can join. Through periodic updates distributed on these channels, potential investors can get a sense of how the project is developing.
However, malicious scammers can easily create a timeline out of thin air or provide fake updates on chat apps. While the lack of a timeline is certainly a red flag, the existence of one is not a wholly sufficient condition to indicate the legitimacy of an ICO project.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Apple says it has issued a fix for an iOS security flaw that left key connected home hardware open to unauthorized third-party access. The bug, which was initially spotted by 9to5Mac, reportedly made it possible for an outside party to access things like smart locks and garage doors.
The company has since confirmed with TechCrunch the existence of the bug. “The issue affecting HomeKit users running iOS 11.2 has been fixed,” an Apple spokesperson said in a statement. “The fix temporarily disables remote access to shared users, which will be restored in a software update early next week.” 
The fix appears to be a server-side update, meaning that the end-user doesn’t have to update anything for it to take effect. For the time being, it also means that users with 11.2  won’t have all of the standard remote HomeKit functionality, until Apple rolls out something more permanent next week. Getting that functionality back will require updating to the latest version of iOS. 
The initial report doesn’t detail the specifics of the exploit in its post, only noting that, “The vulnerability required at least one iPhone or iPad on iOS 11.2, the latest version of Apple’s mobile operating system, connected to the HomeKit user’s iCloud account.” It appears to be a difficult one to replicate and doesn’t impact earlier builds of the operating system. But it may highlight concerns around smart home functionality as users connect more pieces of their home to an ecosystem like HomeKit, Assistant or Alexa.
Bugs are part of any software solution, and Apple’s rushed to fix a couple of prominent ones on macOS and iOS in recent weeks. Like those, the company’s patched things up here with, hopefully, minimal inconvenience to the end user. But as always, it’s important to make a cost-benefit analysis of a connected home offering to decide if it’s the right fit.


Salesforce announced today that it was joining the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF), the open-source organization that manages Kubernetes, the popular open-source container orchestration tool.
It is the latest in a long line of big name companies, joining the likes of AWS, Oracle, Microsoft, VMware and Pivotal, all of whom joined in a flurry of activity earlier this year. Most of these other companies have more of a cloud infrastructure angle. Salesforce is a SaaS vendor, but it too is seeing what so many others are seeing: containerization provides a way to more tightly control the development process. Kubernetes and cloud native computing in general are a big part of that, and Salesforce wants a piece of the action.
Salesforce’s Mark Interrante wrote in a blog post on Medium announcing the partnership that it’s always a good sign when developers adopt new technologies like Kubernetes quickly. It proves that they see how these tools help create products faster and easier, certainly a goal for a company like Salesforce that is generating new products at a rapid pace.
In fact, Interrante wrote that Salesforce’s development teams have adopted many of the CNCF tools, including Kubernetes. “We’ve seen how containerization simplifies the orchestration of software across a large fleet of servers. Kubernetes makes a great foundation for continuous innovation/continuous delivery which then improves our software delivery,” Interrante wrote.
Salesforce, much like the other large software companies that have joined the CNCF, wants to benefit from being a part of the process and helping to influence the development of key tools moving forward. “This kind of collaboration, with Salesforce as an active participant in open technology ecosystems, is key to helping us move forward,” he wrote.
The CNCF and Kubernetes have become a force in the containerization space in a relatively short time. While Docker is another popular container technology that helps developers create containerized software, Kubernetes helps deploy and manage it all and Salesforce wants a closer relationship with the organization that’s running the project.

Featured Image: Mike Windle/Getty Images


Sony released some new stats today detailing the progression of sales for its PS4 console and PS VR headset systems. The numbers that matter: 70.6 million PS4 consoles, 617.8 million PS4 titles, 2 million PS VR headsets and 12.2 million PS VR titles.
Things appear to be moving along rather well in console-land, where Sony is almost certainly winning the console wars with Microsoft. Microsoft hasn’t released unit sales numbers since January of this year, when it announced that 26 million Xbox One units had been sold. In that time, Microsoft has released an updated version of the system, the 4K-playing Xbox One X. Sony released the souped-up PS4 Pro last year.
Meanwhile, Sony has also made significant inroads on sales of its VR headsets. The company announced in June that the company had sold 1 million headsets. The headset has been given a sort of price drop through the inclusion of a camera that had previously been an additional purchase.
With more than 60 million PS4 units sold, the company’s flagship console is rapidly approaching the lifetime sales of the PS3, which sold 70 million units over its entire life cycle. The PS4 first went on sale in North America in November of 2013. The PlayStation 2, the best-selling video game console of all time, sold 155 million units.


Last November, Facebook launched Instant Games, a new platform for gaming with friends inside the Messenger chat app. Today, the company is announcing a couple of notable new features for this gaming platform, including support for live streaming via Facebook Live and video chatting with fellow gamers.
The idea with Instant Games is to boost people’s time spent in Messenger by giving them something else to do besides just chat.
It also serves as Facebook’s newest attempt to return to dominance in social gaming. The company’s gaming platform years ago had earned a peak of a quarter-billion dollars per quarter on its 30 percent tax on in-game purchases, and it leveraged Facebook’s network effects to help games go viral.
But with the shift to mobile, Facebook’s position in gaming declined. These days, people spend more time gaming in native mobile apps built for iOS and Android devices.
When Instant Games first launched it offered 20 games across 30 markets, including titles like Pac-Man, Space Invaders, and Words With Friends Frenzy. Now that number has grown to over 70 games from more than 100 developers worldwide, the company says, including recently launched Tetris.
It will soon add other big names, like Angry Birds (built by CoolGames, who also built Tetris); Sonic Jump from SEGA; Disney Tsum Tsum, published by LINE; and a new game from Puzzle & Dragons maker, GungHo Online Entertainment, Inc.

To mark its one-year anniversary, Facebook is also debuting a couple of new features for its Instant Games: live streaming and video chat.
Live streaming begins rolling out today.
The feature, powered by Facebook Live, lets Messenger users broadcast their gameplay to their Facebook Page or profile. To use live streaming, you just tap on the new camera icon at the top right of the screen while gaming, then add a short description to be shared alongside your post. To start recording, you press the “Start Live Video” button.

The live broadcast is then shared to your Page or profile. When it ends, friends and fans can watch the saved recording.
With the live streaming feature, Facebook is playing catch up rivals like Twitch, YouTube and Microsoft, all of which today offer their own tools and services for live streaming games. However, in Facebook’s case, the addition is more casual – it’s more about sharing with friends, not monetizing a community through subscriptions, game sales, or custom chat icons, as you’d find on Twitch or YouTube, for example. (At least, not yet).

Facebook says it will soon start testing a feature that lets users video chat while gaming, as well. The feature will initially debut next year in Zynga’s Words with Friends, before expanding to other titles.
According to the company, over 245 million people video chat every month on Messenger. That makes for a large potential audience for a video chatting feature, which adds interactive element to the gaming experience. The feature will also challenge other popular video chatting and hangout apps popular with teens and young adults, like Fam, the app for group video chat via iMessage, for example, or Microsoft’s Skype, among others.
As part of today’s news, Facebook shared a few stats from its gaming partners. You can see these below:


San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors made it a lot tougher to test delivery robots this week. In a five to one vote, the committee handed down some strict regulations on on the cargo bots, which have been piloted on city sidewalks over the past several months. Supervisor Norman Yee, who initially proposed the regulation cited concerns around the ‘bots essentially taking over city sidewalks.
“Maybe five years from now, when we have 20,000 robots roaming around on the streets and people have to walk on the streets with the cars,” Yee told the Board. “Maybe then we’ll do something. That seems to be a problem we have in San Francisco, and I don’t want to let things get out of hand again.”
Yee’s initial language was more akin to an outright ban on the ‘bots. The restrictions have softened since its initial proposal, but things still don’t look great for startups at the forefront of robotic delivery services. 
According to the new rules, companies will be limited to three robots a piece, with nine total robots for the entire city. On top of that, the bots will be relegated to low population industrial areas, which kind of flies in the face of the whole notion of delivering stuff to people. 
Oh, and they’ll need constant human monitoring and won’t be able to travel more than three miles an hour — again, rendering much of their planned functionality moot.  In addition to fears around an urban robotic takeover, supporters of the law cited potential danger to pedestrians — in particular, children and the elderly. 
San Francisco’s robotic restrictions arrive on the tail of recent regulation in Virginia and Idaho, which allow delivery ‘bots to operate statewide. Unlike San Francisco’s version, those laws were created with the support of Starship Technologies, a robotics delivery startup based out of Estonia. Though those laws are restrictive in their own right, and rules do make things tougher for companies that aren’t Starship.
These sorts of robots have made some high profile appearances on San Francisco’s streets in the past year. In many cases, companies have teamed with food delivery services. Back in April, we spotted one ‘bot from Marble cruising the streets sporting a Yelp Eat24 logo. These regulations will no doubt put a sizable damper on plans to move beyond the earliest testing stages and could potentially convince startups to relocate to a more robot-friendly locale. 

Featured Image: Marble.io


Bitcoin prices are hockey-sticking on a hockey stick.
The cryptocurrency’s gains Thursday morning hit new heights, striking well above $18,000 across widely varying exchanges, coming to rest above $16,000 while the popular Coinbase exchange had been suffering major issues due to “record high traffic.”
Bitcoin was trading below $8,000 two weeks ago.
This is a truly, truly volatile game at this point; the swings didn’t appear as consequential when the market cap rested in the low billions, but as institutional pocketbooks push that cap to nearly $300 billion, the stakes are raised considerably.
What’s further disturbing is how widely the prices are varying across exchanges — there doesn’t seem to be a stable consensus on where the price is. While bitcoin prices on Coinbase’s GDAX exchange approached nearly $19,000 (!!!) this morning, others had the price sitting at thousands of dollars less.
via http://www.worldcoinindex.com/coin/bitcoin a few minutes ago
The price is currently trading at $15,499 on Bitfinex and $17,639 on GDAX. Coindesk’s bitcoin price index currently has the cryptocurrency trading around $16,000. These figures have probably swung by several hundred dollars since I typed this sentence.
The fact that even the most established exchanges are having trouble holding consensus on price isn’t great for buyers who can stand to lose (or gain) to exchange volatility on a currency that already has volatility baked into its ethos at this young stage.
The arbitrage opportunities appear to be significant here; generally, that alone is enough to correct the markets, but extreme congestion in both the bitcoin and ethereum blockchains are making it much harder to move bitcoin and ether between exchanges. For example, New York-based Gemini had temporarily suspended both bitcoin and ether withdraws this morning because the odds of a transaction actually processing were so low.
Something to always keep in mind:


а divorcing couple divides their Beanie Baby investment under the supervision of a judge, 1999: pic.twitter.com/NkMtsEvINe
— History Lovers Club (@historylvrsclub) December 7, 2017



 


Apple’s iPhone remains the most popular camera used by the Flickr community, the photo-sharing site revealed today in its annual review of camera rankings and top photos. This year, the iPhone beat out other camera makers – like Canon and Nikon, the number two and three respectively – by accounting for 54 percent of the top 100 devices used on the site, the company found. In addition, all top 10 devices of 2017 were iPhone models, Flickr says.
The site’s still sizable community of over 75 million registered users offers a good gauge of what devices people today use to take photos. Over the years, the top device has consistently been the iPhone – an indication of how consumers have moved away from traditional point-and-shoots for everyday photos. Many professionals also often turn to iPhone for their higher-quality photos thanks to Apple’s improvements to the smartphone’s camera.
The camera system on iPhones, in fact, has become a central focus for Apple’s technological advancements over the years, and has consistently remained of the top reasons to upgrade to the latest iPhone model. That remained true in 2017 as well, with the release of the iPhone 8 and iPhone X.

This year, iPhone has scored the majority (54%) of usage on Flickr’s site, up from 47 percent of the top 100 in 2016, and 42 percent the year prior. The iPhone also passed Nikon to score the spot as the second-most popular camera back in 2014.
Nikon was the third most popular brand with 18 percent in 2017, and Canon was number two, responsible for 23 percent of the top 100 devices.
In addition to the iPhone’s top ranking, Flickr’s list this year also shows the impact of smartphone use on the photography industry in general. The smartphone has become the dominant device choice by volume of uploads, Flickr notes.

This past year, smartphones accounted for half (50%) of all photos uploaded to Flickr, topping last year’s figure of 48 percent. DSLR usage has increased as well, up from 25 percent in 2016 to 33 percent in 2017.
The rise of smartphones and DSLRs have come at the expense of point-and-shoots in 2017. This category has seen the biggest drop of the year at 12 percent down from 48 percent in 2016 – a massive decline. Meanwhile, mirrorless remained at 4 percent of the total uploads for the third year in a row, the report stated.


E-commerce giant JD.com, the closest rival to Alibaba in China, is broadening its presence in Silicon Valley after it announced a collaboration with accelerator firm Plug and Play to seek out and work with promising U.S. startups.
The e-commerce giant said it will share technologies, including AI, cloud and smart supply chain tech, with the program generally and work together to launch a new cohort that taps into its extensive presence in China.
The new JD-backed program will be open to startups that cover “a range of areas and industries,” with a particular interest in those that operate in common areas such as robotics, AI, AR/VR and the cloud. Plug and Play will control the selection, with JD on hand to offer expertise, mentorship, technology and more. There will also be opportunities to tap into its network and sell products directly to Chinese consumers via its services, which processed a total of 658.2 billion RMB — or around $100 billion — in GMV during 2016.
JD listed on the Nasdaq in 2014 and today its market cap currently stands at $53 billion. The company opened its first Silicon Valley office in 2015 which is focused on R&D. This year, JD has increased its investment focus outside of China considerably, particularly in Southeast Asia where it has backed Go-Jek, Pomelo and Traveloka, and it is also keeping an eye on the early-stage scene in the U.S..
“JD believes that innovation should not only benefit new businesses, but also support traditional industries compete in today’s environment, and we look forward to identifying and partnering with like-minded startups in the US. Partnering with Plug and Play, we hope to unlock the potential of the next generation of companies, and help them succeed both in the US and China,” JD’s chief strategy office Dr. Jianwen Liao told TechCrunch in a statement.
The deal sees Plug and Play welcome its first partner from China. Earlier this year the Sunnyvale-based company announced a major expansion to launch nine new cohorts that cover verticals including fintech, food and beverage, IOT and mobility. Unlike its peers in the U.S., such as Y Combinator, Plug and Play has expanded overseas and its global presence includes locations as diverse as Brazil, Germany, Russia, Singapore, Spain and Canada.
“Partnering with JD.com, one of China’s premier technology players, will give startups access to both tremendous innovation resources, as well as a huge helping hand as they look to reach the Chinese market,” added Plug and Play CEO and founder Saeed Amidi.

Featured Image: VCG/Getty Images


Despite a belief that women don’t support each other, Tara&Co is bringing on three female leaders in the tech industry to serve on the lifestyle startup’s advisory council. Hearsay Systems CEO Clara Shih, Google GM of small and medium business ads Kim Spalding and Etsy COO Linda Kozlowski are all coming on board to advise Tara&Co.
“There’s a common meme that women don’t support each other and that’s why they don’t rise,” Tara&Co CEO Julia Lam told TechCrunch. “I don’t think that’s true.”
As an example, Lam noted the recent launch of Female Founder Office Hours, led by Sequoia Capital’s Jess Lee and other prominent female VCs in tech.
“When you have women at the top, it trickles down,” Lam said.
With Shih, Spalding and Kozlowski on board, Lam hopes to further Tara&Co’s mission of building beautiful yet functional products for the professional woman.
“For any startup to be successful, you need the best team — both staff internally and advisors and mentors to help guide you along the way to help you focus and iterate on your product, and future business strategies,” Lam said. “People who have seen the problem before, and can point you in the right direction so when you see a challenge, you can more easily navigate it.”
Tara&Co’s goal is to “fuse fashion and function,” Lam said. All of the products are designed to be aesthetically appealing yet have lots of hidden and convertible functionality.
“The women we design for need to look good, but also seek practical accessories as they navigate their busy schedules and often switch from work to play.”
Tara&Co was totally bootstrapped through the research and development process. In June, the company completed a crowdfunding campaign that resulted in more than $110,000 in funding. Already, the company is generating revenue, mostly from its Tracy 2-in-1 bag, which is named after former Pinterest engineer and Project Include co-founder Tracy Chou.


Pinterest today said it is hiring a new head of corporate and business development, bringing on former Facebooker Gary Johnson as it looks to continue to expand.
The hiring comes at a time when Pinterest recently saw its president, Tim Kendall, depart to start his own company. As Pinterest looks to ramp up its pitch to advertisers, it needs to bring on people who can deal with potential partners — as well as ones that can scout out new business opportunities that Pinterest can expand (or acquire its way) into. That’s going to be critical as the company positions itself as a company proficient in visual search and to break out of experimental advertising budgets.
Johnson was most recently Facebook’s director of corporate development, and prior to that worked at Credit Suisse and Apple in a number of operating and development roles. With a history as a VP at Credit Suisse, and corporate development at Facebook, Johnson is going to bring in a lot of experience to the company that is looking to grow internationally and continues to sell itself as a potential primary advertising product. That means dealing with a new slate of partners — which may have different needs or demands — abroad and trying to identify spots on Pinterest that make sense for expansion.
Pinterest has been somewhat acquisitive, though there hasn’t been anything particularly splashy (outside of Jelly, which may seem like more of a name than anything). It has acquired a number of teams, like the ones behind Highlight and Shorts, and also last year picked up Instapaper, which continues to live on in the App Store. But its new sweet spot where it wants to expand, visual search, can find some of its origins in the acquisition of VisualGraph back in 2014.
Pinterest is flush with some additional funding, having raised an additional $150 million earlier this year at a $12.3 billion valuation. The company now has more than 200 million users, and as it looks to build more products, like its camera search product Lens, it has to come up with a unique way to tell its story to potential partners that differs from Facebook or Google — which continue to dominate the awareness and intent slots of the online advertisement ecosystem.


In January, Microsoft acquired 3D optimization service Simplygon for an undisclosed sum. Today, we’re seeing the fruits of that buy with the launch of Simplygon Cloud, which the company hopes will help game developers integrate the optimization tool into their workflows to make content more friendly to resource-intensive AR and VR platforms.
The tool, launching on the Azure Marketplace, works in reducing polygon complexity for 3D objects so that they’re easier to render when compute resources are in high demand.
Simplygon takes the couch on the left (584K polygons) and makes the one on the right with just 5K polygons
This past week, Google announced their Poly API, which makes it easier for game developers to import 3D assets into what they’re working on. Google has largely been focusing on stylized low-poly objects for the most part as they look to make objects more friendly to the GPU restrictions of their Daydream VR platform.
Simplygon Cloud is operating in a similar vein for Microsoft; the company launched its Mixed Reality platform this fall with a bunch of VR headset makers, and resource constraints are now a much more real thing to Windows game developers in VR (and AR with HoloLens). As the name implies, what Microsoft is now doing is sending this capability to the cloud, so assets can be delivered across differently specced platforms with unique cloud-based 3D pipelines for object libraries.
What makes Simplygon a more attractive option compared to competitors is that it’s obviously easier to reduce complexity than increase it, so by allowing game devs to focus on building high-detail 3D objects and allowing Simplygon Cloud to minimize them for the appropriate platform, developers won’t have to rebuild objects as compute capabilities increase over time.
Simplygon Cloud is available in the Azure Marketplace now.


Following Lyft’s recent $1.5 billion funding round, the company has decided to bring on board Kristina Omari as its first-ever vice president of corporate development and investor relations as it continues to grow. Omari also happens to now be the highest ranking black female executive at Lyft.
Lyft, according to its June 2017 diversity report, has a leadership team that is just one percent black. Leadership includes managers who have direct reports. In taking a closer look at its EEO-1 report from 2016, Lyft had zero black women in management roles. Of the 54 black women Lyft employed at the time of the report, only 10 were professionals while 44 were in administrative support jobs. Omari, however, is not the only black woman in a management role or higher, a Lyft spokesperson told TechCrunch.
“I’m thrilled to be part of this incredible team and mission,” Omari said in a statement. “Lyft has had an amazing year, and I can’t wait to help the company continue delivering for passengers and drivers.”
Omari was most recently VP of corporate development at Fitbit and co-founder of diversity and inclusion non-profit organization BuildUp.
“We couldn’t be more excited to welcome Kristina to our growing team,” Lyft Chief Financial Officer Brian Roberts said in a statement. “She brings a proven track record of helping companies grow in a fast-paced environment. Her skills and experience will help Lyft continue to expand as we work toward our mission of improving people’s lives with the world’s best transportation.”


America’s top airlines are taking a stand against smart luggage. In a rare bit of solidarity, a number of the country’s top carriers have announced rules that would limit the use of high-tech bags, over fear of potential battery combustion. 
American Airlines led the charge on the ban. On Friday of last week, the carrier noted a policy change set to go into effect just after the busy holiday season. “Beginning Jan. 15, customers who travel with a smart bag must be able to remove the battery in case the bag has to be checked at any point in the customer’s journey. If the battery cannot be removed, the bag will not be allowed,” the company wrote in a statement.
The airline cited the potential risk of lithium battery combustion. The move echoes last year’s concerns around Samsung’s Galaxy Note 7 — though unlike that move, this is more of a proactive step. The company cites general potential concerns, rather than specific incidents. The ban is focused specifically on checked luggage, placed in the cargo hold of a plane. 
Interestingly, the selective ban does not apply should the customer bring the luggage into the main cabin as a carry on. Once checked, however, the luggage will only be allowed if the battery is removed from the bag. That option isn’t available on all pieces of smart luggage, rendering them essentially worthless. 
Both Delta and Alaska have released similar languages set for the same time frame, and CNN is reporting that United Continental and Southwest are set to follow suit soon. As the site notes, that covers roughly 80-percent of air traffic in the States, which, naturally, puts the nascent smart luggage industry in a pretty tough spot. These sweeping changes have left some startups feeling singled out. 
“The latest changes are an absolute travesty and is a huge step back not only for travel technology but it also presents an obstacle to streamlining and improving the way we all travel,” Bluesmart CEO Tomi Pierucci said in a strongly worded note to TechCrunch. “If they are going to ban smart bags, then they should be banning cameras, laptops, and phones being checked in or carried on. All of these have at some point caused issues with exploding batteries and yet it is smart bags and Bluesmart that is getting punished for this.”
The moves stems from the International Air Transport Association. Though the IATA doesn’t regulate these sorts of rules, unlike, say, the FAA. Rather, the airlines have implemented individual, but largely consistent versions of the rules. 
Some companies in the space appear to have prepared a ruling along these lines. In a statement provided to TechCrunch, Away CEO Steph Korey touted the company’s luggage design. “All Away Carry-Ons have batteries that can be easily removed. It’s a feature we thoughtfully designed, in part, because customers were asking for a charger that could be kept with them and used during flight.”
If the regulation stays in place, it will likely cause other players to implement similar functionality. In the meantime, however, it leaves a number of companies in a tough spot. “We create the category from an old industry which hasn’t had any innovation in the last 50 years,” says Pierucci. “And now they are trying to eliminate us and the category. By making a removable battery, the suitcase will become stupid.”


With the rise of Kubernetes as the de facto standard for container orchestration, it’s no surprise that there’s now a whole ecosystem of companies springing up around this open source project. Heptio is one of the most interesting ones, in no small part due to the fact that it was founded by Kubernetes co-founders Joe Beda and Craig McLuckie. Today, Heptio announced that it is teaming up with Microsoft on its Heptio Ark project, which it launched earlier this year.
Heptio Ark is a utility for managing backups and disaster recovery that helps you bring your Kubernetes clusters and volumes back up after your run into a major issue in your data center.
The plan is for Microsoft and Heptio to work together on strengthening Ark’s core capabilities, but also on making it a tool for moving Kubernetes applications across on-premise environments and — unsurprisingly — Microsoft Azure and the Azure Container Service (AKS — because Microsoft hasn’t come around to renaming it to ‘Azure Kubernetes Service’ just yet).
“Few real-world companies live solely in the public cloud,” said Heptio CEO Craig McLuckie. “It is incredibly important that the tools and practices they adopt when selecting their public cloud services work on-premises as well. Microsoft’s commitment to working with the open source community will not only benefit Azure customers, but strengthens the Kubernetes community.”
What’s also interesting about this move is that it brings the three Kubernetes co-founders together, with Beda and McLuckie at Heptio, and Microsoft’s Brendan Burns, who worked with the Heptio founders at Google when they launched the Kubernetes project into open source (and who was the lead engineer for Kubernetes at Google).
“I’m excited to see Heptio and Microsoft deliver a compelling solution that satisfies an important and unmet need in the Kubernetes ecosystem,” said Burns. “We’re working with Heptio to ensure that the integration of Ark and Azure is a best-of-breed solution for backing up on-premise Kubernetes clusters into the cloud.”

Featured Image: alzay/Getty Images


Burrow, a startup bringing a Casper-style approach to manufacturing and delivering sofas, is announcing that it has raised $4.3 million in seed funding.
This might not sound like the most obvious area for a startup to tackle — unless you’ve had the experience of trying to carry a couch up a twisty flight of stairs, or attempting to squeeze it through a narrow doorway.
Burrow’s sofas are delivered in a compact box, and assembly is only supposed to take 10 minutes, no tools required. They also have a modular design that makes them easier to move from house to house or apartment to apartment, and to expand with more seats when you have a larger living space.
You can buy Burrow’s sofas in one-, two-, three- or four-seat configurations — the three seater currently costs $1,095, with free shipping and a 30-day trial.
Stephen Kuhl explained via email that he and his co-founder Kabeer Chopra came up with the idea while they were studying at The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, after they both had negative experiences buying couches — Chopra had to wait weeks for his West Elm sofa, which he carried home to avoid the shipping cost, while Kuhl spent hours assembling his Ikea sofa.
“Typically, sofas are either cheap, flimsy and extremely annoying to set up or heavy, expensive and take months to ship,” Kuhl said. “Simply put, there is no affordable, convenient sofa for the modern consumer. Either buy something that’s basically disposable or overpay for something that may not even fit through the front door of your next home.”
The Y Combinator-backed startup launched in April and says it has been growing 20 percent month-over-month since then, currently hitting a $7 million annualized revenue run rate. It’s also expanded its product lineup with a chaise sectional and an ottoman, and it moved its manufacturing from Mexico City to Mississippi.
The seed round was led by Red & Blue Ventures (a firm focused on startups coming out of the University of Pennsylvania), with participation from Interplay Ventures, Twitch.tv Founder Justin Kan, Y-Combinator CEO Michael Seibel and retail executive Ken Pilot.
“Burrow is the most exciting consumer products company out of Wharton since Warby Parker,” said Brett Topche, managing director at Red & Blue Ventures, in the funding announcement.


Google is testing a new feature that will allow celebrities and other notable figures to answer users’ search queries directly in the form of “selfie” videos posted in the Google Search results. The company says this program is initially being piloted on mobile with a handful of people for now, including Priyanka Chopra, Will Ferrell, Tracee Ellis Ross, Gina Rodriguez, Kenan Thompson, Allison Williams, Nick Jonas, Mark Wahlberg, James Franco, Seth MacFarlane, Jonathan Yeo and Dominique Ansel.
Of course, the celebs aren’t answering users’ queries in real-time. Instead, Google has had them pre-record their videos in response to what it already knows are some of fans’ most-asked questions typed into the Google search box.
The videos provide answers to questions like “Can Will Ferrell really play the drums?” or “How many languages does Priyanka Chopra speak?” or “Can Tracee Ellis Ross sing?,” for example.
When users search for one of these queries, the video answers will appear at the top of the search results, above Google’s standard set of blue links.
After watching the first video, the carousel automatically switches to the next one in the celeb’s series of Q&A’s, or you can can choose to swipe through them yourself.

This isn’t the first time Google has opened up its search results to celebrities.
In March, the company announced that more organizations and celebs could take advantage of the “Posts on Google” feature. Initially an experiment during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, Posts on Google lets individuals post Twitter-like status updates right on Google’s search results pages. This year, Google expanded the feature to organizations like museums, sports teams and leagues, and people and firms associated with movie-making, later followed by local businesses.
Using Posts on Google, people could share images, videos, and GIFs, in addition to text.
With this launch, Google was trying to make its search engine itself a more social product, instead of only relying on the Twitter search results it aggregates to pull in these sort of shorter answers.
The new celeb video Q&A feature seems to take that idea a step further, turning previously run-of-the-mill search results into something that feels like it would be more at home on a mobile social app, like Instagram.
While Google has historically updated its search results to return answers and information beyond the world of text-based web pages, these celeb videos have a tinge of social envy to them, on Google’s part. The company has never figured out how to build a successful social platform of its own, having instead brought us creations like the overly engineered Google+, and various social app failures, like group chat app Spaces.
Given it can’t seem to build a real social platform, it’s now trying to make Google Search itself feel more social, it seems.
The feature may also increase users’ time on site using Google, which could impact the company’s bottom line.
The video results are appearing in mobile search results, and in the Android Google app. The iOS Google app is rolling out the videos over the course of the day, Google tells us.
[updated 1:20 pm et with rollout details]


On-demand labor marketplaces have been around for decades on the internet. Paying someone to identify a cat using Amazon Mechanical Turk or hiring someone to program a quick website on Upwork is easy — post a job, select someone, pay a few bucks and you’re done.
While hiring individuals is reasonably straightforward, building teams to accomplish specialized projects is a far more challenging problem, and few industries have as challenging a need as the pharmaceutical and medical devices industry.
Launching a new therapeutic might require hiring hundreds if not thousands of consultants, covering everything from Bayesian statistical design for clinical trials to market mapping and physician education. A single day’s delay could cost millions of dollars, so hiring the right people at the right time is crucial for a launch to go off without a hitch.
Today, that process is almost entirely manual, but Clora, a startup based in Boston, hopes to completely transform that process. The company is announcing a $3.3m seed round led by Spark Capital, with participation from Social Capital, Ludlow Ventures, Notation Capital, iSeed Ventures, v1 VC, and KohFounders.
The two founders of the startup, Rahul Chaturvedi and Leaya Martelli, came up with the concept while working day jobs in the pharmaceutical industry. Chaturvedi is a veteran of the industry, having headed up clinical affairs at Avedro, GI Dynamics, and Kaleido Biosciences over the past seven years. He worked with Martelli, a biotech recruiter, throughout those years, and constantly came back to the problem of how to hire the exact talent needed for their projects.
Leaving a promising (and safe) career in the pharma industry wasn’t easy for Chaturvedi. “The choice that I had to make was do I want to spend the next five to ten years of my life on new therapies that may or may not get to market, or spend my time and energy to build a technology platform that has the potential to fundamentally change how an industry operates?” He chose the latter, and left his job in September of 2016 to build Clora full-time.
Clora is a classic two-sided marketplace that matches biotech consultants with bio companies who need talent for projects. Where it gets tricky is the extraordinarily specific skill specialization required to complete projects. Clora’s front page funnel starts with 29 different specialities, ranging from legal and accounting to GxP Quality Assurance and Safety/Pharmacovigilance.
Chaturvedi emphasized that defining and building reputation is one of the most important long-term goals for Clora. “One of the issues with endorsements on LinkedIn is that they are noisy – anyone can endorse you. Reputation in this industry is really important.” Given that importance, Clora is designed to take into account the opinions of other experts to evaluate the work made by people on the platform. “We are able to use experts to vet other experts,” he noted.
Spark investor John Melas-Kyriazi led the round and will be joining Clora’s board. This will be Melas-Kyriazi’s third board on the East Coast, as he also holds observer seats on the boards of New York City-based Andela and Boston-based FreightFarms. I asked the SF-based investor why the heavy interest in the East Coast. “When we meet a great company we dig in, no matter where they are based.” Clearly a pattern, if not a theme.
Melas-Kyriazi noted that Spark has had a long interest in consumer marketplaces, with investments in companies like Postmates, and that while the firm has not traditionally looked at life sciences startups, the product clearly fit their investment interests. “The combination of this big problem and Rahul’s approach to using consumer product insights,” is what drove the decision to invest in the company, he said.
Ultimately, Chaturvedi hopes that the time and money saved from improving hiring processes across the pharma industry will lead to lower-priced therapeutics that also come to market much faster. “I have seen a lot that is great in the industry and a lot of what is holding us back, ” he said. With Clora, there might be a path forward to reshape how people work to build new therapies, and ultimately benefit us all.

Featured Image: Dawn Huczek/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


Netflix has been teasing the next season of Black Mirror at an excruciatingly slow pace.
But now, we have everything we need to emotionally prepare for Season 4, including a release date.
Yesterday, Netflix released the full Season 4 trailer, finally informing a desperate fanbase that the new season will be released on December 29. Ring in 2018 with hope and optimism, right?
If you haven’t been following along, here are the most important details:
The next season has six episodes. The titles of those episodes are U.S.S. Callister, Black Museum, Arkangel, Metalhead, Hang the DJ, and Crocodile. Each one has their own trailer, which you can check out below, in the order in which they were released:
Arkangel

Crocodile

Black Museum

Hang the DJ

Metalhead

U.S.S. Callister


Over the past several years, tech year-end lists have become as much of an annual tradition as Twilight Zone marathons and going to a bar to get away from the family on Christmas Eve. Apple dropped its big list today and surprise, there aren’t really too many surprises here — though it’s a useful reminder that, at least so far as entertainment is concerned, 2017 wasn’t a complete dumpster fire. 
In the world of apps, the company defines a quartet of “breakout” trends that defined the year in downloads. Health and mindfulness were, not surprisingly, a key point. Meditation apps like Calm got a big boost, no doubt spurred on by what turned out to be another ridiculously stressful year for most of us. Nothing like a little mindfulness to take one’s mind of the seemingly imminent collapse of organized society. 
Augmented reality also qualified as a breakout — and here at least, this appears to only be the tip of the iceberg. Keep in mind, ARKit really just got rolling this year, and the iPhone X only just hit the market. Sure, games like Pokemon Go helped spur initial interest in the technology, but efforts from big players like Ikea and MLB, combined with some really clever small developers seem poised to help AR really take off over the next couple of years. 
Moana, Disney’s computer animated tale of a teenager on a quest to save her people, topped the movie charts this year. Next in line was the standalone Star Wars movie Rogue One, followed by Wonder Woman, the well-received DC Comics film that managed to stand out in an era where it seems like every other film is a superhero flick. 
Everyone’s favorite Canadian rapper Drake found another spot at the top of the lists, with iTunes’ best selling record, More Life. Ed Sheeran’s ridiculously ubiquitous “Shape of You” was the year’s top song, and Apple gives a special nod to Taylor Swift’s Reputation, which currently sits at number three for the year, in spite of having been released less than a month ago. 
As for TV shows — Game of Thrones, obviously. The Walking Dead is up there as well, along with a couple of new shows, including Big Little Lies, This is Us, Victoria and The Americans. NPR interview stalwart Fresh Air held strong as the top podcast, and The Handmaid’s Tale took top honors on the book list, courtesy of a Hulu adaptation and general societal dystopia.


Technology has made buying stuff for your house a whole lot easier to do on a whim, but there haven’t seemed to be quite as many advancements in terms of ensuring that what you buy actually makes your space look good.
Modsy isn’t an augmented reality company as much as they are a 3D imaging startup that’s aiming to help you augment your living space’s style. Users can snap a few photos of a room in their house with any basic phone camera, then a short bit later Modsy reconstructs the space in 360 3D and sends you a couple totally new designs based on your “style genome,” which it calculates via a short questionnaire.
The startup announced this morning that they’ve closed a $23 million Series B round led by Advance Venture Partners. previous investors including Norwest Venture Partners, NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment and Comcast Ventures also participated in the round. The company has raised $33.75 million to date.
“Thanks to advancements in 3D renderings, the days of guessing how furniture and decor will look inside a space is long gone,” said Modsy CEO Shanna Tellerman. ““This round of funding
indicates that the industry is at a tipping point, and Modsy is leading the charge by taking a technology-first approach to transforming the home design market.”
Since launching to consumers, Modsy has spent more and more time automating steps in the process related to both crafting the 3D space and designing it. They’ve been able to decrease the amount of time that humans are needed in the process by an impressive 90 percent and have accordingly been able to slash the price of their service from $99 to $69.
The startup people to get a more definite photo-realistic look into how specific furniture would look in their house than current AR tech is really capable of. Better yet the entire redesigned digital space is entirely shoppable and allows users to click and purchase things that catch their eye for the room. With the 3D Modsy Style Editor (in beta) you can then swap out items based on what you’ve purchased and update the overall look before progressing.
 

For users that do want a more human touch, you can get a certified style advisor to help you through the process of designing or redesigning your space for $199. Modsy’s customer tend to be those going through major life stages, moving into a new home with their significant other, having a child etc.
A major focus for Modsy has continued to be partnerships, Tellerman says the company has joined efforts with more than 100 retail partners like Target, West Elm, Wayfair and others. One such pairing has been with Crate and Barrel on a co-branded CrateDesignStudio room designer which uses Modsy’s service to redesign customers’ spaces entirely with C&B furniture.
You can take the service for a whirl here.


Instagram has changed a lot since its acquisition by Facebook in 2012.
The original premise was so simple. Beautify your photo and share it to your friends in a couple clicks. Like your friends photos with a simple scroll and a double-tap.
Now, Instagram has videos and gifs (Boomerang). It has its own set of superstars and an algorithmic feed that helps those superstars dominate users’ feeds, including mine. And it has a direct messaging system.
Today, Instagram is testing out yet another change with the launch of a standalone Instagram Direct app. For now, the app is only available in Uruguay, Chile, Turkey, Italy, Portugal and Israel.
The Verge first noticed the test.
Instagram had this to say on the test:
We want Instagram to be a place for all of your moments, and private sharing with close friends is a big part of that. To make it easier and more fun for people to connect in this way, we are beginning to test Direct – a camera-first app that connects seamlessly back to Instagram.
The app will let you create and share stories, and give you access to exclusive filters, Boomerang and other creative tools on Instagram. And, of course, your Instagram friends are added instantly to the Instagram Direct app.
This begs the question: Why build a separate app for stuff that’s already available and functional within Instagram? The most obvious answer is that this is yet another barrage in the Instagram’s assault on Snapchat.
And it’s been working. In January, TechCrunch reported that the launch of Instagram Stories had resulted in lower usage of Snapchat Stories. The launch of Instagram Direct, with its perception of more private and intimate one-to-one conversations, could feasibly have the same effect on Snapchat’s direct messaging.






There’s also the question of Messenger. Facebook is clearly making a play to get younger users back on the Facebook platform with the launch of Facebook Messenger Kids. The launch of Instagram Direct may be another part of that strategy.
The only specifics we have, if you can even call them specifics, is that the app will launch globally next year after Instagram has worked out the bugs and responded to user feedback.

Featured Image: Bloomberg/Getty Images


PullRequest, a Y Combinator Summer 17 graduate, announced a $2.3 million seed round today led by Google’s new AI fund, Gradient Ventures.
The Slack Fund, Fika Ventures, Defy Ventures, Lynett Capital, FundersClub and Joe Montana’s Liquid2 Ventures also participated.
The company has been concentrating on providing code review as a service, a task that often gets lost in today’s high-speed agile development cycles. The company has set up a system of on-demand code reviewers who check for bugs, security issues, coding standards and performance problems.
That wouldn’t seem to have anything to do with the focus of Google’s Gradient Ventures mission, but company founder Lyal Avery says the road map for his company goes far beyond the code reviewer service.
They plan to bring automation to the coding process, so they can pick up issues automatically such as when dependency code, open source pieces in a particular application, have a critical update.
Perhaps it’s not a coincidence that Slack also participated in this round as one of the first automation pieces PullRequest is working on involves a Slack bot to inform developers when one of those dependency pieces requires updating. While that project is still in Alpha testing right now, it’s the general direction of the company, Avery explained.
Avery recognizes that as his company builds up its code reviewing service, it’s going to create a mass of data about the coding process and common reviewer issues. He says that they are scoring and reviewing their code review projects to build that data set. While he doesn’t see a time when humans are removed from the reviewing equation, he does see using this data to automate the repair of common problems. “At the end of the day, it’s about how efficiently we drive code review,” he said.
When we spoke to Avery in August, the company had 200 reviewers and 300 companies on the platform. Today, it has 1000 companies and 1900 reviewers as the company has grown in leaps and bounds since then.
Avery moved back to Austin, Texas after graduating from Y Combinator, and has since hired four more people for a total of six employees. They plan on using this money to continue to grow the company and have plans to double the number of employees next month alone and go from there.

Featured Image: Getty Images


Less than a month after raising $100 million led by Fidelity, real-estate startup Compass is striking while the iron is hot. The company has now picked up an even bigger investment of $450 million, this time from the SoftBank Vision Fund, plus another $50M in secondary deals, to fill out a vision of its own: taking its real estate rental and sales platform global.
New York-based Compass is now valued at $2.2 billion post-money, up from $1.8 billion just four weeks ago, with $775 million raised to date.
The massive round essentially overlapping with the previous round — Allon was closing the SoftBank deal in Japan on the same day that the Fidelity investment was getting announced — is not the first notable financial milestone for the startup.
Compass set the pace on this front with its debut back in 2012, when it was called Urban Compass and announced funding of $8 million from an elite group of backers, at the time one of the largest-ever seed rounds for a startup (all things are relative: $8 million seems almost quaint now).
Ori Allon, the co-founder and chairman of Compass, said in an interview that the plan is not only to keep growing in the US from its current footprint of 11 cities — that was one of the stated purposes for the last $100 million in funding — but now to turn that strategy to a wider, global stage.
“We realised that to hit the goal of where we want to be in the next two to three years — Compass everywhere, in every major city worldwide — we needed another partner, and that is the vision Softbank is aligned with,” Allon said in an interview. 
The Softbank Vision Fund is the tech and investment firm’s massive, nearly $100 billion fund with partners that include the likes of Apple, Qualcomm, Foxconn and a variety of Middle Eastern investors that is taking huge bets on what it believes are or will emerge as the category leaders across a number of areas. Investments include Uber, WeWork, MapBox, Slack and now Compass, among others.
Some of what has made this startup such a confident bet with founders has been the startup’s pedigree. Allon has an engineering background and had already sold startups to Google and Twitter, and the tech in those startups proved to be foundational to each company’s search business; co-founder and CEO Robert Reffkin is an ex-Goldman Sachs banker who has his own gilded background.
And some of the interest has been because of the tech itself: originally conceived as a kind of disruptor to the business and potential of hyperlocal information, Compass finally took the form of doing this in relation to one specific aspect of living locally: the place where you actually live. Its platform is a clutter-free, easy to read, pared-down but informative list of places that are already vetted before they are placed on the site to match a profile of a typical Compass user.
As for who that user is, Compass so far has focused on high-end properties and customers, which has given it a strong funnel for high values and good margins, as well as a steady stream of people with income to spend on their housing. (And yes, the plan longer term is to widen that out, Allon said, but for now there is still more to do in its current market segment.)
Compass is most certainly not the first company to build a platform to connect would-be home buyers / renters with properties — there are giants like Zillow, Trulia, Redfin, Homes.com, and Rent. com — but you might think of Compass as the equivalent of the launch of the first iPhone to the various other smartphones that preceded it. It has streamlined what it’s trying to do, and is carefully controlling the experience, with a firm eye on who will be using it — all with the benefit of hindsight of what had come before it.
Perhaps most of all, it seems that for investors, the proof has been in the pudding.
The funding comes on the back of huge growth for Compass. Its roster of top agents — a key part of the company’s two-sided business that is both resident-facing and agent-facing — has grown 500 percent in the last 24 months, and this is helping to bring in more choice inventory to meet demand. The company itself is on track to hit 16,000 transactions and more than $14 billion in sales this year, as well as more than $350 million in revenue.
“Real estate is a huge asset class, but the sector has been relatively untouched by technology and remains inefficient and fragmented,” said Justin Wilson, a senior investment professional at SoftBank’s Vision Fund, in a statement. “Compass is building a differentiated, end-to-end tech platform that aggregates across diverse data streams to support agents and homebuyers through the entire process, well beyond the initial home search. With disruptive technology and unique data advantages, Compass is well-positioned for future growth in a sector that represents trillions in transaction volume.”


Historically, financial organizations have watched forlornly through the front window while startups have adopted new and cool tools like Slack, Twitter, and Convo. Now they can join in the fun with something called Echofin.
You can imagine the product as a sort of hyper-powered Slack for financial groups. Users can message each other and view portfolios and investment news and small groups can get together and create paid rooms for sharing proprietary or important trading advice.
“Traders need to communicate and exchange ideas, discuss the market, get educated, post signals and share their thoughts on trading positions,” said co-founder Kris Leonidou. “300 million retail traders use whatever is available: irrelevant and incoherent solutions since there was no right tool for them.”






“Any team owner in Echofin can set up public or pay-to-access rooms, define billing plans and make them available to their users. Users pay directly within the chatrooms and instantly unlock access to the premium rooms. And that’s how we make our money: 10% on each transaction through the platform. Creating a team is totally free.”
Private teams cost $12 a month per user.
They’ve raised a seed round and started out in 2013 when they launched at TechCrunch Disrupt. Their new version is working on creating brand new ways for traders and enthusiasts to connect online.


Whether your hair is straight, curly, color-treated or oily, the texture is unique. And a newly launched startup called Prose thinks your hair products should be, too.
Prose is working with hair salons and stylists to build custom formulations for clientele. They’ll not only take into account a person’s hair type but whether their city has pollution, wind or humidity. Prose will also work with customers who want their products to be Vegan or GMO-free.
The New York-based startup is raising $5.2 million to kick off its launch. The round is led by Forerunner Ventures, with participation from Correlation Ventures. Existing investors include Lerer Hippeau Ventures and Maveron, with its total capital raised amounting to $7 million.
CEO Arnaud Plas used to work at L’Oreal and said he “spent a lot of time… trying to understand deep pain points that we could fix.” He wants Prose “to make personalized hair care accessible.”
Kirsten Green, who invested in Prose through Forerunner Ventures, said that this fits here investment thesis of “micropersonalization.” She spoke of Prose’s “growing intelligence layer around machine learning,” which will help customize the items.
While competitors like Function of Beauty offer custom products based on an online quiz, Prose takes it one step further by getting stylists involved. Salons in San Francisco and New York have signed up to work with Prose, helping to design shampoos, conditioners and hair masks for their customers. The salons then take a 25% commission.
But it’s not cheap. Just 8.5 ounces of shampoo will cost between $28 and $38. The cost of personalization is expensive and the items are not yet priced for profitability.
Plas said he will use the funding for research and development. Prose manufactures the items in France.


To hear Naspers and the Latin American marketplace developer Movile tell it, food is the thing to make a company king in international markets.
Naspers, a South African-based global investor and media conglomerate, has joined the private equity firm Innova Capital to funnel another $82 million into Movile — primarily to increase Movile’s stake in iFood, a Latin American food delivery vendor.
Movile has business lines that include logistics and delivery, ticketing, online gaming and education, but it’s the food business that has drawn the attention of most investors.
“The food delivery market is expanding rapidly across the globe and iFood is at the forefront of innovation and growth as the leading food delivery business in Latin America,” said Movile chief executive Fabricio Bloisi, in a statement. “With that in mind, we will continue to invest in the company to scale iFood’s technology platform and accelerate product development so they can fulfill more orders and also provide an even better experience for restaurants and consumers.”

The new capital infusion brings Movile’s total haul from investors to over $250 million… Almost as if Naspers were willing the company to market dominance through the steady infusion of heaps and heaps and heaps of cash.
The steady stream of capital is showing results. As of September 2017, the company had reached 6.2 million monthly orders and become the largest food delivery company in Latin America.
Movile’s chief executive, Bloisi, has always viewed food delivery as a gateway to other kinds of commercial transactions in the “online to offline” vein that seems critical to success in emerging markets that don’t have robust logistics or delivery systems in place.
While the company made its start in gaming and education through company subsidiaries like PlayKids, it’s the iFood business — supplemented by Apontador for online reviews of local business; Rapiddo, for delivery services; and Sympla, the ticketing on-demand platform — that show the breadth of Bloisi’s vision for his company.
“At Innova we are very excited to continue to support Movile’s talented team in its growth, helping accelerate the ifood and tickets platforms and investing in new businesses that can leverage the active user base that Movile has built. We believe Movile has many opportunities to continue to grow exponentially, including in logistics and financial services, among others” said Veronica Allende Serra, Founding Partner of Innova Capital Fund, in a statement.
With Movile, Naspers is taking one of its bigger bets. From its humble roots as a media company in South Africa in 1915, the company has grown into one of the largest tech investors in the world — thanks in part to a series of shrewd investments in China and Russia. The company’s portfolio includes Tencent, one of China’s technology powerhouses, and Mail.ru, the Russian tech giant.
Other companies in the Naspers portfolio include: Avito, Brainly, Codecademy, Delivery Hero, eMAG, Flipkart, ibibo, iFood, letgo, Media24, Movile, MultiChoice, OLX, PayU, Showmax, SimilarWeb, SinDelantal, Swiggy, Twiggle and Udemy.

Featured Image: Xsandra/Getty Images


Honda is putting the focus on artificial intelligence after it announced a partnership with SenseTime, a Chinese startup valued at over $1 billion, that will power its autonomous cars of the future.
SenseTime, which raised a $410 million funding round this past summer and counts Qualcomm among its investors, is particularly well known for its object recognition technology which has been used by both public and private entities in China. The startup has agreed to a five-year joint R&D project with Honda that will see its AI and deep learning smarts combined with Honda’s automotive focused-AI tech to develop solutions that the car-maker hopes will enable self-driving cars to operate safely in urban areas.
Honda’s own AI falls into ‘scene understanding,’ ‘risk prediction,’ and ‘action planning,’ all of which relates to gauging urban motoring scenarios and responding to them in the right way. It said earlier this year that it plans to introduce cars with level 4 automation by 2020.
The Japanese auto giant unveiled its new innovation lab in Tokyo earlier this year, which included an offshoot called R&D Center X that’s focused on robotics, energy and AI. Tech-wise, this year we’ve seen plenty of neat concepts ranging from an EV aimed that’s slated for production in 2019, to a mini car with ’emotional intelligence,’ and a riding assistant for motorbikes.
Honda has also inked partnerships with Google’s Waymo, Grab in Southeast Asia and Israel-based automotive hub DRIVE.
SenseTime is widely tipped to land a $227 million investment from Alibaba before the year is out. Adding a big name automotive player as a partner is sure to only make its business more attractive to other investments and collaborators.


Earlier this year, Syte.ai, which develops visual search technology for fashion brands, raised $8 million from investors including top Asian tech firms NHN, Line Corp. and Naver. Now it’s unveiling a new API that makes adding visual search accessible to more e-commerce sites.
Called Visual Search for All, the white-label feature can be integrated into retail websites or apps within 24 hours and lets shoppers upload photos saved on their phones, like screenshots from Instagram, to find similar products for sale. It is based on the same technology as Syte.ai’s search tools for large fashion brands and publishers, which shows shoppers relevant items when they hover a cursor over part of an image (some of Syte.ai’s clients include Marks & Spencer and Kohl’s).
Syte.ai co-founder and chief marketing officer Lihi Pinto Fryman says once it indexes a brand’s product feed, Visual Search for All can be added to a site’s search bar in less than a day by adding a line of HTML. Clients pay a monthly license fee based on the number of image-matches likely to be used.
In comparison, other visual search tools can take weeks or months to implement and train to work with a brand’s product feed, says Fryman, and are often unaffordable for Syte.ai’s target customers, including smaller retailers that sell to millennials and teenagers.
Facebook Messenger and Line users can try out Syte.ai’s technology by sending images to its chat bot, Syte Inspire.


Ford has put a lot of focus on China’s electric vehicle market — with a local joint venture expected to lead to 15 electric or hybrid models on sale in the country by 2025 — and today the automotive giant announced a tie-in with Alibaba to fulfill its ambitious goals.
The scope of alliance is fairly broad and vague at this point, but a large chunk of  the”strategic collaboration” appears to be based around developing a direct sales channel to reach consumers in China.
Alibaba is the country’s largest e-commerce firm that’s best known for its Taobao marketplace and T-Mall service for brands. The alliance could see Ford utilize T-Mall to sell cars to consumers — the company has sold items like cargo jets via Taobao before — but there could be room for collaboration within Alibaba’s ‘Next Retail’ strategy that unites online and offline commerce.
The Chinese giant recently invested in national hypermarket operator Sun Retail in a move that it hopes will increase the synergies between e-commerce and physical retailing, and automotive is one vertical where that mesh is more obviously beneficial. People like to touch, feel and drive cars before they buy them, but yet doing basic research and purchasing online is more productive than visiting multiple showrooms.
A source also indicated that Alibaba may consider a “vending machine” style approach to selling cars. We’ve seen such an approach before — like this compact 15-story operation in Singapore that looks like a child’s toy box and examples in Germany — and that could be one branch of Alibaba’s retail strategy in the future.

Autobahn Motors’ vending machine showroom in Singapore
Beyond sales, the companies said they will explore opportunities to work together on technology, including cloud computing for big data analysis, digital marketing services and using Alibaba’s AliOS operating system.
China’s state-owned media predicted than more than 800,000 green vehicles would be sold this year, up more than 50 percent on 2016, thanks in no small part to a government incentive that covers 26 different models. Data is scant, but that’s almost certain to make China the world’s largest market for electric vehicles. Already it has attracted Tesla, which is planning its own China-based factory, while VW is among the international firms that has invested in order to make its mark in the country.
“China is one of the world’s largest and most dynamic digital markets, thriving on innovation with customers’ online and offline experiences converging rapidly. Collaborating with leading technology players builds on our vision for smart vehicles in a smart world to reimagine and revolutionize consumers’ mobility experiences,” Jim Hackett, Ford President and CEO, said in a statement.
Executive chairman William C. Ford Jr. was even more direct in his assessment of the importance of China.
“When I think of where E.V.s are going, it’s clearly the case that China will lead the world in E.V. development,” he told the New York Times.
Alibaba announced its first internet car in partnership with Chinese firm SAIC last year — the vehicle runs AliOS — and it claims to be powering more than 400,000 vehicles across China’s roads today. This deal with Ford might not culminate in a Ford car running AliOS, but it does represent a first deal between Alibaba and an automaker from outside of China. That makes it a significant tie-in even the exact nature of the arrangement is rather frustratingly unclear at this point.

Featured Image: Scott Olson/Getty Images


Chattermill, a London-based startup that uses ‘deep learning’ to help companies make better sense of customer feedback, has raised £600,000 in seed funding. Backing comes from Entrepreneur First — Chattermill is an alumnus of the company builder — and Avonmore Developments, along with a number of angel investors, including Jeff Kelisky, CEO of Seedrs.
Founded in 2015 by friends Mikhail Dubov and Dmitry Isupov, Chattermill is one of a number of startups that are tackling the problem of how to sift through and respond to customer feedback and across multiple channels. With that data growing exponentially, the company is employing deep learning to help do the job in, arguably, a much more scalable and potentially more accurate way.
“We help companies understand and improve their customer experience: we give companies insight that helps them craft better products and services,” Dubov, Chattermill’s CEO, tells me. “Companies with best in class customer experience ultimately have more loyal customers and find it easier acquiring them in the first place. Customer feedback is the best data to understand customer experience and while most companies have a lot of customer feedback, few have the tools to extract insight from it”.
He says the startup’s solution is to apply the latest deep learning techniques to analyse customer feedback in a way that is tailored for each company. “In addition to this we provide an analytics dashboard and automated alerts that make it very easy to take action on the insight across the business,” he says.
Specifically, Chattermill collates all feedback channels in one place and then “builds a customised deep learning model to extract easily actionable insight”. It can then measure sentiment to see how customers are feeling about each part of the overall experience, from design of an app down to speed of delivery and attitude of customer care agents.
In terms of how it collects customer feedback data in the first place, Chattermill integrates many standard tools used for soliciting and monitoring customer feedback and sentiment, such as SurveyMonkey, Zendesk, TypeForm or Salesforce, in addition to aggregating feedback from Net Promoter Score surveys, reviews, support tickets and social media.
The ten-person Chattermill team is currently working with customers across sectors that include, fintech, e-commerce, travel and gaming. “We work with consumer businesses that have a large customer base across industries,” says Dubov. “Notable examples are Transferwise, HelloFresh and Just Eat. Within these companies we work with the product, customer service and customer experience teams”.


Update: After the negative reaction from Patreon creators, the company updated its blog post about the fee change with a more detailed explanation of how it will supposedly ease confusion over payments. Judging from the response on Twitter, however, many creators feel Patreon hasn’t adequately addressed how the changes will affect their patrons, who are, after all, the people pledging money.
Patreon announced a new service fee policy that it says will help creators keep more money, but many are worried because they believe it will instead discourage their patrons from pledging.
The crowdfunding platform for artists currently takes a fee of 5% (creators also pay fees charged by payment processors like Stripe or PayPal) from each pledge. That changes on December 18, when patrons will start paying 2.9% plus 35 cents for each individual pledge, according to Patreon’s product update page.
For patrons who back per-post creators, the 2.9% plus 35 cents service fee will be added to all paid posts. Creators don’t have the option to cover or remove service fees from their pledges.
Patreon says the reasoning behind its new policy is to let creators keep a larger cut of each pledge. “With this update, creators will now take home exactly 95% of each pledge with no additional fees,” the company explained on its update page. “In the past, a creator’s income on Patreon varied because of processing fees every month. They could lose anywhere from 7-15% of their earnings to these fees. This means creators actually took home a lower percentage of pledges than their patrons may have realized.”
It added that “Creators often take home a lower percentage of their Patreon income than patrons may realize. Standardizing our fees across the board provides consistent expectations and more money for creators on Patreon.”
Many Patreon creators, however, quickly criticized the change, arguing that it will turn away patrons, particularly people who prefer to pledge small amounts to multiple creators.
For example, comic artist Gibson Twist said on Twitter that he expects to lose many backers because the new fees will increase most of their current pledges by more than a third. Twist added that as a patron himself, his own charges will also climb significantly if he needs to add 35 cents every time he makes a pledge.

Some pretty troubling news from @Patreon about changes in how they charge Patrons. I’m going to lose a lot of my backers over this. Still looking into it, but I’m very unhappy about this.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

Still a little bewildered that it’s real, but they’re now going to add an additional 35 to the cost of every pledge, plus another 2.9%, which will increase most of my Patrons’ pledges by more than a third. I wouldn’t pay that, I wouldn’t expect anyone else to either.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

They’re trying to sell it to us as “You get a bigger % of the money!” but a bigger percentage of less money isn’t a selling point. Also, are we not supposed to notice the huge spike in how much Patreon takes of my supporters’ coin? Is this right?
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

They’re trying to sell it to us as “You get a bigger % of the money!” but a bigger percentage of less money isn’t a selling point. Also, are we not supposed to notice the huge spike in how much Patreon takes of my supporters’ coin? Is this right?
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

This is not to mention the extra that will be charged to Patrons supporting many artists, getting dinged 35+ cents each time. Someone supporting 20 people at a buck, that $20 jumps to over $27.50. As a Patron myself, I’ll see my charges increase by nearly 40%. That’s significant.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

Patreon’s FAQ on this change reads very “Isn’t it great? No down side here!” but this change is almost certainly going to lead to me shutting down my Patreon account. I’m not interested in gouging my audience in something I don’t believe benefits me or them at all.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

Meanwhile, just yesterday, they sent me an email talking about what a “mindblowing year” 2017 has been, so I’m not convinced they’re hurting for cash.
Please, @Patreon, don’t do this. This will hurt a lot of artists, and I am one.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

Some quick math and the numbers are jarring. Right now, artists pocket 80-85ish% of what our Patrons pay. Under the new system, we’ll get roughly 70% of what most Patrons pay. They’re selling to us as “You get a higher % of the money!” but in truth, we’re getting a lot less.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 
Some patrons also said that the new service fee will incentivize people to make a large pledge to one creator instead of supporting several with smaller amounts because they don’t want their fees to add up, which hurts artists who depend on getting many $1 pledges.

The extra cost isn’t tiny if you pledge small amounts to many creators. Pledging $100 to 1 creator will now cost $103.25 which is reasonable. Pledging $1 each to 100 creators will now cost $138 which is not reasonable.
— James a.k.a TPRJones (@TPRJones) December 7, 2017

 

it has little to do with the actual fee and more to do with passing it on to the patron, because while creators “”make more”” this change doesn’t even consider the mentality behind pledging small amounts and why people do that at all
— radruler @ midwestern furry festival (@Radruler) December 7, 2017

 

Small shows like ours get support from listeners paying a few bucks a month from fans. Many creators believe this will shrink the number of shows people will be willing to support.
— Todd Faulkner (@ToddFaulkner) December 7, 2017

 
Patreon, which was founded in 2013 and has raised about $107 million in funding so far, says it has more than one million subscribers who pay an average of $12 per month to more than 50,000 creators. Its success prompted Kickstarter to retool Drip, its subscription service for independent musicians, to compete more directly with Patreon. Other rival crowdfunding platforms for creators include Flattr and Steady.
While creators can ask supporters for pledges on their own using PayPal, Stripe and other payment services, Patreon’s ease of use, thanks to tools like its API, and popularity helps many make an income (or at least not lose money) from their art. This is especially important for creators who rely on YouTube, but saw their revenue plunge this year as a result of changes to its advertising policies—(an event known as the “adpocalypse“). For them, Patreon’s new service fees represent a potential double whammy and are yet another reminder that the online platforms that help them make a livelihood can also very quickly take it away.
TechCrunch has contacted Patreon for comment.


B Capital, the investment firm from Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin backed by BCG, has stepped into India after it backed smart point-of-sale company Mswipe in its first deal in the country.
The U.S.-Asia fund is investing $10 million into Mumbai-based Mswipe alongside DSG Consumer Partners in what is an extension to a Series D round announced this summer. Originally pegged at $31 million, the addition extends the round to more than $40 million.
Mswipe was founded in 2011 and it has now raised a total of $65 million from investors.
The company’s mission is to widen the availability of financial services in India, but rather than going after newer tech like consumer wallets, Mswipe has stayed focused on the humble point-of-sale device.
The company makes POS devices that are more lightweight and affordable than traditional service providers, while it cuts out middlemen to offer its own customer services to reduce complication and cost. Mswipe founder and CEO Manish Patel told TechCrunch that his firm focuses on providing a reliable service that avoids the traditional (and somewhat unreliable) telephony network that others use. It initially targeted under-represented SMEs and mid-sized retailers but today it also caters to larger customers.
“We are so efficient that [our POS] works even on a basic 2G connection,” he explained. “Merchants prefer stable to fast, you need reliability.”
Patel said that Mswipe currently has POS devices with over 290,000 merchants across India, with 15,000-18,000 new signups each month. Those figures, he added, make it the fifth largest in the industry but he believes it can take fourth place over the next six months.
While the likes of Paytm, MobiKwik and Ezetap have accrued tens of millions of customers for mobile wallet solutions, Patel believes that India’s 900 million cards (mainly debit but also credit) are a more viable option for financial inclusion, but they are hugely underserved by a lack of acceptance at retailers.
“The number of POS terminals [in India] was pathetically low when we started out [at just 800,000] — it didn’t take a genius to figure out something was wrong and that it was ripe for disruption,” he explained.
Today, he argues that with just 2.5 million terminals across the country, more progress is needed.
“Even Turkey [with a population of 80 million] has more terminals than India,” Patel added. “Terminals are still where they were 15 years ago and it’s about time someone did something about them.”
While he appreciates the progress that the likes of Paytm have made, Patel is adamant that the absolute numbers aren’t moving the needle across India yet.
“We’ve watched with very curious interest with all the froth on mobile payments. In India, the primary store of money will always be a bank account. You have multiple means of accessing your account, but once money is in the digital wallet, if it has to move back into your bank account it has to ride [financial] rails and it will cost you,” he explained, adding that, for now firms like Paytm have covered that cost.
He also explained that, in his mind, fewer than 200 million of India’s smartphone users are “truly online” 24/7 which makes relying on an app for payments unrealistic for the majority of the country.
That said, Mswipe POS terminals do accept payment from digital wallets like Google Tez, Samsung Pay and UPI, the Indian government backed payment protocol. Beyond payments, Mswipe also offers inventory management and other basic business services in addition to SME financing options.
The deal sees Saverin join the Mswipe board.
B Capital has a total fund size of around $180 million and offices in California and Singapore. Its deal to date have included logistics startup Ninjavan in Southeast Asia, Singapore’s CXA insurance firm, healthtech companies SilverCloud Health, Evidation Health, and Bright.md.
Note: Article updated to correct that Mswipe is based in Mumbai not Bangalore


WorldRemit, a London-based startup with some 2 million users that offers a quick way for people to send money to each other with a focus on developing markets, has raised more funds to help it take on the likes of Western Union in the remittances market, estimated by the World Bank to be worth some $596 million globally this year, and ramp its user number to 10 million.
The company has picked up $40 million — a Series C round that sources tell us brings the company’s valuation to around $668 million (or ‘just under £500 million’ in the figure we were given in local currency by our sources).
The funding was led by a new, strategic investor: LeapFrog Investments, the firm founded in 2007 and backed by billions from the likes of Prudential, JP Morgan and the Omidyar Network specifically to make investments into financial and healthcare businesses improving services in emerging markets, specifically in regions like Africa and Asia. Previous investors Accel, TCV and an unnamed individual backer also participated.
This represents a decent leap for the startup, which was valued at $500 million when it last raised money — $45 million in February 2016.
Ismail Ahmed, who co-founded WorldRemit with Catherine Wines and is its CEO, said in an interview that the idea will be to use the funding in three key areas.
The first of these is to increase the number of countries where payments will be able to originate. Currently, the company lets people from 50 countries send money through to 148 countries, and Ahmed wants to bring complete parity to those figures, so that people can transfer money from any country to any country where WorldRemit operates. Specifically with this round, that functionality will get turned on in Africa.
“Half of our transactions today go to Africa, and those are mostly digital transactions going into to mobile money accounts in services like M-Pesa. This means every day we trade with all the assorted currencies that are in use in Africa,” he explained. “I think the next phase of our growth is to turn those ‘receive’ countries into ‘send’ countries. That’s the demand we’ve seen. In the past we didn’t want to do that because we didn’t want to transact in cash, but now because our users are making most digital transactions, we can.”
He points out that 90 percent of WorldRemit’s customers — 1 million users — are using smartphones for their transactions, and that money transfer services are a key driver of getting those smartphones in the first place (that other? messaging services, he said; more on that below).
That is a pretty impressive statistic in itself, considering how low down African countries generally have been in world rankings for internet and telephony access. Targeting these wider problems, in fact, is one reason that WorldRemit was first approached by LeapFrog.
“This investment is an opportunity to bring a global leader in digital remittances into the LeapFrog portfolio,” said Stewart Langdon, partner at LeapFrog Investments. “WorldRemit’s model is uniquely suited to scale and offers a best in class service that is vital to the livelihood of millions of consumers in LeapFrog’s core markets. The company also has a huge potential to expand globally – a combination that puts it at the heart of our profit with purpose philosophy. I’m delighted that a world-class fintech company like WorldRemit is choosing LeapFrog as its partner for growth in the emerging markets.”
The second area WorldRemit is hoping to expand is in Asia. Specifically, the company is planning to open a new office in the Philippines with 100 more employees, to help build out its business in that region
This is also notable. To date, WorldRemit to date has mainly grown organically, and that is what it plans to do here. But there is a big opportunity to expand WorldRemit’s footprint by way of acquisition.
There are a number of startups competing with the likes of Western Union and MoneyGram to provide lower-cost and faster remittance services globally, but interestingly, many of them have been building their services with relatively little overlap of the regions that they are targeting first. (Remitly, for example, has been focusing a lot on the business of sending money from the US to India, recently raising $115 million to double down on that opportunity.)
“So far we have seen consolidation in the world of traditional money transfers, where the three largest players are still consolidating some of the smaller players,” Ahmed said. “But as companies like us become more global and taking a regional focus, we may see some M&A too.”
The third area of focus is to keep beefing up its business in the US. Today, the country accounts for 14 percent of WorldRemit’s origination traffic by revenues, and the plan will be to boost this to 40 percent.
The medium is the message
Ahmed said that when it comes to digital money transfers, the company’s mainstay for doing business is its own mobile app, although it and others in the remittance market are still working on ways of expanding this.
Specifically, most transfers are made alongside longer text or voice conversations in messaging apps like WhatsApp, Messenger and WeChat, so there has been a longstanding ambition to integrate services like WorldRemit more seamlessly into those platforms.
But although Facebook has been building peer-to-peer transfer capabilities in a couple of its very biggest markets (the US and UK), one big hurdle for turning them on in developing markets has been local regulation, Ahmed said.
“There are some trials right now for how to use messaging apps to transfer money in the region, but one reason we have not seen more is regulations,” he said. “When we talk about sending money from Africa, it’s about getting a local license in a local office. WorldRemit has done that but there is a lot of complexity there for getting licenses, meeting money laundering regulations and so on.”
I asked, and the reason we haven’t simply seen more API-based implementations, where a company licensed locally provides the transfer within the messaging app, is also because of those requirements.
“At the minimum, most of the regulators require that the company that is licensed is the one that is visible to the customer, so that the customer knows clearly who is safeguarding the funds,” said Ahmed. “Some of the ‘powered by’ models are not acceptable to the more conservative regulators in those markets.”
It’s not just Facebook that faces this problem, he added. “Google, Amazon, Microsoft and Alipay,” area all companies that could grow their businesses in the region were they allowed to work with more companies that could provide money transfer services to mobile phones, which for many individuals and small businesses have become their functioning proxies for bank accounts and credit cards.
Indeed, direct money transfers for basic needs is just one application. We’ve heard that Facebook has been interesting in building this area also so that it can grow its advertising business in the region, since small businesses today have a hard time buying ads because they don’t have cards to pay for them.
“This is part of the problem we are aiming to address longer term,” Ahmed said. “The flows of funds every day that we are sending works out to a lot of hard currencies and billions of dollars in emerging economies,” he said. “It’s easier for us to enable those who want to pay someone else. This is the kind of area where would seamless cross border payments would be very useful, for those who want to provide payments and provide digital services.”

Featured Image: WorldRemit/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE


Bitcoin is flying sky high after crossing the $14,000 mark for the first time, but one projected aimed at helping mine coins is short of at least $60 million after it was hacked.
NiceHash, a marketplace that matches those with spare computing to power to miners wanting to create new coins, has confirmed that it has hit by attackers who snatched bitcoin. The company has paused operations for 24 hours while it figures out exactly how much was swiped and how it was taken. Coindesk reports that users are circulating a wallet from the company that contains 4,736.42 BTC, worth more than $60 million based on today’s price.
The company is recommending that its users change their passwords — both on NiceHash and other services — following the breach.
Recent security issues in the crypto space have centered around Ethereum rather than bitcoin. A vulnerability in Parity’s wallet found in November caused $150 million in ETH to be frozen, while another Parity issue led to 150,000 ETH (then worth around $30 million) being stolen in July.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


It was a big day for online identity management provider, Okta. 
After reporting better-than-expected third-quarter earnings, the company also made a slew of announcements.
Okta, which counts corporate clients like Nordstrom and government clients like the U.S. Department of Justice, said that it’s now going to let startups use its services for free. Young organizations with up to 25 employees will be able to use Okta Identity Cloud without charge for one year.
Okta is “trying to really capture and provide value to the next great companies out there,” CEO Todd McKinnon told TechCrunch. He likely hopes that they’ll become corporate clients as their business grows and they’re satisfied with the secure sign-on services.
Okta also announced that it’s moving its headquarters. The company signed a 10-year lease to move to 100 First Street in San Francisco.
On the earnings front, revenue came in for the quarter at $68.2 million. This surpassed analyst estimates of $62.84 million. Adjusted net losses per share were 19 cents, better than the negative 24 cents Wall Street predicted.
There are a lot of companies in the secure-sign-in space. When asked about startups like Duo or SailPoint, which recently went public, McKinnon said “they have one part of what we offer” and “we have a broad suite.”
He believes Okta’s real competitors are the incumbents like IBM, Oracle and Computer Associates. “We’re replacing that legacy,” McKinnon claims.
The company went public in April and priced its shares at $17. The stock closed Wednesday at $28.46. It went up 5 percent in initial after-hours trading.
!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script"),d=o[0],r=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=r+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var a=e.createElement("script");a.async=1,a.id=s,a.src=i,d.parentNode.insertBefore(a,d)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","//e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");

Featured Image: Okta


Qualcomm teased its new flagship smartphone chip at day one of its Summit in Maui, and, as expected, the company’s got a lot more to offer us on day two. The Snapdragon 845 is the latest premium processor, due out next year. And like its predecessor, the 835, you can expect the thing to be nearly ubiquitous on 2018’s flagship handsets — not to mention a few Windows PCs. 
As anticipated, new chip will sport the same 10 nm manufacturing process as its predecessor, but the company is altering its architecture some in order to bring even more of a focus to imaging. No surprise there, really — the entire industry has been headed in that direction, as smartphone makers work to differentiate themselves with improved photography through multiple cameras, while embracing next-generation AR and VR applications.

New here are the Spectra 280 ISP and Adreno 630 — new architectures designed to improve photography and video capture. That includes the ability to capture significantly more color information with HDR photos and improved playback on Ultra High-Def displays. Also on-board is SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) with simultaneous six-degree of freedom — that can be used for obstacle collision, pointing to Qualcomm’s increased focus on technologies like augmented and virtual reality. 
Artificial intelligence is, naturally, another big focus here. The San Diego chipmaker is promising some pretty big gains on that front — specifically a 3x performance boost. That means improved personal assistant performance and all sorts of other improvements to existing features. The company’s also added support for TensorFlow Lite and the new Open Neural Network Exchange frameworks, in addition to regular old TensorFlow and Caffe, freeing up developer choice on that front.

For security, there’s a devoted secure processing unit on-board, which should bring improvements to biometrics and encryption. Battery life is another key upgrade, with the new Snapdragon promising almost one-third power reduction for energy-hungry features like video capture, AR/VR and gaming. 
The new chip has already started shipping to manufacturers and is due out in devices early next year. That means there’s a pretty good chance we’re going to see quite a few devices announced in roughly a month from now at CES. Huawei has already announced its intentions to use the chip on an unnamed flagship, and if the 835 is any indication, most of the other major Android manufacturers will join them soon enough.


Mr. Robot’s email service of choice just expanded its support for a handful of popular email clients. ProtonMail just introduced a new tool, called ProtonMail Bridge, that could expand its relatively niche appeal to more mainstream users who aren’t yet comfortable with giving up their email client habits.
ProtonMail, built around the encryption standard known as PGP (Pretty Good Privacy), previously required users to use its own apps or webmail service. Now, users loyal to common mail clients Apple Mail, Thunderbird, Outlook or anything else that supports IMAP and SMTP can run ProtonMail Bridge in the background to enable a ProtonMail account to play nice with one of those newly supported clients.
The process maintains the core offerings of ProtonMail: end-to-end encryption, meaning that only a sender and receiver can view an email, and zero-access encryption, meaning that the email provider can’t see your emails even if it wanted to.
“The best part is that this does not require modifying your email client or making changes to your existing workflow,” the company writes in its announcement. “Use email like you have always used it, and the Bridge will automatically encrypt and decrypt messages in the background.”
ProtonMail notes that Bridge users will enjoy some added convenience, including the ability to do full body text searches and to manage multiple accounts. While ProtonMail is a useful if not perfect encrypted email client, the company reminds users, as always, that encrypted email won’t save you if anyone gains access to your device itself.

Featured Image: Stewart Bremner/Moment/Getty Images


Today, Sundance Film Festival announced its lineup for next month. Included yet again were the entrants for the festival’s New Frontiers program, which hosts VR content, and an unlikely film title made the list this year, Wolves in the Walls.
Virtual reality may not be the technology du jour in Silicon Valley as much as it was the past couple of years, but there are still plenty of milestones being traversed in the cinematic VR community, which continues to believe that VR’s dominance in future entertainment is a question of when not if.
Earlier this year, it was announced that Facebook’s Oculus Story Studio would be abruptly shutting down, the 50 employees on its staff would be let go and their main project, Wolves in the Walls, would be shuttered.
This was a major blow to many in the VR community who admired much of the pioneering work that the Emmy-award winning studio had built. The studio’s latest project, Dear Angelica, had been one of the most moving films in the medium that I’d seen, the product of a moving narrative and an artistic style that was only possible in VR.
All of this didn’t stop a core team of employees from Oculus Story Studio from continuing to pursue hopes that the project they’d put so much work into would eventually see the light of day. With support from Oculus, the team has spent the past several months holed up in a studio in San Francisco’s Mission neighborhood getting Wolves in the Walls ready for Sundance.
The film, directed by Pete Billington, is based on a Neil Gaiman story and follows a little girl discovering what’s hiding inside the walls of her room. You can check out a peek of the film’s design here.

Oculus Story Studio has always looked to do more than create beautiful stuff, the work they have done in VR has always seemed to be ahead of the curve and particularly apt at predicting trends that would disperse across VR creation. With Dear Angelica, the team built a pipeline that allowed visuals to be designed entirely inside VR; with Wolves in the Walls, the studio is taking a closer look at how VR film-making can interact with AI tech to bring characters and viewers into more close-knit relationships. They’re working with an immersive theater company to choreograph how they interact with the space, as well.
For​ ​the​ ​first​ ​time​ ​in​ ​a​ ​movie,​ ​the​ ​audience​ ​is​ ​cast​ ​as​ ​a​ ​character,​ ​and​ ​will​ ​be​ ​there​ ​to​ ​help​ ​Lucy​ ​overcome​ ​the obstacles​ ​in​ ​front​ ​of​ ​her. ​This​ ​is​ ​a​ ​VR​ ​fable​ ​about​ ​the​ ​nature​ ​of​ ​fear.​ ​It​ ​is​ ​also​ ​a​ ​story​ ​about​ ​family.​ ​The​ ​youngest members​ ​of​ ​our​ ​pack​ ​often​ ​see​ ​things​ ​the​ ​most​ ​clearly,​ ​but​ ​they​ ​are​  also​ ​the​ ​easiest​ ​to​ ​ignore.​ ​Lucy​ ​needs​ ​our​ ​help​ ​to convince​ ​her​ ​family​ ​that​ ​something​ ​is​ ​very​ ​wrong​ ​inside​ ​the​ ​house.
It’s still unclear what the future looks like for the ragtag group of incredibly talented creators at Oculus Story Studio without Oculus, but the group detailed that they’ll be sharing more soon. Wolves in the Walls premieres at Sundance later next month.


It’s been a bad few months for internet freedom in China (and really, a bad few decades, but who is counting?). The government brought into force a broad-ranging “cybersecurity law” earlier this year that empowers Beijing to take unilateral control over critical internet infrastructure, while also mandating that foreign companies keep all citizen data local inside China — preventing cloud services like Amazon Web Services from moving information between local and foreign data centers, for instance.
That’s not all, though. As Jon noted earlier today, China’s government has also asked Apple to remove hundreds of apps from the China-version App Store this year, including popular social messengers like Skype and VPNs that allow Chinese citizens to access information outside of the Great Firewall.
So it was with great irony that as China has been cutting itself off from the rest of the world’s internet, it hosted the fourth-annual World Internet Conference in Wuzhen this past week. And in an unannounced surprise, Apple and Google chief executives Tim Cook and Sundar Pichai showed up to take part in the “festivities.” Cook even delivered a keynote, and a bow to the audience that was met with a standing ovation.
The theme of the World Internet Conference might have been “Light of Internet,” but the theme of the conference really needed to be: “How far is too far?”
Chinese President Xi Jinping has repeatedly increased government controls over the internet throughout his administration, and with his ascension to “core leader” at this year’s 19th Party Congress, those controls are only expected to continue to tighten. Therefore, it’s not unusual for foreign tech execs these days to be making the pilgrimage to China to try to maintain their access to the market — or to get any access at all. Just a few weeks ago in October, Cook was in China again along with Mark Zuckerberg to attend the annual advisory board to Tsinghua University’s business school, which Cook joined in 2013.
Nearly every tech executive needs to confront the fact that China, whose market is second only to that of the United States, is completely isolating its internet industry from foreign competition. Google, Facebook and other tech giants remain entirely blocked. LinkedIn has faced serious setbacks in recent weeks despite some early success in venturing into the Chinese market with a professional social network and not the kind of messaging that theoretically worries the central government.
Apple seems to be the only top Silicon Valley company that has navigated the shifting tides, although it has remarkable leverage, given that its device manufacturing is heavily based in China and employs quite literally hundreds of thousands of people through its Chinese manufacturing partners.
To be fair to SV tech giants, the complexity of operating in China isn’t any simpler for domestic companies. The Chinese Communist Party has set its sites on companies like Alibaba and Tencent, proposing that large tech companies provide a board seat to the party, and also “donate” shareholder equity to the government.
That leads back to the question then: how far is too far? At Wuzhen this weekend, Alibaba founder Jack Ma was quoted by The Wall Street Journal saying that “When you determine to come, prepare for it. Follow the rules and laws and spend 10 years.” So what happens when the law requires that all source code be handed over to the government? That the government needs a board seat and “special management shares”?
Google may regret its decision back in 2010 to leave China after supposedly state-sponsored hackers attempted to break into several Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists. Pichai, Google’s chief executive, was not given a speaking slot at the Wuzhen conference this weekend, unlike Cook, although he did sit on a panel of tech executives. But ultimately, the decision may have saved the company from the quickly encroaching hand of the Chinese state. For so many other Valley tech companies, the line between internet freedom and tyranny is blurring rapidly. Deciding to forego the world’s second largest market is hardly an easy call, but may ultimately be the best business decision.

Featured Image: Thomas Depenbusch/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


After a Senate vote on Tuesday, Kirstjen Nielsen has been confirmed as John Kelly’s replacement to lead the Department of Homeland Security. The top position at the DHS has remained open since Kelly left to join the White House as chief of staff in late July. Nielsen, a close colleague of Kelly’s, previously served on the Homeland Security Council in the George W. Bush administration and developed domestic policy with the TSA.
As CyberScoop reported last month, Nielsen was intended for a role as the undersecretary of the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD). The NPPD’s stated goal is to “protect and enhance the resilience of the nation’s physical and cyber infrastructure” by specializing in cybersecurity threats the same way that an agency like FEMA specializes in disaster relief and preparedness.
While Nielsen reportedly “waffled,” ultimately not leaving her post as the DHS chief of staff at the time, the role would have effectively made her the head of cyber operations for the agency. Nielsen later followed Kelly to the White House to become his deputy chief of staff.
Given the ever-expanding nature of cyber threats, particularly those against U.S. critical infrastructure, Nielsen’s specialization in cybersecurity could prove timely. We’ll be following Nielsen as she takes on the new role and shapes policy at DHS moving forward.
“I will do my utmost to ensure that the Department meets the threats of today and tomorrow, and to ensure our frontline personnel have the tools and resources to accomplish their vital missions,” Nielsen said of her confirmation.
“I look forward to continuing this Administration’s work to raise the standards for the security of our homeland in all areas – including securing our borders, protecting Americans from terrorist threats, and securing our cyber networks.”

Featured Image: Tom Williams/Getty Images


You can now find Leesa mattresses, one of the many mattress-in-a-box startups, at Pottery Barn online.
Pottery Barn parent company Williams-Sonoma announced the partnership today, saying in a press release, “Starting today, Pottery Barn customers can purchase Leesa’s American-made and expertly designed mattresses online at PotteryBarn.com/Leesa, marking Leesa’s growing partnership with Williams-Sonoma, Inc.”
The news comes on the heels of a partnership between Leesa and the Williams-Sonoma-owned West Elm, which unseated a previous partnership the furnishings store had with Casper, starting in September of this year.
Leesa and Pottery Barn will also be giving back to the community under the new partnership — one mattress will be donated to San Francisco’s Episcopal Community Services’ housing program for every 10 sold through Pottery Barn through December. For its part, Pottery Barn will donate its branded sheet sets to go along with the mattresses.


Lyft is beginning its self-driving car pilot with self-driving car company nuTonomy in Boston as it looks to ramp up its self-driving efforts, and is now matching its riders with self-driving vehicles in parts of Boston, nuTonomy said today.
Lyft announced its partnership with nuTonomy in June this year, indicating that the pilots would begin in the coming months. It looks like the project is going to get out the door by the end of the year, which is a good sign for the company looking to capitalize on not only a pile of goodwill in the ridesharing industry but also getting the tech up and rolling. While it’s limited to a select part of Boston, getting those tests up and running is critical to get enough data to broaden the program.
If you live in a metro area like San Francisco, you’ve probably become accustomed to seeing cars with whirling cameras on top of them rolling through the city. All this is an effort to collect additional data on the city and how traffic behaves in it — information that’s critical to create a self-driving car network that is both effective and safe. Perception is nearly as important as reality as companies like Uber and Lyft look to make self-driving cars part of the norm.

The company said some Boston passengers in the Seaport area will be matched with self-driving vehicles when they request rides through Lyft. It will give some select consumers access to the sort of future-is-here experience of getting in a self-driving car for two companies that seem to be relatively unknown in a market populated by Waymo and Uber, which are both looking to create a massive network of self-driving cars.
And to be sure, there’s an enormous amount of money that continues to flow into both autonomous driving and ridesharing. Delphi purchased nuTonomy for $400 million in October this year, and Lyft appears to continue to tack on additional financing with another $500 million this month. For Lyft, it’s an opportunity to tap a company that is looking to specialize in the technology, and it gives companies like nuTonomy access to an existing network immediately.




Sonos and Ikea just announced a new collaboration to “create future home sound experiences”.
The companies say they want to make it easier to play music anywhere in the home – which makes sense, since Sonos’ main benefit is how easy their software makes it to set up and manage a system of speakers throughout your home.
“Together with Sonos we want to democratize music and sound in the home, and we want to create products designed for how people listen together at home. By teaming up with Sonos we want to combine IKEA home furnishing knowledge with Sonos’ expertise within great home sound.” explained Björn Block, Business Leader, IKEA Home Smart at IKEA of Sweden.
In typical corporate fashion there’s no concrete details about what specific types of products the two will collaborate on. And since the products won’t launch until 2019, it may be a while before we know what exactly will result from the collaboration. But if the duo can figure out how to build good-quality speakers into Ikea furniture that can be controlled by Sonos’ software, count me in.
The collaboration is a little unexpected, since Sonos is considered a premium brand and Ikea is budget home furnishing Plus Sonos is very limited in their product line – they sell exactly 9 products, meaning even a small collaboration with Ikea could potentially double the amount of products they make.
Ikea sees this endeavor as the third step for their Home Smart division. They launched wireless charging in some of their furniture in 2015, smart lighting products in 2016 and now have decided to tackle music.


The Duke of York will be at St. James’s Palace today for #pitchatpalace Global.
Pitch@Palace Global brings together entrepreneurs from 2017 Pitch@Palace events that took place in Africa, China, Singapore, Australia, United Arab Emirates and Mexico.
Watch the live stream above starting at 5:30 p.m. GMT/9 a.m. PT.


The spreadsheet gurus in your organization know how to use pivot tables to pull meaningful insight out of a morass of numbers. It has been what separated those folks from the rest of us, but Google is out to democratize the pivot table in the latest version of Google Sheets announced today.
Google is achieving this by adding some artificial intelligence under the hood. The new features build on the Explore feature the company added last year. The idea here is to begin bringing automation to bear on the data pile to help surface meaningful insights.
Today’s feature add machine learning to the pivot tables to achieve a couple of major breakthroughs. For starters, instead of manually creating a pivot table to bring order to your data set, Google Sheets can suggest a pivot table based on the data you have in Google Sheets for you automatically. No more begging at the guru’s door for the spreadsheet mortals among us. This puts them within reach of just about anyone.
Gif: Google
There’s also a natural language querying interface in the Explore pane, so you can ask questions in plain English (or your language of choice eventually; it currently only supports English) and the applications can find the data in the pivot table for you. You no longer have to go hunting for the data. You  can ask a questions, and get an answer (assuming it’s there to be found, of course).
For those you who are old school and want to create your pivot tables from scratch, Google has some love for you too. It uses the same intelligence it provides for mere mortals to create pivot tables to make suggestions to help you too.
It’s not all about intelligence though, you know. You want your pivot table interface to look good too and Google has updated the Pivot Table UI including customizable headings, rows and columns.
Google isn’t limiting the intelligence to pivot tables either. It’s trying to add it across the entire spreadsheet experience, so you if you are entering data, it could pop up suggestions about what formula you might want to use for a given kind of information. If this works well, it could be quite helpful, but if it doesn’t, it could get annoying.
All of this and more will be rolling out over the coming months, according to Google.

Featured Image: Jon Russell/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)


Brave, the blockchain-based browser initiative that raised $35 million in an ICO earlier this year, is making its first major move to build an ecosystem that rewards publishers in a new kind of way.
One of the selling points of Brave is that it uses its token (BAT, Basic Attention Token) to disrupt the current financial norms of online publishing. The company wants to reward users for browsing the web, while also helping to make advertising less intrusive and more relevant. In another important focus, it wants to use BAT to let readers reward content makers whose websites they visit.
That’s where its new push this week is focused on. Brave is giving its users a total of 300,000 BAT tokens — worth around $60,000 — over the next 30 days. Users typically earn tokens by using Brave, but this promotion will put additional credit in there, which can then be given directly to publishers or YouTube channel operators.
That’s a fairly major move given that Brave claims to have one million monthly users and, on the publisher side, over 1,100 websites and 600 YouTube channels as content partners. YouTube was added to the platform last month.

A notification offering the token push
Users will get a maximum of $5 in BAT over the next 30 days — or until the token allocated is reached — which will be added to their Brave payment wallet. That wallet can be used to ‘tip’ websites that they visit based on time spent on the site.
The default, for example, allocates the total tip jar based on the percentage of time that a Brave user has spent on Brave-verified websites and YouTube channels. It can be overridden, however, to allow a user to tip whatever they like to whichever website they like.

Brave Payments’ default distributes a users’ wallet based on time spent on Brave-verified websites
In effect, Brave is boosting the wallets of its users with this offer giving them greater potential to tip their favorite content creators, who can convert the BAT into fiat currency.
“It is one of many steps toward dealing users back in for a fair deal, and dealing out the toxic middle players,” Brave CEO Brendan Eich, who was formerly in charge of Mozilla, told TechCrunch in a statement.
“We are moving from good-will contributions to user grants to private ads that share the bulk of the gross ad revenue with the user, without any targeting or tracking by remote parties (including Brave),” he added.
Unlike many other ICO projects, Brave has a product in the market in the form of its browser. The full scope of the project will take some time to roll out, however, with payment options and YouTube added over the last two months, for example. But it is certainly at a more advanced stage than the majority of projects that have raised funding via a token sale.
Prior to its ICO, Brave had raised $6 million in traditional venture capital funding.


As part of its move away from consumer gear toward professional cinema hardware, Lytro has killed off the site that once hosted its “living pictures,” still photos taken with its cameras that could be refocused after the fact. This will turn a handful of those pictures, where they had been embedded on the web over the past few years, into empty frames. If you want to see light field images now, you’ll need to see them in the desktop app.
In 2012, when I reviewed the original Lytro camera, I wrote:
“The Lytro software is limited to browsing your photos and grouping them into ‘stories,’ and you can upload them directly to (and only to) Lytro, which will serve them for… eternity, you hope. Not much of a choice there.”
As I half expected would be the case at the time, eternity turned out to be on the short side — until it became inconvenient for the company to host it. Of course, it’s unlikely there were many active users of the service now; Lytro left the consumer camera market two years ago when there proved to be little demand for its technically amazing but ultimately gimmicky cameras.
Non-living picture
One never should trust services that offer so little flexibility in how you access and serve your own data, but Lytro’s tech was unique in that it essentially required a special plug-in to view properly. These plug-ins you would embed wherever you wanted to share a “living picture,” a rather clumsy solution that contributed to the usability problems endemic to the whole Lytro proposition.
The living picture format is done forever unless the company releases some way to self-host them, but it seems unlikely. Any remaining users will have to export to ordinary stills or movie files in the desktop app.
I’m happy to see Lytro evolving and applying its very cool tech to a new market, but the bumpy road it has traveled is littered with lessons for young hardware startups.


If there’s any sort of trend in robotics this year it’s soft hands. Robots with soft pincers are quite useful in picking up – and not breaking – objects and now you can enjoy a soft-handed robot at home.
The robot is called Gomer and it’s available now on Indiegogo. The little robot had an expressive face and a big claw on top. You can play games with Gomer – my kids liked keep-away in which the robot steals a box and then tries to run away from you – or you can train him to pick up objects or explore his surroundings.
I had an early version of Gomer and our techie family found him very cute. At $229 for early birds you’re not paying much for a smart wheeled robot and he has a nice little SDK for programming. They’ve also designed him to be able to play with your pets, as evidenced by the short video of Gomer tormenting a grey cat.
Dr. Jonathan Liu created Gomer as part of his research into soft robotics. His co-founder, Eric Zhao, worked in robotics and embedded systems.
“For the first time, soft robotics is not exclusive to factories and other industry specific products, but are made consumer friendly and for the masses,”said Liu. “Gomer is easy to use for anyone, but also has an open API for developers who want to customize Gomer. In addition, Gomer’s AI recognizes facial expressions and can express its own based on what he sees.”

“When the Gomer team finished graduate school, we had a clear idea of what we wanted to do with our research results: a robot that combined the helpfulness and attitude of Dobby with the playfulness of Baymax. We invented Gomer to bring this dream into reality, and to bring to the world a new being with the liveliness and distinctiveness of our favorite animated characters,” he said.


HQ Trivia — the twice-a-day live streamed trivia game built by the founders of Vine — continues to be a big thing. Recent games have had upwards of 200,000 players per session, each hoping to go home with the cash prize (or, at least, a share of it) for answering every question right.
And yet… it’s iOS only. Type “HQ Trivia” into Google, and “HQ Trivia android” is the very first auto-suggest… so, clearly, plenty of people are itching for it to go cross-platform.
Well, it’s coming.
HQ Trivia tweeted out the following — it doesn’t get too specific about the launch date, but the “stocking stuffer” bit suggests they’re aiming for this month:


Hey world, we hear you also have Android phones? HQ has a nice little stocking stuffer coming your way… pic.twitter.com/RwY6Qpkk9e
— HQ Trivia (@hqtrivia) December 5, 2017



Adding Android to the mix introduces a few new challenges beyond just the porting process itself. As the player count has ticked upward, the last few games have had pretty obvious moments of lag/buffering — a pretty stressful thing to see when you’re up against the clock. Meanwhile, more players means more potential winners to split the pot (each game has a prize of at least $1000, but that’s split amongst all winners). No one wants to make it all the way to the end only to split a $1,000 pot 10,000 ways.


Firefox’s default search engine has become the subject of a hotly contested legal battle, a few weeks after Mozilla announced it would be moving from Yahoo to Google. Yahoo’s new parent Oath filed a complaint against Mozilla in a California court on December 1, alleging a breach of contract. Now Mozilla has filed a counter complaint, stating that the switch back was in line with a deal struck between the two companies.  
Sounds like a small thing, sure, but we’re talking hundreds of millions of dollars here. Back in 2014, Yahoo struck a deal that would make its search engine the default for Mozilla’s popular, if struggling, browser, to the tune of $375 million a year. 
Details of the deal were only made public last year, as CEO Marissa Mayer’s time at the company came under the microscope while it prepared to sell itself to Verizon. For its many faults, the Verizon deal went through, of course, forming Oath in the process (the Yahoo/AOL hybrid under which TechCrunch resides). Along with it, Verizon inherited an annual payment of $375 million through 2019. 
Not a bad deal for Mozilla, especially when one considers this little gem: Yahoo (or whoever owns Yahoo) is obligated to continue payments, even if Mozilla were to, say, drop the search engine as its default. Mozilla was given a contractual right to terminate the agreement, if Yahoo was found unacceptable for some reason. 
That precise thing occurred just a few weeks back, as the company launched its new Quantum browser, switching back to Google in the process. The latest version of Firefox has been warmly regarded by many as a return to form for a company that had previously been lost in the woods, rapidly losing marketshare to Chrome in the process. Naturally, Oath/Yahoo want a piece of that action.
In yesterday’s counter-complaint, Mozilla explains that it took another long look at the deal post-Verizon acquisition and was no longer in love with its choice of Yahoo as the default engine. 
“Immediately following Yahoo’s acquisition, we undertook a lengthy, multi-month process to seek assurances from Yahoo and its acquirers with respect to those factors,” the company explained in a blog post yesterday. “When it became clear that continuing to use Yahoo as our default search provider would have a negative impact on all of the above, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the agreement and entered into an agreement with another provider.”
Oath has not yet issued an official response to Mozilla’s official response. 

Featured Image: Benjamin Kerensa/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


ClassPass is today introducing a new layer to its business with ClassPass Live.
Taking a hint from Peloton, ClassPass is now letting users work out at home through live-streamed classes. The company has purchased a studio in Industry City, along with a production team, so that folks can enjoy all the benefits of heart-rate training without ever leaving their house.
ClassPass has also hired their own instructors to develop classes that are proprietary to ClassPass, rather than licensing out existing workouts and simply streaming them live.
ClassPass CEO Fritz Lanman had this to say in the release:
At ClassPass we’re flexing our technical capabilities to push the future of fitness, especially as it relates to interactive, immersive experiences – nowhere is that more evident than with ClassPass Live. We’ve leveraged our unparalleled data assets and reviews to create one-of-a-kind, live programming anchored in heart rate training that’s unlike anything else on the market. By expanding into an at-home digital product, we’re able to offer existing members more value and flexibility in how and when they work out while simultaneously bringing studio fitness inspired workouts to more people nationwide.
Lanman hinted at this type of move in an interview at Disrupt SF in September.
By vertically integrating workouts, ClassPass can side-step the cost of existing classes and boutiques with their own product. At the same time, ClassPass can expand to markets almost instantly without having to do the footwork on the ground to secure gyms and fitness studios.
Of course, ClassPass Live doesn’t change anything about the core ClassPass offering, and in fact, it will only cost $10/month for existing ClassPass users. The standalone ClassPass live subscription costs $15/month.
ClassPass Live will be available in the beginning of 2018.

Featured Image: ClassPass


Inflect, a startup that wants to make it easier for businesses to buy their own internet infrastructure, today announced that it has raised a $3 million seed funding round. The service, which is still in preview, provides business with the necessary data to make their purchasing decisions when they go out and look for their own data center space, networking services and exchange providers.
Investors in this round include the likes of Greenpoint Technologies’ Jon Buccola Sr, Weebly CTO Chris Fanini, Server Central CEO Jordan Lowe, Global Communications Network CEO Chris Palermo and — somewhat surprisingly — Cruise Automation CTO Kyle Vogt (who was also Twitch’s former CEO).
“We’re fortunate to have investors who understand both the buy and sell sides of our industry,” said Inflect co-founder and CEO Mike Nguyen in a canned statement. “They understand how challenging it is to buy colocation, managed and network services. As industry insiders, they’ve all wasted time and money due to lack of access to accurate data and the right service provider contacts needed to source the right solutions.”
Inflect itself remains in preview, but the company says that it now includes verified data from over 40 service providers and 4,000 data centers around the world. The company itself estimates that this covers about 80 percent of the globally available public infrastructure.
It’s worth noting that this kind of data is typically very hard to get — and most companies never had an incentive to offer an API to allow others to aggregate their data (Cruise Automation’s Kyle Vogt describes the industry as “infuriatingly opaque“). Data and telco services have traditionally been bought manually, but Inflect, which was founded by a team of infrastructure veterans, aims to change this. For now, it’s mostly aggregating this data, but over time, it will surely try to allow its users to buy services right from its catalog, too.

Featured Image: Dean Mouhtaropoulos/Getty Images


CrossCut Ventures, a Los Angeles-based seed investment firm has just closed its fourth (and largest) fund with $125 million in new cash.
It’s been a long road for the firm’s three co-founders, who have been investing in Los Angeles since 1997. In that time they’ve seen the city’s technology scene evolve in fits and starts, but now, with companies like Snap, Dollar Shave Club and Oculus bringing billions of dollars down from Silicon Valley, a wave of investor interest has followed — and with their new fund they stand to reap the benefits.
“We’ve been looking for that since 2008,” which is when the firm launched its first institutional investment vehicle, says Brian Garrett, a co-founder and managing director at CrossCut. “we are now in a place where those tentpole companies, like Snap, and Oculus, and Dollar Shave Club… we can build those companies here.”
Indeed, the seed stage investor has already had success with its previous investment vehicles, which have put $50 million in capital to work behind 70 companies that have raised $1.3 billion in follow-on funding. And 66% of those investments were made in companies based in Los Angeles.
“Los Angeles is capturing the attention of institutional LPs, which is leading to the virtuous cycle of innovation. Tech  companies have hired thousands of people and brought a ton of talent down here and those people will go off and start their own businesses,” Garrett says.
Indeed, CrossCut had set out to raise only $100 million, but there was so much interest from limited partners — the funds that back venture firms — that the venture firm hit its hard cap for fundraising at $125 million.
The firm has certainly come a long way from the $5 million it raised for its first vehicle in the dog days of 2008 as the global financial crisis was taking its toll on economies around the world.
The entire CrossCut Ventures team: (from right) associate Sarah Moret; Clinton Foy, managing director; Brett Brewer, co-founder and managing director; Brian Garrett, co-founder and managing director; Rick Smith, co-founder and managing director; Michael Tam, associate
 
From that small, first fund, things grew slowly and steadily for the partners at CrossCut, Garrett said. The firm’s second fund, raised in mid-2012, was a modest $16 million, and it raised a significantly larger fund in 2014 as the Los Angeles market as it exists now was beginning to take shape.
The increasing investment pools in some senses mirror the pace of acceleration of the Los Angeles ecosystem, but in those early days, the CrossCut founder said things were not necessarily that rosy.
“Here’s the story,” says Garrett. “[CrossCut co-founder] Rick Smith and I left cushy venture jobs to start Crosscut… I had no savings and bought a new house in the Pallisades with a big mortgage.” Then the bottom fell out of the economy.
“There wasn’t a fee stream coming off the fund,” Garrett said. “I was consulting with anyone who would help me around strategy and business development… and got pulled in with a public company turnaround… a lot of what we were trying to do was replicate venture models in Brazil.”
The company was called Que Pasa and Garrett helped it raise an $11 million PIPE. That deal, ultimately led to an acquisition.
Meanwhile, another CrossCut co-founder, Brett Brewer had gone to a company in Kansas City called AdKnowledge. While still working with CrossCut, Brewer helped AdKnowledge raise $40 million from TCV and scaled the business to $300 million in revenue, Garrett told me.
“We were the largest seed fund in LA at the time at $5 million we were running this thing out of coffee beans on nights and weekends,” Garrett said.
In fact, the firm’s latest addition as partner, Clinton Foy, actually began at CrossCut as an unpaid venture partner back in 2014. “We brought him in as a partner ahead of fund three not even sure we were going to raise fund three. Foy has brought eSports, gaming, and mobile streaming experience to the partnership — and has already scored a pretty big win as the co-founder of the Immortals e-sports team.

The first fund has now returned 4 times its money from 18 investments — 11 of which netted positive returns. And the firm’s second fund is one-third returned with a paper valuation at nearly 5 times its money, given the fair market value write ups of the deals in the portfolio, Garrett said.
There are currently 32 companies in the portfolio and 12 of those investments were made in the last year.
Typical check size for the new CrossCut fund will be potentially as much as half of a $2.5 million to $3.5 million dollar round, but the firm doesn’t want to stray too far from traditional early stage seed investing, according to Garrett. However, at nearly two times larger than any other seed fund in town, the firm has a bit more dry powder.
As with previous vehicles, the fund will primarily look to invest in Los Angeles and Southern California, but it will look elsewhere too — as long as the potential investment has some need to tap the Los Angeles market, the firm is interested in taking a look.
Los Angeles, could, however, occupy a more central place in the investment thesis given the activity from startups that exists here.
Indeed, the appearance of new investment firms coming in at later rounds have made the city’s venture scene more robust, and brought a new attention to the companies coming out of LA.
Investors like Mark Suster at Upfront Ventures have been beating the drum for Los Angeles as an epicenter for technology investment for a number of years. Through the Upfront Summit, which his firm launched a few years ago, Los Angeles investors and entrepreneurs have had a marquee showcase  to pitch all of the things that Los Angeles can offer to a tech company — and the opportunity that exists for investors, Garrett said.
But Upfront, which has been in Los Angeles since 1996, and other investment firms like Greycroft Partners, which established themselves in Los Angeles more recently (and, in the case of Greycroft, have offices in other geographies from which to commit capital) have managed to provide the later stage capital that was the oxygen the local ecosystem needed.
For Garrett, the presence of a broader investment base is great for a firm like his, which need later stage investors to fund their portfolio companies past a Series A round (which is the time that CrossCut will tap out to let other investors lead). 
“What happened is that the ecosystem believed that there were next generation businesses to be built,” said Garrett. “For us it was Ophir [Tanz] at GumGum and Jason [Nazar] at DocStoc and David Lee.”
That was around 2008 to 2011, right before Upfront Ventures began to really publicize Los Angeles as the hot new place to go for tech startups, according to Garrett. “I will fully then say that Mark Suster created a lot of awareness and a megaphone and a spotlight that got shone and we have been a great beneficiary of his outward efforts,” he said.
These days, the firm’s investment interests are as diverse as the Los Angeles ecosystem it supports running the gamut from artificial intelligence, to blockchain technologies, to gaming and eSports. The firm has also backed companies in automation, “big data”, digital marketplaces, and software as a service.
“I was CrossCut’s very first investment as they formed the fund back in 2008.  It’s been amazing to watch their success and growth.  They have quietly and humbly built one of the best reputations in VC by working tirelessly on behalf of their portfolio companies.” says Jason Nazar, founder of DocStoc (sold to Intuit) and now a co-founder of Comparably.  “They deserve a lot of credit for catalyzing this ecosystem and were the first to recognize the opportunity and build a fund and brand around it.”
At this point, for CrossCut and Los Angeles, the important thing is the solid foundation on which new startups are being built. “It’s a perfect storm of a lot of factors,” said Garrett, but the Los Angeles tech scene now has grown and “contributes to this idea that tis will not be a hyped and busted ecosystem.”
 
Companies like Tesla and SpaceX have reinvigorated Los Angeles manufacturing, aerospace, and automotive industries, while young data scientists from the University of Southern California are doing amazing work around big data, Garrett said.
“It’s a ten year story arc, right now there’s no branded money down here that is being built to catalyze innovation that has the ability to build a viable standalone investment firm in Southern California.” That’s an opportunity for a firm like CrossCut, with its new capitalization, to stake a pretty large claim for itself in a tech ecosystem that is still developing.
 
 


A bunch of new Pokémon are coming to Pokèmon Go this week – but that’s not the only big change on the way.
Pokémon Go will soon be aware of the real world weather around you, with a number of things in the game adapting accordingly.
I spoke to Niantic’s Archit Bhargava and Matt Slemon about the new system, which they refer to as “dynamic weather”.
Here’s some of what they shared:


 Most notably, weather will affect spawns . If it’s raining outside, for example, you’ll probably see more water Pokémon. If it’s snowing, you might see Snorunts running around.
Itll impact spawns of Pokémon from the previous generations too – not just the new Gen III stuff.
Pokémon brought out by weather  will start out stronger – that is, they’ll start with higher CP than standard spawns. (Their max CP will be the same, though – it’s just a little headstart)
The map will change to reflect the current weather; it won’t be blue skies and green fields all the time, anymore.
Pokémon brought out by weather will also give you a bit  more stardust than usual

 Weather will affect gym combat . When it’s raining, water Pokémon will get a stat boost while fire Pokémon are weakened. If there’s snow, ice Pokémon are buffed. That holds true for both attacking and defending Pokémon – so if you’re trying to hold down a gym and know it’s about to rain all night, for example, you might lean toward using a water ‘Mon.

As far as I can tell, there are at least five different types of weather in the mix:


Clear: Grass, ground, and fire Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

Foggy: Dark and ghost Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

Rainy: Water, electric, and bug Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

Snowy: Ice and steel Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

Windy: Dragon, flying, and psychic Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

The timing of the new weather system isn’t random: the incoming Gen III Pokémon first showed up in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire… which, as it just so happens, were also the first games in the series to feature changing weather in the in-game overworld.
And for all of us in the Bay Area finding themselves thinking about the closest snow being a few hundred miles away: it shouldn’t be an issue. Slemon tells me that Pokémon will spawn outside of their preferred weather, they’ll just be much less common.
As a funny side note: when Pokémon Go first launched, there was all sorts of folklore about what caused certain things to spawn. Driven by anecdotal evidence, folks were convinced that more ghost Pokémon spawned near graveyards (nope), or that Snorlax liked being around sweet shops (nope). There were all sorts of theories around weather – some players swore that more Dratini spawned when it was raining. Now that might actually hold true.
Beyond being a neat mechanic for an AR game, it’s a clever way for Niantic to chip away at a problem: the colder it gets, generally, the fewer people go outside and play. Now that PoGo is weather-aware, they’re able to flip the problem on its head and incentivize playing when the weather looks bleak.


PerceptIn’s been operating mostly behind the scenes since launching in March of last year. Even so, the company has managed to raise a decent chunk of change in its mission of helping improve robotic vision. The startup’s raised a total of $11 million in all, including a seed round of ~$2 million last year and an $8 million Series A in 2017.
Samsung Ventures took interest in the company’s hardware/software solution for its own products as well, but failed to make it in time for the Series A-1, adding an additional $1 million in funding. It’s no guarantee at this early stage, but it could well mean that PerceptIn’s tech could one day make it into some piece of Samsung-designed robotic.
After all, the hardware giant does make its own robotic vacuums under the Powerbot line — and that happens to be one of the primary applications for PerceptIn’s new Ironsides vision system, which brings something akin to a plug-and-play combination hardware and software package for robotics. With vacuums being far and away the leader in consumer robotics, it’s a logical first step for the company.
“Our estimate had sales at around 10 million worldwide shipped,” PerceptIn CEO Zhe Zhang told TechCrunch, explaining why it’s going after vacuums. “It can use depth information to avoid very challenging obstacles like dog poop, cables and shoes. They’re very difficult for today’s robots to see and smartly navigate their way around.”
Zhang won’t disclose the company’s largest robotics client, but explains that it is working to integrate its vision system into a hardware client’s consumer robot set to ship some time next year. Beyond that, he adds, it’s been working with more than 100 university-based companies, along with another large consumer hardware maker. 
“Huawei is one of our first companies,” he explains. “We’ve been working with them for almost two years. At this point we don’t have an announcement, but we’ll have something official next year.”
The Ironsides system runs $399 for developers and could ultimately cut down significantly on R&D for home robotics companies that have yet to crack the code of computer vision. The company is also hoping to scale the system up for enterprise robotics and self-driving cars in the future.


Good news, Pokèmon Go fans: Gen III Pokemon are landing this week
Or, I should say, more Gen III Pokémon are landing this week. Niantic tells me that at least 50 new Pokèmon will be added to the game before the week is over, adding to the handful of Gen III monsters that showed up just before Halloween.
“But wait, Greg!” you might say, shaking your Pokédex at the sky. “Gen III is supposed to add something like 130 new Pokèmon! Where are the rest?!”
Niantic isn’t dropping everything at once this time around – they’ll be rolling them out over time, instead. I’m told they’re currently planning on having future Gen III Pokèmon released in themed groups – more Gen III Fire Pokèmon one week, Gen III grass Pokèmon another, etc.
The choice to stagger the release schedule within a generation like this will probably bum out anyone itching to catch’em all ASAP – but it makes some sense. Niantic only has so many generations to work with within the existing Pokèmon universe – and once players catch most of what a generation has to offer, they start clamoring for more. By splitting things up, they’re able to keep interest levels a bit more consistent over time.
Gen III is otherwise known as the “Hoenn” generation, and is comprised of Pokèmon that first appeared in Pokèmon Ruby and Sapphire back in 2002.
Niantic’s Archit Bhargava also confirmed to me that they’ll be hosting an in-game holiday event this month. He didn’t say much about what to expect, but did note that they’re aiming to start it up sometime around December 21st.
Meanwhile, the company also announced that weather – as in the real world weather outside – will impact the game. More details on that here.


Tim Cook said six months ago Amazon Prime Video was coming to Apple TV sometime before the end of the year. And here it is: the long-awaited app is finally available on Apple TV and the iOS flavor was updated to support the iPhone X.
The native tvOS versions is compatible with Apple TV 3rd generation devices or later. If the app isn’t visible yet, try searching for Amazon Prime Video on the Apple TV and it should pop-up.
The release of the Apple TV app could signal Apple TV’s return to Amazon, as well. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos said previously that the retailer would not sell the streaming device until it was compatible with Prime services.
“We want our player, our Prime Video player, to be on the device, and we want it to be on the device with acceptable business terms,” said Bezos at Code Conference 2016. “And if you can’t, then we don’t want to sell it to our customers, because they’re going to be buying it thinking they can watch Prime Video and then they’re going to be disappointed. And they’re going to return it.”
The Amazon Prime Video app was the lone missing streaming service from the Apple TV, where Netflix, Hulu and the rest had previously been available.
Now if only Apple could fix the terrible Apple TV remote.

Featured Image: smlp.co.uk/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)


Amazon is increasing its focus on Southeast Asia after the e-commerce giant launched its Prime service in Singapore.
The U.S. firm landed in Singapore, its first market in Southeast Asia, in July initially offering Prime Now, its e-commerce service with an aggressive two-hour delivery window. From this week, however, it is offering its full Prime bundle which includes free international shipping on orders over SG$40 and subscriptions to its Prime Video service and Prime Twitch offering.
This launch will put pressure on Lazada, the e-commerce site owned by Alibaba, which is Amazon’s primary competitor in Southeast Asia.
Lazada teamed up with Uber and Netflix to offer a membership package of its own — called LiveUp — in a move that seemed to pre-empt the full launch of Prime. LiveUp is currently limited to Singapore, but Lazada has pledged to expand to other markets including Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy. That makes sense since Amazon is said to be eying regional expansions and Indonesia is sure to be high on its list.
Elsewhere in the wider Asia Pacific region, Amazon entered Australia this month. These expansions add to its foray into the Middle East via the acquisition of Souq.com. Amazon Prime is also available in India and Japan.

Featured Image: Lisa Werner/Moment Mobile/Getty Images


Raspberry Pis are usually very lonely. These tiny, single-board computers sit quietly under desks or inside 3D printed cases, staring wistfully into the far distance while waiting for a little attention. Now, thanks to a side project by a programmer named Dimitri Raftopoulos, an app called PiTunnel ensures your Pi need not be alone anymore.
The project exposes your Pi to the outside world securely. With a few commands on your local Pi, you can access your little computer via a terminal or the web. A unique feature includes the ability to bring up a command prompt through your browser. It’s similar to other projects like Dataplicity but Raftopoulos has added a few of his own tweaks.
“When I first discovered Raspberry Pi while doing a personal project, I was quite surprised at how little was available for easy remote access to projects you build, so I made PiTunnel,” said Raftopoulos. He has done a great deal of software engineering for commercial embedded computers.
The project is self-funded.
“Other services are really focused on Remote Terminals. Although PiTunnel has that feature, it’s more about Tunneling, which means you can access any network service that’s running on our Raspberry Pi from anywhere in the world, whether it’s http or some other custom protocol, without bothering to setup complex network routing or static IPs,” said Raftopoulos. “You can run any service you want over it, and make it accessible to everyone in the world or secure it just for your own access.”
Thanks to PiTunnel your lonely little computer can act as a remote monitoring station, a security system, and even a remote web server. It’s a cool way to make your sad little Pi happy again.


Viola, the Israel-based technology investment group, is launching new independent VC fund targeting fintech startups from anywhere in the world. Dubbed Viola FinTech, the “cross-stage venture fund” has an initial closing of $100 million but will extend that towards $120-150 million. It is backed by global banks, insurance companies and asset managers from North America, Europe, APAC and Israel, including Scotiabank, The Travelers Companies, Inc and Bank Hapoalim.
Describing its mission as “to bridge the gap between the worlds of financial institutions and innovative startups,” Viola FinTech says its fund will work closely with its investors to accelerate what it calls “Fintegration” (no really), defined as the implementation and adaption of innovative solutions by financial institutions, and to guide startups in the regulatory and corporate environment.
To that end, the new VC’s team are said to have backgrounds in banking, entrepreneurship and investment: Prof. Daniel Tsiddon, Founder and General Partner, was the former Deputy CEO of Bank Leumi (Israel’s second largest bank) and former Chairman of Leumi Partners, the Bank’s investment arm; Tomer Michaeli, General Partner, co-founded FundBox (a leader in small business credit and payment solutions with tens of millions in revenues); and Avi Zeevi, who has been in the FinTech industry for 35 years and is Co-Founder of Viola Grop and Chairman of the FinTech fund Investment Committee.
A short email Q&A with Tsiddon follows:
What stage and size of investments are you targeting?
We are a cross stage fund which will usually invest in “A+” stage (mostly A and B, when there’s already another VC that invested in the company). Our initial check size is generally between $3M-$7M.
Which areas of fintech do you see opportunities still (it sort of feels like a lot of fintech is done in this current generation)?
We target areas that are ripe for disruption through technology where inefficiencies arise from regulation, middlemen and manual processes. Some of the areas are:

Launching of digital services by financial institutions (back office and middleware “virtualization”)
Wealth and asset management – bringing quant and data to the wealth management side (“HFing” the asset managers (HF- Hedge Fund))
Customer engagement using multitude of channels and augmented by AI
Financial services for SMBs (insurance, FX, lending, investing etc)
Creating liquidity in illiquid assets (commercial real estate etc)
Insurance – especially data platforms and underwriting using alternative data sources
Regtech: applying AI to automate regulatory and compliance processes in financial organizations

Geographically, where do you see the most opportunities in fintech?
As a global fund, we see opportunities everywhere. We will focus on Israel, the EU, and the Americas.
Who is doing best in fintech right now? ie which sectors of fintech and which hubs, such as London
Fintech has multiple hubs worldwide, so it’s difficult to say who is the “best,” but the main global hubs are New York and the Bay Area, along with London and Tel Aviv on the European side. There are some great companies in Paris and an even more under the radar ecosystem doing exciting things is Belgium.
We believe Israel’s status as a fintech powerhouse comes from the right mix of entrepreneurial culture, funding ecosystem, and legacy of Fintech success and that is also what led the global and significant institutional investors to choose to back us in this fund.


Health2Sync, a Taiwan-headquartered company that offers a diabetes tracking service, has closed a $6 million Series B round aimed at expanding its business in Japan and other markets in Asia.
Health2Sync launched at the TechCrunch Hardware Battlefield at CES 2014 and it essentially offers a smarter way to track and manage diabetes. Using a BlueTooth dongle, Android and iOS devices can be connected to a glucose meter which then populates data inside the Health2Sync app. The company formerly offered a headphone jack cable but smartphone trends forced a change.
“The problems we are trying to solve are the lack of data around diabetes tracking, and the shortage of diabetes practitioners in this part of the world,” CEO and co-founder Ed Deng told TechCrunch in an interview.
“The service kicks in when data is the smartphone. It can run analytics and give feedback, while patients can log data like food and medicine intake and exercise,” Deng added, explaining that integrations with blood pressure meters is planned for the future.
The results are impressive. The four-year-old company claims that the average blood glucose of high-risk users decreased by 22 percent after they used its service for three months. That, in turn, can help lower complications and reduce health issues.

A diabetes patient with Health2Sync staff at a community event in Taiwan
Health2Sync previously raised a $3 million Series A round in August 2016 and now this $6 million Series B will go towards expansions. While the app can be used anywhere, Deng said the value is strongest in markets where it has local partners — including pharmaceutical companies, insurance firms and its own community — and right now that is Taiwan and Hong Kong.
Japan is the world’s second largest market for spending on diabetes care, behind only the U.S.. which explains why Health2Sync is making this expansion. That’s where its relationship with Sompo Holdings, the Japanese insurance firm which led this Series B, will come into play.
“Sompo has a healthcare-focused digital subsidiary, and it understands how important taking solutions online can be,” Deng said.
The duo hope to offer specialized insurance packages to diabetes patients in the future. Existing backers Alibaba and WI Harper also took part in the funding round.
Asia as a whole is estimated to account for 60 percent of the world’s diabetes, while the number of sufferers reached a record 10 million in Japan last year. Beyond Japan, Health2Sync is aiming to grow its presence in Japan and it is hiring its first employees in Malaysia and Indonesia as it plans a push into Southeast Asia. The company said it has worked with public and private organizations to reduce the price of diabetes care in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore.


This year has seen Apple widely criticized for aiding China’s censorship push by removing VPN apps from its App Store in China. Company CEO Tim Cook painted a rather rosy picture of the situation with comments at the Fortune Forum in Chinese city Guangzhou.
“My hope over time is that some of the things, the couple of things that’s been pulled, come back. I have great hope on that and great optimism on that,” Reuters quoted Cook as saying.
There’s quite a lot to unpack from such a short statement.
Firstly, Apple didn’t just remove a “couple of things” from the reach of China-based users. It would be more accurate to say a couple of hundred, but even that is under counting.
Initial reports in July, when news of the removals surfaced, suggested that around 60 apps, mostly VPNs, were removed from the Chinese version of the App Store. However, last month, two U.S. senators put the number at 674 apps in 2017, more than double the total removed last year, and they include mainstream services like Skype.
As for whether apps will be returned to the App Store, Cook is looking to positives when all signs in reality indicate otherwise.
Under President Xi Jinping, China has advanced its internet censorship push to unprecedented levels. Beyond a clampdown on VPNs began prior to this year and reached crescendo with Apple’s action in July, Beijing has upgraded its ‘Great Firewall’ censorship system, placed restrictions on live-streaming services, celebrity gossip media and interfered with messaging apps to name just a handful of key flashpoints.
While not blocked entirely, WhatsApp users found that they were unable to send videos and photos through the chat app and issues seemed to extend to WeChat, China’s most popular messaging service. The censorship seemed to be linked to the response to the death of dissident Liu Xiaobo, a recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, who lost a battle to liver cancer earlier this month having been denied permission to leave custody to seek medical treatment overseas.


Tim Cook asked about Apple pulling apps from its store: “My view is you show up and you participate because nothing ever changes from the sidelines” adds that “each country in the world decides their laws and their regulations."
— Alexandra Stevenson (@jotted) December 6, 2017



While Cook is right that “nothing ever changes from the sidelines,” it is hard to imagine China relaxing its stance on web censorship given all that has happened.
The reality is that Apple had little choice but to follow Beijing’s line in order to continue to do business in the lucrative Chinese market, but statements like Cook’s today are dangerous because they massively underplay the severity of the situation.

Featured Image: Stephen Lam/Getty Images


Google is continuing its push to make its services accessible for people with lower-end mobile devices or slow internet connections after it introduced Google Go, a data-friendly search app.
The app was first spotted in beta in August — when it was known as Search Lite — and now it has been released for select Android devices (here).
At just 5MB the app won’t take up huge amounts of space on a device — that’s important because cheaper devices that are popular in emerging markets have limited capacity — while it includes offline support and caters to intermittent internet connections, two other factors that affect users in India (its primary target country) and other emerging markets.

Performance optimizations aside, the app is focused on enabling discovery beyond search. That’s to say that it showcases ‘featured snippets’ which give a summary of topics, related content to search results, and suggested topics. There’s also support for trending searches, and you can use voice inputs for search, too.
The app follows the introduction of data-saving app Datally, storage app Files Go and the expansion of YouTube Go, all of which are aimed at making Google and its services for relevant to users in emerging markets. Beyond apps, it is also preparing to ship a ‘Go’ version of Android.

Featured Image: Jon Russell/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)




Intel’s stumbles in the mobile arena grew to become Qualcomm’s gains with its Snapdragon platform, but now it appears that Qualcomm intends to upend their dominance in entry-level PCs as well. Today, Microsoft and Qualcomm announced that Windows would begin running on systems powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon mobile chipsets.
This isn’t entirely earth-shattering given that these are mobile chipsets running on what are still just laptop convertible 2-in-1s or tablets, but the fact that Windows 10 — albeit a more lightweight “Windows 10 S” — can run on Qualcomm 835 chips should still worry Intel quite a bit.
These devices have the brains of smartphones with the battery capacities of laptops. Qualcomm obviously won’t be competing with Intel on the performance of its higher-end chips, but one thing the company highlighted today was just how long its power-saving technologies will extend the battery life of your device.
They referred to this tech as “beyond all-day battery life,” which, as the name implies, suggests that the power efficiency of these PCs will push battery life into a second day of full usage, something that isn’t too likely to be had on most laptops that are powering a full work day. Furthermore, these PCs are optimized to be always on and always LTE-connected.
Asus and HP both announced “Windows on Qualcomm” devices, including the Asus NovaGo and HP ENVY x2. Qualcomm highlighted a 20-hour battery life on the HP ENVY x2.
The main catch is that performance will suffer on apps that aren’t UWP apps, so programs like Google Chrome or Firefox will be emulated on the machines, definitely reducing performance.
Qualcomm is making the bet that keeping PC performance at well-enough while making solid improvements in battery life will be enough to convince OEMs that are already building their smartphones on Snapdragon SoCs to make the switch to Qualcomm for their entry-level ultraportables. The idea of a computer that lasts 18-24 hours per day, as Qualcomm promises, is obviously attractive, especially given how much PC usage is often confined to web browsing, whether the battery life gains make up for the performance sacrifices will be the ultimate question.


Pranav Deshpande
Contributor



Pranav Deshpande is a San Francisco-based product marketer and a volunteer with Startup Bridge at Stanford. Startup Bridge connects leading technology innovators in the U.S. and India to build new relationships for tomorrow’s moonshots.

There’s an old trope in the West that India is like Indian trains — exotic, lurching and slow.
But tropes can be bad as a business strategy — and this trope is causing American companies to miss out on Indian moonshots and trillion-dollar opportunities.
In this article I’ll focus on fintech, which is leapfrogging in a way traditional banking never could. Morgan Stanley expects India’s digital payments penetration to increase from 5 percent today to 20 percent, and the e-commerce market to reach $200 billion, with 475 million e-commerce shoppers, adding up to a GDP upwards of $6 trillion — all by 2027.
Just like India’s mobility revolution. Most Indians went from having zero connectivity to being on the mobile internet without ever seeing a PC or even a landline. India now has 800 million mobile phone users with 430 million having internet connectivity. According to Morgan Stanley, the number of internet users is expected to grow to 915 million by 2027.
The same leapfrogging is unfolding in payments. While the internet changed how Indians communicate, read news and get entertained, it didn’t change how they transact. As this graph shows, the number of credit and debit cards in India has grown only incrementally. Even top-down initiatives by the government, such as the controversial demonetization decision, struggled to reduce reliance on cash.

Debit card usage spiked in November and December 2016 after demonetization. But it looks like it’s returning to levels below credit card transactions again.
What does this have to do with America? And who could the big US of A lose out to?
China. Because China has already tackled the two biggest obstacles to digital payments — building infrastructure and changing consumer behavior in its own backyard and front yard. By developing a rich ecosystem with strong network effects, WeChat has become the Operating System of China. Alipay has done the same with commercial payments. In 2016, China’s digital payments were already 50 times America’s. Alibaba and Tencent understand ecosystems better than anyone else in the world, including American companies.
And now China is showing the boldness to capitalize on a new generation of payments infrastructure and the patience to win the hearts and minds of Indian consumers.
Where is America in all this? 
India’s payments infrastructure is on fire. Bank accounts are the building blocks of financial inclusion, and in just three years, 285 million bank accounts have been added through the JAM program. UPI, or United Payments Interface, also has matured. UPI allows any Indian with a mobile number linked to a bank account to instantly send and receive money. Managed by the NPCI (a nonprofit organization), it also has APIs that allow any application to easily embed instant payments. Tech companies like Google and Flipkart already have UPI-based payment apps in Tez and PhonePe. Major Indian banks also have added UPI to their apps. WhatsApp also has plans to roll out it out to its Indian users.
Payments infrastructure means little without accessible experiences. A new generation of mobile wallet apps is solving that problem. PayTM is the largest with 200 million users. PhonePe also has wallet functionality. With these apps, users can connect their bank accounts or debit cards to transfer funds to the wallet to use for peer-to-peer payments, transact with small businesses or buy cellphone minutes. PayTM made serious inroads after demonetization, with street vendors, nannies and drivers also accepting it.
Alibaba is the single largest shareholder in One97 Communications, PayTM’s parent company, with an investment over $1.2 billion. Alibaba isn’t just looking for a venture scale return on investment. This is a strategic partnership unlike any other seen in India. They’ve publicly stated they see PayTM as a local partner with whom they will share their expertise in e-commerce and payments. There also are strong similarities between the strategies of both companies, with the focus on owning payments to own the consumer. Alibaba wants to get to 2 billion users by 2036. They’re not getting there without significant market share in India.

The second hard problem is changing consumer psychology. Indian consumers are value conscious. They’re wary of new products and require significant social proof before trying them. There’s also a high bar for trust that products need to overcome before a product can be adopted. And let’s face it. Understanding digital payments is hard to understand for most of us. This explains those low debit card usage numbers. Most people don’t even trust debit cards, even though they’re issued by a bank they trust!
China has solved this problem differently than American companies have.
China is looking beyond the 60-100 million affluent Indians and the retail stores that use credit cards. They’re also not getting tripped up by the less affluent 300-500 “middle India” consumers who don’t really use debit cards or trust digital payments. They’re addressing these consumers by studying and investing in where they’re spending their time.
Tencent already has 1 billion users in China who use their products every day to order food, buy tickets, play games and hundreds of other activities. Tencent is instead investing in adjacent industries. Thus, they’ve participated in a $1.1 billion round for Ola, India’s largest ridesharing company, and a $1.4 billion round for Flipkart, the largest e-commerce company.
Where is America in all this? American companies still largely view the Indian financial sector as stodgy and are focused on the urban affluent consumers, versus the entire country.
So far, American investment in India’s booming payments space have been paltry by Chinese standards. The only company with skin in the game is Amazon. They’ve committed $5 billion dollars to India and are buying stakes in Indian retailers. But we’re not seeing the same level of strategic investment and partnerships with local companies.
Despite the deep economic and military ties between the U.S. and India, at the present moment China has stolen a march ahead of America in investing in the Indian fintech frontier. There’s a real risk of American companies being left behind.

Featured Image: Calvste/Shutterstock (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)


It was a busy day in Maui as Qualcomm kicked off this year’s Snapdragon Tech Summit. The San Diego chipmaker announced a two-in-one PC form factor powered by the Snapdragon 835 that has some big name hardware partners like Asus and HP behind it. The company also used the opportunity to tease its latest flagship processor, the Snapdragon 845.
Details are still pretty scarce, but the company confirmed rumors that the chip is due out in 2018. The 845 is almost certain to become ubiquitous on high-end flagships next year, taking the place of the 835, which was introduced this time last year and  powered nearly every high-end handset for the next 12 months.
Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun took to the stage today to announce that his company’s next premium handset would run on the chip. You can expect plenty of other big name Android hardware companies to follow suit soon after. Samsung, Google and LG all built 2017 flagships around the chip — though those companies may well just wait for their next product announcements to throw their weight behind the 845.
The chip will likely be found in other, non-Android devices, as well, including Windows 10 PCs, among others. And given the company’s embrace of VR headsets with the 835, I wouldn’t be too surprised to see the 845 popping up in some of those, as well.
Without divulging too much in the way of specs, Qualcomm SVP Alex Katouzian highlighted a few of the key focuses for the chip, including imaging/video processing, AI, VR/AR and battery life. In other words, precisely what one would expect from the next generation flagship chip from the company. 
We’re likely to hear a lot more about the chip tomorrow, on day two of the summit, so stay tuned.

Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


When it announced the new Surface Pro a few months back, Microsoft also used the opportunity to preview Whiteboard, a Windows 10 app designed to offer creative and business collaboration across devices. Since then, the app’s only been available as a private beta, but starting today, Microsoft’s offering it up as a public beta for anyone with a Windows 10 device. 
Whiteboard is a compelling little app. It’s sort of a digital sibling to Microsoft’s pricey Surface Hub. The app will start rolling out to Windows 10 over the course of the next 24 hours, bringing the ability to essentially brainstorm, ideate, iterate and all of those other fun work things in real time across multiple devices running the same operating system.

The app uses a swap or a pen input, turning objects into standardized shapes in order to create tables, flowcharts, diagrams and the like; autosaving work to the cloud, others can pick up where you’ve left off. It looks like a pretty compelling app, and one that straddles the line between Microsoft’s traditional work focus and its current push to recruit more creative types through its Surface line of products.
Of course, these sort of work apps are really tough to get right, even with all of the advances to cloud-based collaborative over the past few years. Multi-device collaboration does require at least one person have an Office 360 subscription. Whiteboard is out of beta, but still in preview, so it’s not quite the final version. Microsoft’s still soliciting feedback, including feature requests through the app.
No word on whether or when the app might be coming to additional operating systems, but given Microsoft’s mobile strategy of late, I wouldn’t be too shocked to see it arrive on Android and iOS devices in the not too distant future.


Foursquare’s VP of business development Mike Harkey, who has been with the company for more than five years, has left to join Google as its director of global product partnerships.
His LinkedIn page shows that he joined Google this month after serving a lengthy tenure at Foursquare, which has seen a significant shift from an early darling as a check-in product to one with a robust enterprise business and location data set. Foursquare now has products like City Guide, which provide a wide array of tips, locations and other information for venues in different cities.
“[Harkey] moved on to a role at Google after 5 terrific years with Foursquare,” the company said. “We’re wishing him all the best. Jeff Reine, who has been with Foursquare for two years, was named the new VP of Business Development and Enterprise.”
The company raised $45 million at the beginning of last year as it began to capitalize on its data business as co-founder Dennis Crowley took a step back. That data business, indeed, is probably the company’s strongest asset as its location services power myriad services. As Foursquare looks to continue building out those partnerships, Harkey’s departure may be a bit of a speed bump, as he takes with him over to Google a lot of experience working with the platform. Foursquare is going to have to continue building out those kinds of partnerships if it’s going to thrive off its data business.
Over that time, the company has gathered as many as 125,000 developers and powers location services for companies like Uber and Airbnb. While starting off as a consumer product, Foursquare was able to create a thorough set of so-called “true” locations of venues, which might not be a specific latitude and longitude but rather a general area that exists in the minds of consumers. And it built a suite of developer tools on top of that, allowing developers to quickly tap that data if they need a big data set of venues, locations and information around those.
We also reached out to Harkey, and will update when we hear back.

Featured Image: Foursquare


This morning, Frederic reported that Intuit has acquired TSheets, a time-tracking service, for $340 million. That’s one of the highest prices that Intuit has ever paid for an acquisition, roughly equal to the cost of the company’s acquisition of Mint Bills / Check in 2014, and slightly smaller than the acquisition of Demandforce in 2012 for $423 million (which Intuit has since divested in).
Despite its size, the acquisition appears to be fairly standard for Intuit, fitting in well with their small business-focused SaaS strategy. However, what caught my eye is that TSheets is based in Eagle, Idaho, just outside of Boise, and even more importantly, Intuit is going to convert the TSheets headquarters into a new product and engineering office as part of the transaction.
That news might be sweet relief for the 260 employees who work at TSheets, but it is also a strong sign of the “rise of the rest” that we have chronicled for a long time here on TechCrunch.
Venture capitalists like Steve Case have made a strong case for investing outside of major urban areas. Case pushed hard on this theme at TechCrunch Disrupt New York this year, calling for venture investors to look wider for great founders and startups. And as Catherine noted yesterday, Case has followed up that passion with an announcement that he has raised a special $150 million seed fund to exclusively invest in startups located in “the rest.”
It’s great to see more capital getting invested in these startup ecosystems, but the real gains come when the exits start showing up. And few companies seem as interested in rise of the rest startups than Intuit.
Using Intuit’s data along with Crunchbase, I looked at the acquisitions the company has made over the past four years (it’s important to note that smaller acqui-hire-style acquisitions may never be announced). Indeed, 15 of 23 companies that the company has publicly acquired have been outside of Silicon Valley, or roughly two-thirds of the company’s deals. (Unfortunately, purchase price data is harder to track down, so the proportion of dollars is tougher to calculate accurately.)
In the United States, I count eight companies outside of the Valley: two in Los Angeles (Lettuce and Docstoc), and single acquisitions in Sacramento (CustomerLink), Seattle (Full Slate), Philadelphia (Exactor), Boston (Prestwick) and Chicago (itDuzzit), along with today’s acquisition of TSheets in Idaho. That’s particularly interesting given that the company’s headquarters is in  Mountain View, California, and a lot of Valley acquirers prefer to roll acquisitions into their existing offices.
Intuit has repeatedly told investors that one of its top priorities beyond growth of its core product revenue is to expand globally. The company considers the U.S., Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom to be its established markets, and indeed most of its global acquisitions have been in these markets. In the United Kingdom, Intuit acquired Bankstream in London, Acrede in Salisbury, and PaySuite in Brentwood, a suburb of London. In Australia, it acquired two companies, Fifo and Invitco.
What’s interesting is how M&A plays into the company’s designated emerging markets of India, Brazil and France. Intuit acquired KDK Software, which produces software for tax compliance in the Indian market, which the company considers to be a key growth area. It used M&A to expand in Brazil, purchasing ZeroPaper, a cloud-based SMB accounting software product in 2015. The gap appears to be in France, where the company hasn’t made an acquisition (at least, none that I could find), although considers it a key market because of “compliance-heavy needs.”
As one of the few acquirers of small business-focused startups, Intuit’s strategy can give hope to entrepreneurs, particularly outside the Valley. The question is whether more companies will follow Intuit’s lead and buy a majority of their companies outside of their home base, or continue to only do transactions within three blocks of Caltrain in San Francisco.

Featured Image: Chris Dlugosz/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


Facebook wants you to share a bit more about yourself on your profile, so today it’s launching a new feature to web and mobile users called “Did You Know,” where you can answer questions about yourself to clue friends into your secrets, dreams, goals and feelings.

As people back away from statuses and focus more on sharing articles, videos and photos, this feature offers an opportunity for users to answer questions about themselves more directly. So many of Facebook’s recent efforts to change how people customize their profiles have seemed to get buried in the clutter. The inherent share-ability of this might play a bit nicer given its visibility; you can share with the customized colorful backgrounds that FB has pushed on its statuses already.
This feature also really seems like the early stages of something that could lead to more sophisticated advertiser profiles, but at the moment the questions are honestly pretty hokey. Here’s a smattering of the questions Facebook said could pop up in the “did you know?” section:

The superpower I want most is…
The first thing I’d do after winning the lottery is…
A guilty pleasure that I’m willing to admit to is…
Mondays make me feel like…

The feature is all a tad reminiscent of what tbh was doing to integrate asking users light and friendly questions about their friends. This is the other side of the coin, asking users to talk more about themselves.
Tbh, which Facebook acquired in October, has tanked in the App Store ratings, dropping from being the No. 1 downloaded app around when it was purchased to being the 771st most-downloaded app in the U.S. currently, according to App Annie data. The startup said it had 2.5 million daily active users when Facebook acquired it.
tbh App Annie rankings
A healthy amount of these features eventually seem to find themselves as dead-ends, but Facebook is obviously looking to explore how it can goad users to get more comfortable answering questions about themselves and their friends. It’s obvious why they would want to build this type of relationship, but whether they’ll find success with apps like tbh and this new profile feature remains a bit unclear.


Apple today is introducing a new way for app developers to acquire users for their apps: it’s launching a pay-per-install advertising product called Search Ads Basic. The “basic” branding signals that this product is being aimed at smaller developers compared with the existing Search Ads product, which is now being renamed to Search Ads Advanced.
Launched last year, Search Ads have been one of the biggest changes to date in terms of improving discovery of mobile applications on the App Store. The idea with the original Search Ads product was to help developers better target potential users using specific information – like location, gender, keywords, and whether or not they’ve ever installed the app before.
After configuring a campaign, those ads would then appear at the top of the App Store search results when users searched for a keyword or terms, like “games,” or “war games,” for example.
Developers paid for these ad placements when users tapped on them.

That product, now called Search Ads Advanced, isn’t going away. Instead, it’s being joined by a more entry-level option, Search Ads Basic.
In this case, developers aren’t paying for taps, but for actual app installations as a result of the ad.

Setting up a Search Ads Basic campaign has also been designed to be a much simpler process. The only parameters that have to be entered are the app to be advertised, the budget, and the amount the developer wants to pay per install.
Here, Apple will helpfully suggest the maximum the developer should pay based on historical data from the App Store related to the type of app being marketed. While other pay-per-install ad campaigns from third parties may offer similar results in terms of installs, Apple’s advantage is that it has direct access to App Store data and the ads themselves show up directly in the App Store – not elsewhere on the web.
Apple’s implementation of ad targeting also respects user privacy. While it does use its historical understanding of App Store trends to help target ads, it doesn’t build specific profiles on individual users for targeting purposes.
In addition to the ease-of-use, a side effect of using Apple’s Search Ads product is that it can lead to a higher chart ranking. Apple’s algorithm takes into consideration number of downloads and velocity of those installs to move an app up the Top Charts. Because Apple considers an install from Search Ads a “high quality” download, it counts those installs towards the app’s chart position and its rise.
There are no limitations on the type of app or size of the company that can use Search Ads Basic, but it will make the most sense for smaller shops who aren’t yet ready to toy with Search Ads’ more advanced options. Plus, Search Ads Basic limits budgets to $5,000 per month, while Search Ads Advanced has no such upper limit.
Since its launch, Search Ads have been largely embraced by developers as an easy way to increase their app’s exposure. Apple’s data indicates that conversion rates for the original Search Ads product have been holding steady at over 50 percent, while the cost per acquisition has been below $1.50. Compared to other platforms, this is below the market norms.
The new ad product is launching today and will be available on searchads.apple.com alongside the Search Ads Advanced offering. From there, developers can start their campaigns then track results in an online dashboard showing how many users installed the app, the campaign budget, and the amount paid.
Initially launched in the U.S., Search Ads were more recently expanded internationally, to markets including the U.K., Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Switzerland and Mexico.
However, Search Ads Basic won’t roll out to these markets until sometime next year.


Windows laptops and tablets have traditionally run on X86 processors from the likes of Intel and AMD. Microsoft experimented with using ARM-based processors when it launched the Surface RT and Windows RT in 2012 — and it cost the company dearly. The failure of the Surface RT was mostly due to software, though. The system could only run a small subset of applications that had been specifically compiled for it — and hence you couldn’t just install Chrome or Photoshop, for example. It didn’t help that Microsoft’s marketing for the Surface RT was confusing for many consumers.
Fast-forward to today and Microsoft is ready to give ARM on laptops another try. But this time, you will be able to run any program you wish. Windows 10 for ARM is officially launching today, and while Microsoft itself isn’t launching an ARM-based Surface device just yet, the company has partnered with the likes of HP to launch a new class of laptops that Microsoft officially brands as “Always Connected Devices.”
The promise of using ARM-based chips (and we’re mostly talking Qualcomm Snapdragon processors here), is that you’ll get the kind of user experience that you’ve become accustomed to from your smartphones. That means these devices will turn on almost immediately, feature wireless LTE connectivity and — maybe most importantly — offer the kind of battery life that’ll let you get through a day or two (and, in the future, maybe a week) of work without having to recharge.

Ideally, of course, that’s exactly what users who really shouldn’t have to care about which processors sit in their laptops will experience once the first ARM-based laptops go on sale. ASUS and HP, which both worked with Microsoft on bringing the first Windows 10 for ARM devices to market, both claim that their first entries into this market will offer over 20 hours of active-use battery life and close to 30 days of standby.
ASUS is entering this market with the NovaGo, a foldable Gigabit LTE laptop powered by the Snapdragon 835 platform. HP is bringing the ENVY x2 Surface clone to the party. HP’s entry offers 4G LTE2 support.
The biggest difference between the failed RT experiment and these new devices is that users will be able to run any existing Windows applications and that all modern peripherals will just work, too.
As Erin Chapple, Microsoft’s GM of Windows told me, the company recompiled the Windows 10 operating system for ARM. There is no emulation at the operating system level. The team spent quite a bit of time trying to decide where to set the boundary between the operating system and the emulated layer, though. In the end, Microsoft decided to natively compile all of the DLLs (that is, most of the Windows libraries) and set the emulation layer above that.
For everything that sits above this and needs to be emulated, Windows 10 on ARM uses a dynamic binary translator to translate X86 code into ARM64 code on-the-fly.
Because of these design choices, most applications should run with almost native-like performance, because most standard Windows apps tend to call the operating system APIs (including those for graphics) directly — and all of those libraries have been recompiled, after all. Any time you are dealing with an app that’s heavily CPU-bound, you’ll see a performance hit.
Over time, though, Microsoft will surely make it easier to bring into its marketplace applications that have been pre-compiled for ARM, so that CPU-heavy applications will be able to run at native speeds, too.



HP




HP 2








Rene Haas, the head of ARM’s intellectual property group, told me that it’s worth remembering that his company started working with Microsoft back in 2008 (and not just around Windows RT but also around the Windows Mobile ecosystem).
“We are pretty excited about where we are at,” he told me. “It’s been a long engagement with Microsoft around this platform but also, a lot has changed since the first time they were looking at windows on ARM.”
He said that a few years ago, ARM only offered a 32-bit architecture, for example, and that ARM-based chips have only now reached the point where they are powerful enough to enable laptop-like performance (indeed, Microsoft’s Chapple also noted that one of the motivations for Qualcomm here is that its chips are now so powerful they eclipse the standard phone workloads and the company is looking for other places to use them).
“I’ve lived through the Windows RT journey and I believe we’ve taken a number of the past learnings that came from that to take a new approach to enable Windows on ARM that’s differentiated both in terms of the core platform experience and that’s differentiated because of the core promise of Windows,” Sones said.
She also stressed that she hopes that Windows on ARM will push Intel forward, too, and she expects that this device category will include Intel-powered machines in the future. “We’ve all seen that Intel is at their best when they are under pressure,” she added.
ARM’s Haas expects that his company will continue to offer more powerful architectures with double-digit performance gains every year. In his view, we’ve now reached the tipping point where ARM-based laptops can compete with Intel-based ones. As the power of the ARM platform increases, he said, “it starts to move us into a class where we can be on even footing to deliver a no-compromise experience on a laptop PC.”
Because we haven’t used any of these new devices yet, we simply don’t know if they are any good. What we have seen, though, is that there’s a market for instant-on PCs in the form of Google’s Chromebooks. Both Google’s and Microsoft’s aim here is to offer their vision of what the future of mobile computing (and work) beyond the smartphone will look like. “We are competing around this new culture of work,” Microsoft’s GM of device strategy and ecosystem Roanne Sones acknowledged. “That’s what’s changing and we need to make our device experience and our PC experience modern.”
In this context, ARM’s Haas also stressed that this new architecture will enable new form factors, too, simply because of the fact that if you don’t need a fan, you can put the CPU anywhere in a device (even behind the screen) to enable new foldable or detachable products (or to cram in more batteries into these laptops).
It’s interesting to see that Microsoft is launching this platform without a flagship device in its own Surface lineup. Maybe it’s doing this to avoid any of the lingering confusion around the Surface RT, but the Microsoft team itself claims that it’s doing this because it wanted to work closely with its ecosystem partners to build, validate and harden this platform. Either way, I expect that we’ll see an ARM-powered Surface device in the not so distant future.


Jake Bright
Contributor



Jake Bright is a writer and author in New York City. He is co-author of The Next Africa.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Will Interswitch still be the company that brings Sub-Saharan Africa its big tech windfall?
Africa Roundup: Lori Systems wins BFX Africa, Andela raises $40M, Jumia lends to SMEs, Safaricom launches incubator



Lagos based online real estate startup ToLet.com.ng acquired Jumia House Nigeria for an undisclosed amount. Jumia House is a subsidiary of the continent’s lone tech unicorn — Pan-African e-commerce giant Jumia.com.
ToLet and Jumia House Nigeria will merge platforms under the new name PropertyPro.ng.
The $1.2 million Series A startup was able to buy part of a $1 billion company with the help of its lead investor, Frontier Digital Ventures (FDV). While ToLet originally reported to TechCrunch that FDV served primarily as a facilitator of the deal, both now confirm FDV helped finance the deal. FDV went a little further, and acquired 100 percent interests in Jumia House Ghana, and Jumia House Angola, according to a company spokesperson.
The new PropertyPro entity will combine ToLet’s and Jumia House NG’s listings to create the largest online real estate listings platform in Nigeria with 65 percent of the market, according to ToLet Co-Founder Sulaiman Balogun. The platform will generate revenues primarily from agent subscription fees. PropertyPro will also expand agents and listings across Nigeria and be available on an Android app.
 
Facebook’s New Nigeria Hub
Facebook announced the 2018 opening of NG_Hub, a Lagos based tech space managed in partnership with CcHub Nigeria. TechCrunch checked in with CcHub CEO Bosun Tijani on the hub’s core details. “I think the core of it is for Facebook to place a bet on high tech startups…that may not get a chance in Africa―augmented reality, artificial intelligence…data driven ventures―and build a space that can support startups at that level,” he said.
The actual space will be based Yaba, Tijani told TechCrunch, referring to Lagos’s unofficial IT district.
“There will be a virtual reality lab, a creator lab, and a co-working space within it,” he said. “The program will not be limited to the space itself,” according to Tijani, who said NG_Hub will “run an acceleration program…so other technology hubs from across Nigeria can also support startups through the program.” An official opening will likely be sometime in Q1 of 2018.

Update on Africa’s IPO Landscape
Nigerian fintech firm Interswitch—which provides much of Nigeria’s digital banking and payments infrastructure—will likely go public on the LSE in 2019, according to company statements and sources. As reported in TechCrunch in 2016, the Helios Investment Partners backed company (now beyond startup phase) was poised for a listing on the London stock exchanges at a $1 billion valuation. Nearly two years on it hasn’t happened, delaying what would have been Africa’s first big listing on a foreign exchange by a VC backed tech company.
In a September 2017 interview, Interswitch Divisional Chief Executive Officer Akeem Lawal named “unfavorable equity markets” and reaffirmed an IPO, saying “It will happen before the end of 2019.”
TechCrunch checked in with a couple of Nigerian tech insiders on Interswitch’s prospects to become Africa’s first big IPO — and the possibility another venture could beat them to it.
Paga CEO Tayo Oviosu named Nigeria’s “macroeconomic situation” and “ volatility of the Naira” as culprits for the delay—noting the Nigerian economy and Naira improved in 2017. On timing for an Interswitch public listing, “They’re gearing themselves up to go back and do an IPO…probably not next year, more likely the year after,” Oviosu told TechCrunch.
Omobola Johnson — Nigeria’s former Minister of Communication Technology and Senior Partner at TLCom Capital — thinks Interswitch is still ripe to go public. “Interswitch as a company…still continues to do well…Interswitch is still growing, it’s still profitable, and it still has significant market share in Nigeria and other African markets…They are still very strong to be the [continent’s] first significant tech IPO,” Johnson said. She named Andela, Twiga Foods, and Flutterwave as other future Africa IPO contenders, for a 3-5 year window.                     
More Africa Related Stories @TechCrunch

·         This Tech Startup Is Trying To Tackle Waste in Africa
·         Shujaa Delivery Aims to Complete With Aramax, DHL, and Others

African Tech Around The Net    
·         MEST Launches Incubator Spaces in Lagos, Cape Town―@VentureBurn
·         African Fintech Company JUMO Raises US$24M for Expansion―@ITWebAfrica
·         Female-Focused Angel Investment Fund Launched in Africa―@DisruptAfrica
·         AFF Disrupt To Herald Nigeria’s First Fintech Accelerator―@TechCabal
·         China’s Transsion Dominates Africa Mobile Phone Market―@FT
·         Hiring Firm Shortlist Acquires East Africa’s Spire Education―@TechWeez
·         Africa Set to Top 1 Billion Mobile Internet Connections In Five Years―@Reuters
·         Technology May Help Compensate for Africa’s Lack of Manufacturing―@TheEconomist


Amazon and Google’s feud continues today, as Google is pulling its YouTube app – again – from Amazon’s Alexa-powered Echo Show device. This will be followed by the app’s removal from Fire TV in the near future.
As you may recall, Google wasn’t too happy with the way Amazon had initially implemented YouTube on the Echo Show. It looked different and was lacking a lot of features YouTube users expect. That led to Google pulling access to YouTube for Echo Show device owners earlier this fall.
However, a couple of weeks ago, the YouTube app returned to Echo Show – a signal that seemed to indicate all was well between the companies.
As it turned out, that was not the case.
In fact, Google didn’t even know that Amazon had brought the app back – they learned about it from the press, sources familiar with Google’s situation have told TechCrunch.
Amazon had apparently worked around the block by implementing the web version of YouTube.  This version was also built without Google’s input.
While the original app lacked key YouTube features like channel subscriptions, related videos, commenting and sharing, among other things, the new version of YouTube that replaced it now overlays voice controls on top of the experience, which Google claims is a violation of its Terms of Service.

The original Echo Show app; image credit – Voicebot
But this feud here isn’t just about YouTube. It’s a broader battle between the two companies which is also tied to Amazon’s more recent decision to pull even more of Google’s products from its online site, where they had previously been available for sale.
Amazon has historically leveraged its dominant position in e-commerce to promote its own products – like Fire TV and Echo – over similar items from competitors, like Chromecast, Apple TV, and a smart speaker from LINE, for example. Today, Amazon doesn’t carry Google products like Chromecast and Google Home and it doesn’t make Prime Video available to Google Cast users.
The nail in the coffin, though, seems to be last month’s decision by Amazon to stop selling Nest’s latest products, too.
This includes the removal of the Nest Thermostat E, Nest Camera IQ and Nest Secure alarm system from Amazon’s online store. Nest was not given an explanation, but the timing of the removal came shortly after YouTube was pulled from Echo Show. Coincidence? I think not.
Previously, Amazon had even marketed Nest devices as “working with Alexa” and listed the thermostat as one of “Amazon’s Choice” picks. In other words, the removal was clearly a coded message to Google to back down on its Terms of Service enforcements regarding YouTube.
The Echo Show version of YouTube will stop working as of today, but Fire TV users will instead be warned that the app will disappear on January 1, 2018. That’s long enough for them to make other arrangements (perhaps, ahem, buy a different streaming player?). Or maybe they can use the newly added Amazon Silk web browser to load the YouTube site on Fire TV – a hack that we hear should work for the time being at least.
The two companies have been negotiating for some time in an attempt to reach an agreement that will benefit both their customers, so it’s unclear why they’re not able to come to some sort of reasonable compromise here.
After all, the end result is that they’re making both companies’ customers unhappy. Customers who ultimately live in a world where they’re not choosing between Amazon or Google, but may use products and services from both.
As the feud continues, Amazon users won’t be able to watch one of the world’s most popular video services on Amazon hardware. Meanwhile, online shoppers won’t be able to buy some top selling hardware and smart home devices like the Google Home, Chromecast and Nest devices on the biggest e-commerce site.
“We’ve been trying to reach agreement with Amazon to give consumers access to each other’s products and services,” a Google spokesperson told TechCrunch. “But Amazon doesn’t carry Google products like Chromecast and Google Home, doesn’t make Prime Video available for Google Cast users, and last month stopped selling some of Nest’s latest products. Given this lack of reciprocity, we are no longer supporting YouTube on Echo Show and FireTV. We hope we can reach an agreement to resolve these issues soon.”
Amazon provided the following comment when contacted:
Echo Show and Fire TV now display a standard web view of YouTube.com and point customers directly to YouTube’s existing website. Google is setting a disappointing precedent by selectively blocking customer access to an open website. We hope to resolve this with Google as soon as possible.
 
 


Having conquered just about every other form of media, Marvel’s getting into the scripted podcasting game. Launching in Spring of next year, ’Wolverine: The Long Night’ marks the comics-turned-multimedia company’s first foray into the space. The series kicks off with a 10-episode season, premiering on Stitcher’s premium service, where it will be an exclusive until it makes its way to other platforms in the fall. 
Marvel describes the project as a “hybrid of mystery and the larger-scale fantasy,” following a pair of agents on the trail of a serial killer in Alaska. The main suspect, naturally, is everyone’s favorite metal skeletoned Canadian mutant, Wolverine, voiced by Richard Armitage, probably best known for his role as Thorin Oakenshield in The Hobbit film trilogy. 
In fact, Marvel’s pulled together a pretty solid voice cast for this first foray into the genre, including 30 Rock’s Scott Adsit, Christopher Guest regular Bob Balaban and Brian Stokes Mitchell of Mr. Robot. There will also be a few cameos along the way, including, oddly enough, comedian and podcaster, Chris Gethard. 
The companies are going full-on radio drama for this one, with sound effects recorded in surround sound, as the agents travel through the forests and cabins for Logan. The effect could either be really cool, or a bit goofy, depending on execution. Thankfully, Marvel and Stitcher have enlisted what looks to be an equally capable production team for the project, including comic writer Ben Percy, director Brendan Baker and sound designer Chloe Prasinos, who worked on Reply All for Gimlet, prior to joining up. 
Should be a fun experiment in old timey storytelling on a new media, either way. And hey, everyone loves Wolverine. 


Publishing conglomerate Ziff Davis has officially bought online news site Mashable for a mere $50 million, according to Recode.
Last month, we followed up on a report in The Wall Street Journal mentioning a sale was in the works.
The sale is now final and it’s a hell of a deal, considering the site’s valuation was $250 million just one year ago, when Time Warner’s Turner led a $15 million round in the company.
The all-out sale of Mashable comes after the publisher reportedly tried and failed to secure additional funding throughout this year. Much of that failure may be due to a projected loss this year after pushing toward more video content.
Ziff Davis now plans to refocus the news site toward tech and tech-lifestyle content, which is what Mashable originally focused on when it launched in 2005.
Along with that refocus comes some inevitable layoffs. According to an internal letter sent to Recode, at least 50 people will be laid off due to the transition, though Mashable founder Pete Cashmore will stay on.
“At our last meeting, you asked whether there would be changes to the organization post-acquisition,” the letter from Cashmore to employees reads. “Unfortunately, I must confirm that this will be the case. It is never easy to see colleagues and friends depart the company. While such decisions are difficult and painful, I can assure you they were made only after very careful consideration and based on what we firmly believe will provide Mashable with a strategy and structure that will drive a successful, sustainable and profitable future.”
The news comes as other online outlets like BuzzFeed announced last week it would be laying off 100 people, or six percent of its workforce.

Featured Image: Slaven Vlasic/Getty Images


Shervin Pishevar, co-founder of Sherpa Capital and co-founder of Hyperloop One, is taking an immediate leave of absence from both companies, as well as from his board responsibilities at Sherpa’s portfolio companies.
Pishevar, in his statement via a lawyer, said it was his idea to take a leave of absence and that the decision was not made lightly. Pishevar’s hope is that his absence “will eliminate any potential distraction to the great and important work being done at these companies.”
This comes about a week after multiple women accused Pishevar of sexual misconduct. In response to those allegations, Pishevar, through his lawyer, said the allegations are part of a “smear campaign” against him. One allegation described how Pishevar “forcibly kissed” someone and later showed that same person photos of vaginas on his phone.
Here’s his full statement:

As many of you may have seen in recent news coverage, I filed a lawsuit last month against what I believe to be potential perpetrators of a smear campaign against me. As that legal action progresses, it is my priority to ensure that the Sherpa Capital family is not adversely affected.
Therefore, I have decided to take an immediate leave of absence from my duties at Sherpa Capital and Virgin Hyperloop One, as well as my portfolio company board responsibilities, so that I can pursue the prosecution of my lawsuit, where I am confident I will be vindicated. Through the discovery process, I hope to unearth who fabricated the fraudulent London ‘police report,’ and who is responsible for spreading false rumors about me.
This was a decision I came to and proposed on my own accord. It is not one I took lightly and it was a difficult decision that was guided by Sherpa Capital’s abiding belief in service and putting others before ourselves.
I care deeply about the incredible teams at Sherpa Capital and our portfolio companies and Virgin Hyperloop One, and hope that my decision to take a leave of absence will eliminate any potential distraction to the great and important work being done at these companies.


As Pinterest looks to further expand beyond just the audience you’d expect to use it, it’s going to have to start chasing down users and meet them on different territories — and that includes messaging apps.
So today Pinterest is launching a pair of updates that is going to help it tap into that audience of people that are sharing content on Facebook Messenger. People might already be copying links to Pinterest and pasting them in Messenger, but the company is looking to make that a little more seamless to get to the point where you can go into Messenger and be able to regularly interact with Pinterest.
The bot works as you’d expect — you open up a chat with the Pinterest bot and type in an idea you’re interested in, like food or clothing. The bot will then start recommending ideas from Pinterest, for which you can take a deeper dive in at any point if you’re interested in them. Pinterest is the latest in a wave of companies to see some kind of opportunity in a platform like Messenger, though it still seems the full story on that has yet to play out.
The chat extension brings Pinterest’s experience closer to the Messenger experience, allowing users to both link out pins in a Facebook message and dive deeper into that content within the messenger. So when you go into a pin on Messenger, you’ll start to see and feel something that is a little bit like the core Pinterest experience without actually leaving Messenger.
This isn’t the first time we’ve seen Pinterest start to look beyond just its home platform in order to get people closer and closer to executing on an idea. Pinterest earlier this year rolled out QR codes that will show up in stores, another move that’s trying to collapse the distance between a user’s everyday behavior and getting them to actually get on Pinterest and start saving content.
With more than 200 million monthly active users, Pinterest is still a bit of a blip compared to Facebook — though, the audience behavior is certainly different in a lot of ways. But as Pinterest looks to continue to grow, it has to start looking in places that it might not normally look in order to get people interested in the service. Getting tied more closely with Facebook Messenger, a service with more than 1 billion users, seems like a pretty natural place to start.

Featured Image: Pinterest


Lyft just announced that it has added an additional $500 million to its most recent funding round, a $1 billion raise announced in October. The now-$1.5 billion round includes participation from Fidelity Management & Research Company as well as the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Fund.
Lyft’s post-money valuation as of this add-on raise is now $11.5 billion, with the expanded round still led by Alphabet’s CapitalG.
2017 has been a banner year for Lyft in terms of performance, with expansion to well over 100 new markets, including Canada sometime this month. It has also more than doubled its total miles driven for rides this year, with a month yet to go before 2018.


Jinn, the London on-demand delivery startup that shut down and was put into administration after being unable to pay creditors, has found a buyer for some of its assets.
TechCrunch understands that global logistics company Rico Logistics Ltd., under its London-based luxury delivery service Henchman, has acquired the Jinn app, brand and (presumably) customer base.
A regulatory filing is expected next week with further details, but for now the price is not being disclosed. I understand, however, that no one at Jinn has kept their job as part of the asset purchase.
In a message addressed to “Partners and Customers” that was displayed on the Jinn website last month but has now been removed, Henchman said it had acquired the brand of Jinnapp.com and was in the process of “relaunching the service to all Jinnapp.com clients and Partners”. It also announced the intention to roll the Jinn brand into “our new on demand concierge brand for 2018”.
It’s not clear if that is in reference to Henchman or a new brand altogether. However, I understand that the acquired Jinn app is being operated within Rico’s Henchman team, which is headed up by Henchman app Managing Director Amarjit Pall. I’ve contacted both Pall and Jinn’s legally appointed administrator for further details but both have so far declined to comment beyond what has already been made public.
What we do know is that the Henchman brand and app, a London-only on-demand concierge delivery service, was itself acquired by Rico earlier this year. That left Henchman’s founder Ryan Perera free to pivot to a new B2B startup called Captain.ai that offers software to help restaurants use AI to automate delivery driver dispatches.
Meanwhile, in a message seen by TechCrunch that was sent last month to couriers that had contracted for Jinn, Henchman said it wanted to have a “chat”. That’s likely in reference to restarting the Jinn service that runs 7 days a week, although how many of those couriers will want to take up that possibility remains to be seen. A recent regulatory filing, as reported by The Telegraph, says that 1,800 couriers have been left out of pocket — such is the insecurity of startup life and the wider gig economy.
As we reported at the time of Jinn’s shuttering in October, it came after a turbulent time for the startup over the last year. In May, the company, which operated a same-hour ‘shop on your behalf’ delivery app similar to Postmates in the U.S., announced that it had raised $10 million in further funding. That, in theory, brought total raised by Jinn to a modest $20 million in comparison to other players in the on-demand delivery space. However, it isn’t clear that the full $10 million entered the startup’s balance sheet and was likely contingent on milestones and delivered in tranches, whilst, according to the Telegraph, it now looks like some of that was actually debt financing.
This was followed just two months later with news that Jinn had pulled out of all markets outside London, “pausing” operations in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham and Leeds in the U.K., and Madrid and Barcelona in Spain. We also learned that Jinn co-founder and COO Leon Herrera had departed the startup a few weeks earlier.
Those drastic cutbacks appeared to have been enough to save the company, and one month later Jinn claimed that it was profitable at an EBITDA level, with 30 per cent contribution margins, and expecting to close the year with $22 million in sales. This evidently didn’t pan out and the “acquisition” by Rico looks like a partial fire sale at best.


Apple’s played a central role in podcast since its earliest days — heck, even the term was borrowed from its big hardware product at the time. But the company’s marketshare appears to have eroded somewhat as players like Google and Spotify have entered the market, reportedly down from 70-percent of podcast downloads in 2015 to 55-percent in 2017.
That’s still not a bad place to be, but the more podcasts become legitimized through big name shows like Serial, the more the company will have to bat back the competition. In light of all this, Apple may well be planting its flag in the sand. This morning, the Hot Pod newsletter reported that the company had picked up a small Bay Area-based startup called Pop Up Archive in what appears to the be an effort to build up its in-house podcasting tools. 
The company offered TechCrunch a followup, noting, “Apple buys smaller technology companies from time to time, and we generally do not discuss our purpose or plans.” 
As for what those plans are, keeping Pop Up Archive operating as is doesn’t appear to be on the list. The startup abruptly closed up shop late last month, a day after posting message on Twitter asking users to download all of their content before then. 
You’ve likely not heard of the company, unless this is a world you follow closely. Pop Up Archive was founded back in  2012 and has remained pretty small since then. We first caught wind of it back in 2014, when it appeared at the 500 Startups Demo Day. At the time, the company was demonstrating a tool that tags audio usually transcribed textual data. A user uploads a podcast and it offers tags.
Sounds like a small thing, sure, but it’s a potentially important one when you’re dealing with long audio files. iTunes and the iPhone Podcast app could greatly benefit from additional contextual search. It would go a long way toward finding and recommending content via the service. At the moment, Apple’s recommendations are limited to similar shows. Pop Archive also maintained Audiosearch, a podcast search engine that also closed up shop on November 28.


Pivotal wants to be the development platform that serves everyone, and today at their SpringOne Platform (S1P) developer conference in San Francisco, they announced a huge upgrade to their Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform (PCF) that includes support for serverless computing, containers and a new app store.
As James Watters, senior VP of strategy sees it, this is all part of a deliberate strategy by Pivotal to provide a complete developer experience. “One of the things we do pretty well is curate an enterprise experience for folks. What we are doing with this release is coming forward in a curative way — these are the cloud native interfaces you need,” he said.
That includes three main elements. For starters if you want to run containers using Kubernetes, the popular container orchestration tool, the company is making the Pivotal/Google/VMware Kubernetes container product announced in August generally available.
As I wrote at the time, describing the roles of the three companies: “Google brings Kubernetes to the table, the open-source container orchestration tool. Pivotal adds the Platform as a Service piece with Cloud Foundry and VMware adds a management layer to pull it all together.”
In addition, the company is offering a serverless product. Serverless computing enables developers to create applications that only access a server when they need one, usually when a specific event triggers the requirement. This saves companies from the cost of continually running a server when they only need it for the event triggers.
The base PCF platform also gets some love with more fundamental Windows Server and VMware NSX-T integration along with a new a new Healthwatch dashboard that provides insights into the health of application running on PCF.
Perhaps the biggest part of the announcement is the release of an app store they are calling the PCF marketplace. It’s designed to provide direct access to cloud services that PCF users can plug directly into the platform. It’s interesting that CoreOS introduced a similar service earlier today for the release of Tectonic 1.8.
Perhaps app stores are the new thing for container-focused platforms, but both companies see it in similar terms. It provides a way to use best of breed cloud services without getting locked into one proprietary public cloud stack and getting stuck with a single vendor for any particular service.
“One of the problems for big enterprises is moving to the public cloud and it’s hard to get started. With our new service catalog, they can connect to something like Google machine learning, and they are good to go,” Watters explained.
The new app store includes connectors for GitHub, Splunk, New Relic and hundreds of others, according to Pivotal
Pivotal is an odd duck in some ways. It’s an independent company that’s raised over $1.7 billion. Its last round in 2016 was for over $650 million.  Yet it falls under the federation of companies that made up EMC, the company that Dell bought in 2016 for $67 billion. Other investors have included GE, Microsoft and Ford.

Featured Image: Raysonho/Wikimedia Commons UNDER A CC0 LICENSE


Amagi, a startup trying to rethink the way TV broadcasters deliver their content, is launching in the United States.
As a TV viewer, you may not see any big issues with the current broadcast infrastructure, but Amagi says satellite delivery is expensive, time-consuming and limits a broadcaster’s ability to customize their content to different geographies.
In contrast, the startup’s Cloudport platform uses cloud infrastructure to deliver the same content. That means that as broadcasters expand globally, they don’t need any satellite or local hardware. It also allows them to create localized content and gives them a single dashboard where they can monitor all their different feeds.
Behind the scenes, Cloudport uses artificial intelligence to automate parts of the process, like detecting black frames. And it allows broadcaster to create their own on-demand streaming channels, too.
In the launch announcement, co-founder K.A. Srinivasan said the costs of traditional satellite playout are “unsustainable.”
“This model also prices out mid-sized broadcasters and content owners who want to launch their own channels,” Srinivasan said. “To navigate the environment, broadcasters and content owners need to leverage cloud technology to stay competitive.”
To be clear, Amagi offers satellite- and fiber-based delivery as well, though it emphasizes the cloud platform. It also combines different approaches, for example by using a hybrid strategy to help Dim Sum TV deliver regionalized feeds throughout South East Asia.
This also sounds like one of those “launches” that acknowledges something that’s already in-progress. Amagi was originally based in Bangalore, but it says it’s now headquartered in New York and also has an office in Los Angeles. And it’s already working with Vice Media and Turner Broadcasting — for example, Vice used the platform to launch new Viceland channel feeds in Africa, New Zealand and elsewhere.

Featured Image: Amagi


Ultrahaptics lets you touch what you see in virtual and augmented reality, or even give a 2D poster 3D feeling. It uses small speaker-like ultrasound wave emitters to give the sensation of pressure and texture when you’re just waving your hands in the open air.



Ultrahaptics CTO Tom Carter demoed the technology onstage today at TechCrunch’s Disrupt Berlin conference. It feels like some combination of static electricity from laundry, a fan and heavy bass without the sound.
He showed how he could allow you to feel a movie poster you pass on the street. In his demo, you could wave your hands in front of a Star Wars: The Last Jedi poster, and touch “the force” — a tingly feeling synced to a lightsaber sound and animation of crackling energy on the poster’s screen.
The startup has raised around $38 million to bring the ultrasound technology to market. It could eventually be built into VR headsets or tabletop models.
I feel the force, demoing Ultrahaptics’ ultrasound emitter Star Wars poster
Carter claims that the technology is totally safe, which you’d hope, considering ultrasound is how we do imaging of babies in the womb. The technology could compete with alternative ways to feel virtual reality, like Tactical Haptics’ Reactive Grip product — a controller with moving surfaces that rub against your hands to give the impression of a fish tugging on a line or you stretching a piece of rubber.
For now, Ultrahaptics can only let you feel a vague sensation of touch, but it’s working on letting you sense different textures, too. Unfortunately, ultrasound won’t ever be strong enough to make it seem like you’re actually holding a complex virtual object like a gun while playing a first-person shooter game. But it could still let you interact with virtual reality or augmented reality without the need for gloves or wearables.


Long-term, Carter imagines cars using the technology to deliver non-distracting information to a driver. And eventually, he believes ultrasound will be paired with voice technology. You’ll be able to sift through data or navigate interfaces with voice, but then touch or manipulate what you call up.
Virtual reality has taken a lot longer to “arrive” than many people expected. Headset penetration is pretty low, great experiences are somewhat scarce and augmented reality that better integrates into life is starting to eclipse VR. But as VR and AR mature, technology like Ultrahaptics could boost immersion and reduce the feeling that you’re divorced from the real world.


	


At the very beginning, there were 15 startups. After two days of incredibly fierce competition, we now have a winner.
Startups participating in the Startup Battlefield have all been hand-picked to participate in our highly competitive startup competition. They all presented in front of multiple groups of VCs and tech leaders serving as judges for a chance to win €42,000 and the coveted Disrupt Cup.
After hours of deliberations, TechCrunch editors pored over the judges’ notes and narrowed the list down to five finalists: Blik, Caspar Health, eTrack Tech, Lia Diagnostics and Wandelbots.
These startups made their way to the finale to demo in front of our final panel of judges, which included: Suranga Chandratillake (Balderton Capital), Tugce Ergul (Angel Labs), Luciana Lixandru (Accel Partners), Matthew Panzarino (TechCrunch) and Mark Schmitz (Lakestar).
And now, meet the Startup Battlefield winner of TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin 2017.
Winner: Lia Diagnostics



The Lia Diagnostics pregnancy test will be the first-ever flushable test to hit the market, offering a more sustainable, disposable, convenient and private way for women to find out if they’re pregnant or not. Unlike traditional tests, Lia’s tests are made from a special paper that will disperse in water and biodegrade.

Read more about Lia Diagnostics in our separate post.
Runner-Up: Blik



Blik aims to modernize the process of knowing what’s in your warehouse, where certain items are stored and where they are in the production process. To do this, it uses a combination of wireless sensors and indoor location tracking.
Read more about Blik in our separate post.






		


Netflix has been experimenting with TV shows that provide an element of interactivity, allowing viewers to alter the course of the program by choosing among a number of options mid-show. Those have been aimed primarily at kids or young teens, but now the company has confirmed plans to bring the format to adult viewers.
Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos told Bloomberg that it’s preparing an experimental show aimed at older audiences after seeing how younger viewers responded to the shows it created for kids. As with the youth-oriented programming, viewers will be able to choose from a couple of alternate storyline options at key junction points in the show, changing the plot considerable.
Choose-your-own-adventure TV isn’t entirely new – NBC was working on one back in 2008, for instance, and HBO’s Steven Soderbergh project Mosaic is a much more recent example, which launched in November this year alongside a companion app.
Still, it obviously hasn’t taken over from linear storytelling as a popular medium for video content.
Netflix is also dabbling in other formats, including comics; it’s publishing its first along with comic creator Mark Millar and his publishing imprint Millarworld, which it acquired earlier this year. Clearly, Netflix wants to do more than just create original versions of traditional TV and movies to flesh out and differentiate its service – but this remains an adventure I’m not certain a significant number of adult audience members will want to embark upon.


A peer-to-peer payment app that works similarly to Venmo from startup Lydia in France now works with Apple Pay (a feature originally announced in July), making it possible to spend your balance from the app wherever MasterCard and Apple Pay are accepted.
It’s a neat use of Apple Pay to make it possible to do mobile payments without requiring that a user have a credit card – and it can work for users who have an existing physical Lydia MasterCard, which the startup launched last year to make it possible for users to quickly pay with their balance without having to wait for inbound funds to pass the SEPA transfer process.
Users of the app can either add their physical Lydia MasterCard the way you would any other credit card in the Apple Pay settings, but if you haven’t got a card you can also generate a virtual one via the Lydia app itself to provide you with a card number to use of verification during the setup process.
Apple also set live its Apple Pay Cash feature for users in the U.S., which allows users to transfer payments to each other instead of just transact with businesses and merchants. It’s not yet available in other countries, as of yet, but Lydia’s implementation of Apple Pay is an interesting alternative that takes peer-to-peer payments and makes them much more flexible in terms of broader mobile commerce use.


A day after Netflix announced that it will resume production on House of Cards without star Kevin Spacey, the streaming service has dropped another cast member from an original series amid sexual misconduct accusations. A spokesperson for the streaming service confirmed today that Danny Masterson has been dropped from its comedy series, The Ranch, after four women have accused the actor of rape.
“As a result of ongoing discussions, Netflix and the producers have written Danny Masterson out of ‘The Ranch,’” a spokesperson for the company told Variety, “Yesterday was his last day on the show, and production will resume in early 2018 without him.”
The series, which also stars Debra Winger, Sam Elliott and Ashton Kutcher as the other members of a dysfunctional Colorado family, is set to return later this month. Additional episodes will appear in 2018, most likely without Masterson. Whether or not the actor will retain executive producer credit on the series has yet to be addressed by the service. 
For his part, Masterson has denied the allegations, which date back to the early ’00s. The actor, who also co-starred with Kutcher on That 70s Show, provided a statement to The Huffington Post via a lawyer, following the release of this morning’s news. 
“I am obviously very disappointed in Netflix’s decision to write my character off of The Ranch,” the statement reads. “From day one, I have denied the outrageous allegations against me. I have never been charged with a crime, let alone convicted of one.” 
The actor went on to offer vague reference to mounting reports of sexual misconduct that have echoed across the entertainment and other industries, telling the site he looked forward “to clearing my name once and for all.” Masterson is currently under investigation by the Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office. 

Featured Image: John Shearer/Getty Images


A lack of apps wasn’t my biggest issue with the Fitbit Ionic — but it was up there. The inclusion of a third-party app store was one of the ways the company was looking to set the device apart from the rest of its products, and aside from a couple of high profile partners, there really wasn’t much worth mentioning. 
Things are looking a bit better as of this morning. The company noted in a blog post that 60 apps and 100 watch faces have been added or are coming soon to the Ionic ecosystem. They’re not all really notable, but there are enough big names on the list to warrant a second look at Fitbit’s first true smartwatch. 
Some biggies include: The New York Times, Yelp, Uber, Lyft, Nest and United Airlines. Deezer’s also getting in on the action next year, becoming the second notable music service after Pandora to buy in to the Ionic ecosystem. The streaming service is hoping to pick up some new devotees by bringing offline streaming to the watch. In terms of name recognition, it’s a notable step down from a Spotify, but when it comes to taking music and leaving the phone behind, it’s a start at least. 
Some of the new apps arrive at the height of the holiday gift buying season, so perhaps they’ll make the Ionic a more tempting, Android compatible alternative to the Apple Watch. It’s a bummer, of course, that the product didn’t launch with this full an app selection, but if nothing else, it shows that Fitbit’s committed to building the thing up as quickly as possible.
After all, when we spoke with CEO James Park during at the device’s launch, he told us that the company’s purchase of Pebble was essentially a software acquisition. Fitbit knew it would be launching an app ecosystem from scratch, and Pebble’s team had the development tools to make porting an app to its new smartwatch OS a much easier task. Developing for yet another new app store is a pain, but at least Fitbit’s making the job a little simpler. 
Of course, the Ionic still has its share of issues. I’m not really a fan of the hardware design, which, among other things, isn’t nearly flexible enough to fit on smaller wrists, knocking out a big potential user base. But as multiple acquisitions have shown, the company’s all-in here, and perhaps the next generation device will address those issues as the app selection continues to grow and users shift their focus toward smart devices.


Instagram is copying Snapchat’s Memories feature and going a step further, letting you create a permanent home to show off formerly ephemeral content. Rolling out globally today on iOS and Android, Instagram Stories will now automatically Archive your Stories to a private part of your profile when they disappear 24 hours after being posted.
You’ll then be able to create Stories Highlights, which are named collections of your past Stories that show up in a new horizontal bar across the top of your profile. You could make Highlights of a specific vacation, all your selfies, or the cutest dogs you’ve seen, while brands will surely use it to highlight different product lines and ad campaigns.
“As more and more people adopt Stories, we realized that the profile has become less and less representative of you and your life” an Instagram spokesperson tells me. “And yet the profile is one of the top destinations on Instagram – it’s a powerful space for self-expression and feeling closer to others. But up until now there was no way to keep your favorite stories or add them to your profile – we wanted to fix that.”
There are three important value-adds to these features
Save Your Work – Archive and Highlights could make investing time in creating Stories feel less wasteful. It might have seemed silly going through the work of shooting Stories and jazzing them up with captions and stickers if they’d disappear the next day. This could make Stories appeal to older demographics whose friends might not be so addicted to Instagram that they open to watch Stories every single day. Highlights will surely be well utilized by brands who pour resources into shooting Stories, and now can create product or campaign specific collections.
Preserve Your Storage – Now you won’t have to worry about expending your phone’s storage space by downloading your old Stories. Instead, Instagram will save them in the cloud, where you can privately view, publicly share, or re-download them later. For younger users on older phones with limited space, that could be a life saver.
Expressing Your Identity – Instagram has never before let you share without that content being visible on the homescreen to your followers. That meant it could feel like you were spamming friends if you wanted to share niche content, deterring content creation. Stories Highlights will let you exhibit the different angles of yourself. You could create a Highlight of just your cat, your food, your favorite art, or your professional life.
TechCrunch broke the news of Instagram launching an Archive feature for your permanent feed posts in December which was designed to let people temporarily or permanently hide their past feed posts in order to deter people from impulsively deleting content they later want back.
Instagram Stories Archive and Highlights one-up Snapchat Memories, which only lets your repost old clips to your current Story. There’s still no permanent content on your Snapchat profile. Rather than forcing ephemerality, Instagram is making it optional to appeal to a wider audience. It’s a similar choice to YouTube with its new Stories product Reels, which also don’t expire after 24 hours.
Archive so you never lose your Stories

Archive will be activated automatically for everyone soon, and you’ll get a notification when it opens to you with the option to turn it off. Stories clips are saved in the same quality you uploaded them at. You can find the Archive on your Profile and switch between the Stories Archive and Posts Archive. Archived posts appear in reverse chronological order with date stamps for clarity. You can’t download your entire Archive at once, but instead will have to download individual clips. Archived posts can be reshared to Highlights, Direct Messages, the feed, or downloaded and then pushed to your current Story.
Users were often already downloading their Stories before they expired, but often might forget, causing them to lose their content. Now they don’t have to think about it.
Highlight your quirks or your products

To create a Highlight, tap New on the left side of your profile, choose Stories from your archive, choose a cover image for the Highlight, and name it. That Highlight will appear as a Stories-style bubble atop the profile and play like one big Story when tapped by one of your followers. They’ll remain visible unless you delete them, and you can remove clips but not reorder them.
You can add up to 100 photos or videos to a Story Highlight, and there’s no limit to how many Highlights you can create. Similarly, if you add more than 100 clips to your current Story, the first one will be removed and added to your Archive. And if you don’t want any trace of your old Stories available privately to you, you can opt out and turn off Stories Archive.
Together, these features could further encourage Instagram Stories’ 300 million users to post more about a wider variety of content, knowing it doesn’t have to disappear.


More than $3 billion has been raised through so-called initial coin offerings so far in 2017. Yet while numerous of these have already proven to be good old-fashioned scams, regulators in Washington have remained relatively quiet aside from warning issuers that at least some coins sold in ICOs could be considered securities; publishing a statement saying celebrity endorsements of ICOs may be unlawful without appropriate disclosures around compensation; and bringing two cases against fraudulent coin offerings.
That wait-and-see stance looks to evolve into much more action in 2018, suggest those who’ve either spoken with the Securities and Exchange Commission or otherwise have a vested interest in its rulings. (The SEC isn’t commenting publicly on its specific plans.)
Just Friday, a new division of the agency that’s focused on ICOs filed charges against an outfit called PlexCoin that reportedly raised $15 million from thousands of investors by promising a 1,354 percent return in 29 days or less. The person spearheading the effort — Dominic Lacroix — is a serial violator of SEC laws, says the agency, which describes him in its filing as a “recidivist securities law violator in Canada,” so this one might have been easy pickings.
Still, Ethereum co-founder Joe Lubin told us onstage last month that he is among other blockchain experts who has spoken to the SEC, and he described the staffers with whom he has talked as  “very interested people who are trying to understand the context that’s evolving around them . . . They are certainly in information-gathering mode.”
I fought the law and the law won
Without question, the SEC isn’t blind to the ICO fever that’s sweeping the globe and has already prompted regulators in China and South Korea to ban them outright — and regulators in Switzerland and Singapore and Japan to meanwhile welcome them with open arms.
Former Wall Street attorney turned SEC Chairman Jay Clayton said at a recent meeting at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that the agency is planning to pursue offerings that violate securities laws, telling those gathered that, “Where we see fraud and where we see people engaging in offerings that are not registered, we are going to pursue them because these types of things have a destabilizing effect on the market.”
It’s a stronger statement than Clayton offered in September, when, speaking at an event in Washington, he said it “would shock me if you don’t see pump-and-dump schemes in the initial coin offering space . . .This is an area where I’m concerned about what’s going to happen to retail investors.”
In these coin offerings, investors typically pay using bitcoin and other virtual currencies. In the PlexCoin case, Lacroix was accepting credit card payments via PayPal, Stripe and Shopify, but he raised the bulk of the $15 million via ethereum, Litecoin and other cryptocurrencies, which can be harder to trace and recover because they’re sent outside the traditional financial system.
In addition to past violations, Lacroix was an easy target for the SEC owing to the sensational language PlexCoin used to entice potential investors, telling them to obtain its “tokenized currency” so they could “Take control of [THEIR] money!”
Equally suspect: telling investors that the identity of PlexCorps’ executives had to be kept hidden to avoid poaching by competitors and for privacy concerns.
Words do concern those who’d like to see regulators work with — and not shut down — ICOs more broadly. Lubin, who today runs ConsenSys, a studio building decentralized applications, told us onstage, for example, that his “legal team and all of our legal advisors are not comfortable with the term ICO,” because it sounds a lot like IPO. “There are different types of token launches. Some of them can be tokenized securities; some of them can utility or protocol tokens. If you’re issuing a utility token based on your work, the SEC would not deem that a security.”
It isn’t just the acronym that concerns him. Lubin argued that if issuers use language “that the SEC believes will cause you to lead token buyers into a purchase with the expectation that they’ll make some profits off the agency of others, that can [also] be deemed a security.”
I needed money ’cause I had none
But former SEC commission Joe Grundfest clearly thinks it a joke to suggest that investors are buying tokens of any kind without assuming they’ll profit from them. Speaking with Dealbook early last week, Grundfest, who today teaches on law and business at Stanford, said it was clear that those buying tokens are buying them with the hope that their value will rise, full stop.
He added that few of the projects raising money through ICOs truly have a need for the structure. In fact, he called ICOs the “most pervasive, open and notorious violation of federal securities laws since the Code of Hammurabi.
“It’s more than the extent of the violation,” he’d said. “It’s the almost comedic quality of the violation.”
Perhaps it’s because Grundfest so publicly wondered about the dearth of SEC enforcements that the SEC took action this past Friday against PlexCoin. Either way, don’t be surprised if a kind of sweep is coming.
Speaking on that same panel with us last month, venture capitalist Rebecca Lynn of Canvas Ventures compared the current ICO environment to the earliest days of online lending, before regulators descended onto the scene.
Lynn — who led an early investment in the online lender LendingClub while with her previous employer, Morgenthaler Ventures — remembers well the language that the company and competitors like Prosper used and the boldness with which they launched into the world, intent on cutting out the middleman.
“It wasn’t that different,” she said. “Disintermediation of the banks. Frictionless. Peer-to-peer. Not regulated. And guess what? They became regulated, and Prosper got hit with a huge class-action lawsuit, because people lost a lot of money early [on].” (LendingClub has more recently been hit with a class-action shareholder lawsuit, too.)
“I don’t see this as different,” she said. “ICOs will absolutely be regulated,” she said. “We’ve seen this game before.”
Shriram Bhashyam, co-founder of the secondary marketplace EquityZen (and a former securities attorney) agrees, saying the “steady drumbeat” of small actions we’ve seen from the SEC is likely just the beginning, and that while the SEC has been picking off the “outright fraud and scams” and “low-hanging fruit,” what the agency is likely looking for right now are the “stronger cases that will send a message” that it’s establishing rules of the road.
At this point, Grundfest would hardly be alone in welcoming them. Even Bradley Tusk, a political strategist known for helping companies navigate the regulatory waters, says a kind of regulatory road map is overdue at this point. “I’m usually the guy fighting these things, but with ICOs, it’s such a confusing landscape and no one knows what the rules are, and so much of the efficacy of the system is based on trust.”
It’s “hard to know what the f_ck is going on over there” at the SEC, says Tusk. “But not only would rules provide consumers some basic protections, he says, but they might also ensure that the “bad actors and fly-by-nights” don’t blow it for everyone else.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin


Nissan is the latest automaker to make its autonomous vehicle testing intentions clear – it’ll begin a pilot of self-driving Nissan Leaf electric vehicles that can be hailed using a smartphone app much like an Uber or a Lyft, starting in March on Japanese roads.
This isn’t something Nissan is doing alone – it’s working with Japanese software maker DeNA to create the autonomous ride-hailing service. It’s also hoping to put a commercial fleet of Leafs into service by the early 2020s, per the Wall Street Journal.
That’s a more general timeframe than some of its competitors have offered up – and further out, too. GM and its subsidiary Cruise announced last week that they’d have a service ready to roll by 2019 based on their current progress, and Ford was among the earliest to set a deadline for its own service launch, pegging 2021 for an operating fleet.
Nissan will start with two Leaf vehicles modified with autonomous vehicle sensors and compute on roads, with staff actively monitoring pick up and drop-off locations, and an open application for participation in the test program available to the public.
One of the more interesting aspects of Nissan’s test is that users will be able to not only specify exactly where they want to go, but also use general written queries like “I want to eat pancakes” and have the car automatically choose a relevant destination, according to the WSJ. Building some degree of autonomous destination selection is a UX differentiator that could help Nissan set its service apart ahead of the launch of all of these competing services.


CoreOS announced Tectonic 1.8, its latest update of the popular Kubernetes container orchestration tool. It features a new open services catalog that enables DevOps personnel to plug in external services into Kubernetes with ease.
As Rob Szumski, Tectonic product manager at CoreOS pointed out in a company blog post announcing the new version, public clouds offer lots of benefits around ease of use, but they can end up locking you in, in some cases to a proprietary set of tools.
This is precisely what the new Open Cloud Services catalog is designed to resolve. Instead of using those proprietary tools, you get more open choices and that should make it easier to move between clouds or a hybrid environment.
“New for Tectonic 1.8, CoreOS Open Cloud Services offer the same near-effortless operations customers have come to expect from managed cloud offerings with a difference. Unlike proprietary cloud services, Open Cloud Services are first-class, fully automated Kubernetes resources running on the CoreOS Tectonic platform,” Szumski wrote in the blog post.

CoreOS is aiming to keep the whole process as open and portable as possible, so that customers can choose where and how they want to deploy their applications. What’s more, the Open Cloud Catalog is built right into the Tectonic console, making it simple to enable the external services (or disable them as you choose).
Among the earliest additions to the Open Cloud Services offering are etcd, Prometheus and Vault.
The Open Cloud Service Catalog was only part of the Tectonic 1.8 release, which puts it in line with the open source version released at the end of September. As CoreOS points out, this is a pure upstream version of Kubernetes, meaning it’s not a fork, something the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, the organization that manages the Kubernetes open source project has been striving for from members.
It will also automatically update the Docker container engine, which developers use to create the containers that make up an application. Operations uses Kubernetes to manage and deploy the containers. That means, it’s taking care of both sides of the container DevOps equation for you.
The latest version will be shipping towards the end of the year and the company says it will be a smooth and automatic update from Tectonic 1.7 for existing CoreOS customers.

Featured Image: Stan Olszewski/SOSKIphoto/Flickr UNDER A Copyright LICENSE


So how far out are flying cars that you can actually hail via an app, get inside and be whisked off to your destination? Germany based Volocopter reckons a commercial service powered by its electric vertical-take-off-and-landing aircraft could be up and running before 2020.
“We think that in two or three years we’ll have the first commercial applications somewhere in the world with our service,” said co-founder and CIO Alex Zosel, who was speaking on stage here at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin.
“This is not so far away,” he added.



Zosel suggested the first service is likely to be a pretty targeted one though, that likely aims to tackle a particular mobility issue — such as a traffic blackspot.
“I believe strongly the first commercial application will be a point to point solution over a bottleneck somewhere where you have a lot of congestions or you have a river or something else. And then you have some aircrafts — like 10 or 20 aircrafts — flying point to point and shuttling people… This will come really fast.”
Also speaking on the panel was Yann de Vries of Atomico, which invests in the rival Lilium VTOL electric aircraft. He painted a picture of flying cars revolutionizing mobility by collapsing city to city distance via a network of speedy hops.
“Within 15 minutes, with Lilium, you can be within a 70km radius. So think about all the possibilities these offer,” he suggested, adding: “You can never do this with a car, even with autonomous vehicles, with all the traffic on the roads.”
“Here you can build a high speed, mesh network of 300km per hour links to any point that’s required, right. The use case is you land from London into JFK and then you can be in Manhattan… less than 10mins later.”
de Vries couldn’t put a timeline on his portfolio company getting its flying taxis up in the air commercially but also suggested it’s going to be sooner rather than later. Or, as he put it: “several years, not decades”.
What about landing spots? He suggested that, initially at least, flying car companies will be able to leverage existing helipads — claiming that in the US 90 per cent of the population is within 15 minutes of an existing pad.
Though he added that the big vision for the tech remains for it to power a “mass transportation market”.


Swedish lock maker Assa Abloy completed its acquisition of August Home this week. The deal, first announced back in October, has the U.S.-based smart lock startup rolling into the world’s largest lock maker, though the company says it will continue to operate as a somewhat independent entity under the much bigger brand. 
“One of the things I liked most about Assa Abloy as a potential buy is they operate like a Berkshire Hathaway as a big holding company,” August CEO Jason Johnson told TechCrunch ahead of the announcement. “When they buy a company, they leave it independent as a standalone unit. That means that our team can continue running August and really nothing changes. We just went from having 40 investors to having one investor.”
The deal, which has passed the requisite regulatory scrutiny, will give August a chance to expand beyond North American shores. The company has had a fair bit of growth here in the States, including a recent $25 million Series C and a partnership with Walmart, but scaling a hardware product internationally is a pretty universally tricky pursuit. Those issues are only compounded by the different lock configurations found in different parts of the world. 
At the very least, Assa Abloy has some very deep pockets, and appears keen on bringing August’s smart home connectivity to a broader worldwide audience. Johnson told us that he’s unable to disclose the specifics of the deal, as “Assa Abloy has a long history of not disclosing that,” but noted the company’s long history of acquisitions and added that, “our shareholders are extremely pleased with the outcome.”
Johnson will remain as August’s CEO for the time being, and he adds the company’s new owners will grow the team, as it looks to new markets. August will also be working directly with Assa Abloy brands, most notably Yale, in order to incorporate its smarts into other products. The partnership should also go a ways toward improving August’s lock hardware, which has received mixed reviews since launching three years ago.


Consumer spending on all mobile app stores will surpass $110 billion in 2018, according to a new report from App Annie, out today, which forecasts the state of the app ecosystem for next year. The $110 billion figure represents a 30 percent increase from the year prior, the firm also said, adding that the majority of the overall spend will come from games, as before.
However, the introduction of in-app subscriptions – a newer monetization model for apps – is starting to have an impact on non-games’ share of consumer spend. Though games still dominate in terms of overall dollars spent, the share for non-game apps will increase in 2018 as its growth is now outpacing that for games, App Annie said.
In addition, the report called out China, India and Brazil as top countries to watch in 2018. China’s growth rate, in particular, will “significantly outpace” the rate for the rest of the world. That’s even more notable given that China is already the top market today for iOS App Store consumer spend.
India and Brazil, meanwhile, will see time spent on Android phones increasing in 2018, continuing the trend from this year which saw 50 percent and 30 percent growth, respectively, over 2017. India also has seen a big jump in Google Play downloads, coinciding with the launch of Reliance Jio’s network in September 2016. And the emerging market of Brazil still has room for further growth since – like India – it has a large population who does not yet own a smartphone.
Other changes impacting the app ecosystem include the app store revamps from both Apple and Google Play this year. In 2018, these efforts to improve app discovery will continue to gain traction, prompting increased downloads of entertainment apps and others meant for users’ leisure time. This increased discovery will also lead to a rise in in-app purchases, App Annie said. Meanwhile, needs-based apps and utilities will still be found more often by app store searches and word-of-mouth recommendations.
The report also called out a particular category of apps – AR apps – as seeing increased adoption in 2018.
For example, Niantic’s upcoming Harry Potter: Wizards Unite will generate excitement for AR gaming, while apps that layer additional context over the real world, including Google Translate and MLB.com At Bat, will see widespread traction with users.

Another category of apps that has driven a large amount of consumer spend this year is streaming video apps. Year-to-date through October 2017, streaming video apps have led to an increase of over 85 percent in consumer spend on iOS, and over 70 percent on Google Play. This space is becoming increasingly fragmented – in the U.S., for example,  the share of those had four or more of the top video streaming apps installed on their iPhones increased year-over-year to more than 30 percent in October.

The report delved into other trends for the following year, including mobile’s growing role as a part of e-commerce transactions, including mobile food ordering, and more.
It also mentioned Amazon Alexa’s rise, in terms of its mobile app’s presence on the app stores. For example, App Annie said that downloads of the Amazon Alexa companion app trended upwards after the October 2016 release of the sub-$50 Echo Dot, with other big spikes around the holidays and Amazon Prime Day.

The report says these same trends will continue next year, with spikes around sales holidays and other device deals, like the recently release of the $49 Google Home Mini.
The full report is available from App Annie’s website.


Playdots, the company that lets gamers play with Dots, will soon have a new CEO as co-founder and current COO Patrick Moberg takes over for co-founder Paul Murphy. Murphy lead the company as CEO since the founding in 2013 and will stay with Playdots as a board member.
Murphy and Moberg co-founded Playdots in 2013 and in 2015 led the company to spin out of betaworks on the back of $10 million in funding from Greycroft Partners, Tencent and others.
Murphy is seemingly leaving the company in a good state of affairs, explaining in a post on Medium that the company is profitable, scaling and committed to releasing new games. He told TechCrunch that his plan to step down has been in the works for several months and the company has already been operating under the new leadership to ensure a smooth transition.
Challenges lie ahead for Playdots and its new CEO in Patrick Moberg but he’s been with the company since the start. Murphy tells TechCrunch that the two have always worked side-by-side, making decisions together. Initially Moberg focused on the game while Murphy handled the business but as the company grew, Moberg spent more time with the company strategy.
Moberg points to balancing the company’s creativity with its business as the biggest challenge ahead.
“Creativity produces risk and business aims to reduce risk,” Moberg said. ” To succeed in the short term, that dichotomy needs to be understood and calibrated against by the ‘decision makers’, but the long term goal is to lay the groundwork for a methodology where that process is a shared responsibility of every person at Dots. Communicating and maintaining such an organization is a really difficult challenge.”
As for outgoing CEO Paul Murphy, he plans on staying close to the gaming industry while spending more time investing in Europe. And staying close to the gaming industry is probably for the best. He seems to be walking away with deep insights saying the main thing he learned while at Playdots was “highly differentiated products are exponentially easier and less expensive to market” which is something most mobile game makers would be wise to remember — and there’s now an ex-CEO who believes that and is potentially on the market.


A year after launching, the IBM Watson-sponsored AI XPrize has been whittled down to 59 teams. That number’s down from 147 in May, which, in turn, was pulled from a list of 10,000 signups. The goal was to halve the number this time out, but a handful of teams have fallen out of the running of their own volition. 
The four-year competition is the first “open” one from the XPrize Foundation, meaning there’s really no specific end-point here. Instead, each team was asked to solve a problem using artificial intelligence, be it Watson or another system. In fact, only 20 percent of the teams are using or considering using IBM’s AI for the their project, according to the foundation. 
All of that’s made it a fairly tough competition to judge, along with the fact that the subject matter runs the gamut of, well, just about everything, including Health and Wellness, Learning and Human Potential, Civil Society, Space and New Frontiers, Shelter and Infrastructure Energy and Resources. 
Further complicating things is the fact that the four-year competition also includes potential wild card candidates, who are able to enter the competition late. That’s a first for XPrize and a result of the organization’s attempts to inject some new blood into a rapidly changing AI landscape. 
“AI is moving at such a fast pace, and a number of breakthroughs will develop to allow teams to address problems that may not have been addressed the year before,” competition leader Amir Banifatemi told TechCrunch. “We want the competition to remain fresh and agile, in terms of teams to still participate if they think they can still solve the problem.”
Even so, the team of 30 judges have managed to winnow the team number down to 59, spread out over 14 countries. The teams are judged on their technology, human and machine collaboration and the perceived impact of the problem they’ve chosen to solve. 
The list also includes a “top 10,” who will be showcasing their projects at the Neural Information Processing Systems conference in Long Beach this week. Two teams will be chosen from that top 10 and awarded a prize stipend — though beyond that, they don’t really get much advantage over the other teams still in the competition. 
The top 10 includes eight teams from North America and two from Europe. Those projects range from wearables designed to tackle the opioid crisis to virtual tutors. The full prize purse, provided by IBM (which plays no role in the actual judging), is $5 million. The grand prize winner gets $3 million, second prize gets $1 million and third prize gets $500,000, with additional $500,000 milestone prizes being awarded in 2018 and 2019.


Smartphones have made flipping through photo albums a relic of the past.
It’s easy to peruse and share a digital photo archive, but some people miss looking through photos while sitting next to family and friends.
At least that’s what motivated serial entrepreneur Alan Chan to create Joy, a smart photo album.
He says that he realized “family photo-sharing is broken” after his daughter was born two years ago. “Printing photo books is very laborious and time-consuming.”
So Chan has raised $7 million to build a better photo product. The round is led by Obvious Ventures and consumer investor David Heller. This brings the total funding to $9.5 million.
Chan believes Joy is better than the digital photo frames or the viewing experience of an Apple TV.  It has a 13.3″ full HD touchscreen and can sync photos from a range of services, including Google, Facebook and Instagram.
It’s not just photos, but also supports video. Users can add voice notes to correspond with the experiences.
But it’s not cheap. The newly launched device will set you back $499. Whether people will pay top dollar for a product whose mission is fairly narrow, compared with other, similarly priced options available to them, is another sizable question.

Chan claims it’s worth the money because it “creates the ultimate story-telling device with your family.” He says that other products only show you one photo at a time.
Heller says that he invested because it “solves a major consumer pain point and the addressable market is massive.”
Joy, founded roughly a year ago in San Francisco, plans to eventually build additional products at varied price points.


Have you ever bought something only to see it go on sale the next day?
It may seem like bad luck, but you’re often still entitled to get that discount. Some retailers and credit card companies will even guarantee price drop refunds for up to 90 days.
But it can be a hassle to keep track of price changes and to follow through and get your money back. A handful of sites have been springing up to handle this on your behalf. One of those is Earny. 
Earny’s app syncs with your inbox and identifies receipts. It then monitors prices at Amazon, Wal-Mart, Target, Best Buy and others. Earny will contact the retailers to ensure that the money goes back on your credit card, or arrives via a check. Earny takes a 25% commission for its efforts.
The Santa Monica, California-based startup is now raising $9 million to accelerate its growth. The latest round was led by Mayfield with participation from Comcast Ventures and Science Inc. Earny previously raised about $2.5 million. 
The startup is also announcing that it will be automating credit card price protection claims for all Visa cards. Earny says it tracks about 50 million items from the top 35 retailers.
The business says its users end up getting about 5% of their money back, on average. The most common refunds are for electronics and clothes.
When asked if the retailers would be frustrated by Earny’s model, CEO Oded Vakrat insists that it’s just the opposite.
Vakrat claims Earny “reduces item return rates because customers are more satisfied from their purchase.” He believes they are “three times more likely to purchase again from the same retailer.”
Mayfield partner Rishi Garg says he invested in Earny because he was “impressed with their unique take on customer advocacy and the comfort they bring to shoppers that their purchases are protected.”
Earny plans to use the funding to build out its product and expand into travel. Starting next year, for example, users will be able to get discounted rates at hotels.

Featured Image: megaflopp/Shutterstock


Nvidia just rolled out a very interesting selection of software for its over-the-top Shield TV box in China – Wii games, running in 1080p resolution, including New Super Mario Bros. Wii, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and PUNCH-OUT!!. It’s only in China, where Shield TV is launching for the first time, but it’s an official tie-up between Nvidia and Nintendo, which could offer some hope, however narrow, that this could make its way to other Shield hardware around the world.
Remastered Wii games on the Shield TV retail for around $10 per title, and other games including Metroid Prime and Super Mario Galaxy will eventually make their way to the platform, too.
Nvidia and Nintendo have partnered before now, of course – the graphics hardware maker created the processor that powers the Nintendo Switch portable hybrid game console. China has also been a tricky market for Nintendo to operate within thanks to a ban on video game consoles first instituted in 2000 and lifted only in 2015.
Lest you hope that Shield TV playing Wii games could be a sign that ports arrive on Android more broadly, take note that the Shield TV Nvidia is selling in China is “completely localized,” with its own store and local content and Baidu’s DuerOS and iQIYI media service, so there’s a lot of this that is going to be totally unique to China.


Pi Charging, the company that won at TechCrunch Disrupt SF with its wireless charging tech, has closed a series A round of $11.4 million dollars. They disclosed the news for the first time while updating the audience at Disrupt Berlin on their progress since winning in SF.
For those who might’ve missed it: Pi Charging is building a device (the namesake Pi Charger) that lives on your tabletop and can wirelessly charge multiple devices placed around it at once. It’s sort of like a wireless charging pad… minus the need to place anything on a pad. As long as your device is compatible and within about a foot in any direction of the Pi Charger, it should be charging.
Here’s their demo from Disrupt:



 
I spoke to Pi co-founder John Macdonald about the round, who told me a bit more: the round was led by Foundry Group, with Foundry’s Ryan McIntyre joining Pi’s board. It also brings new investor Silicon Valley Bank into the mix, with existing investors Uncork, Nextview Ventures, ENIAC, and E14 Fund returning for another round. Pi Charging had previously raised around $3M.
John also tells me that they’re still on track with the same goals they announced back in September: they’re aiming to ship the Pi Charger sometime in 2018, at a price point under $200.
So why raise? Macdonald tells me the company is in the middle of a significant expansion, and that they expect to double the size of the team (from 8 people, currently) within about eight months.
Meanwhile, he also noted that they’ve begun work on a second product; he declined to say much about it, but confirmed that it’s still in the wireless power space and built around the same wireless tech they came up with for the Pi Charger.


Intuit, the company behind products like QuickBooks and TurboTax, today announced that it has acquired TSheets, a time-tracking service and employee scheduling app with over 35,000 customers. The $340 million acquisition price consists of both cash and other considerations and Intuit expects the acquisition to close in the second half of 2018.
TSheets launched back in 2006 and now has offices in both Eagle, Idaho and Sydney, Australia. The company has raised a total of about $15 million thanks to a Series A round led by Summit Partners.
There’s an obvious overlap between the markets for QuickBooks and TSheets, both of which mostly target small to medium businesses. Indeed, Intuit tells us that the companies already share 12,000 customers. Clearly this isn’t a play to acquire new customers, but to build out the QuickBooks ecosystem and it’s worth noting that TSheets already offers an integration with QuickBooks.
“With TSheets as part of Intuit, we have a tremendous opportunity to provide millions of small businesses and self-employed a smarter, simplified way to quickly and accurately track their time, send invoices, run payroll, and understand profitability by project,” said Alex Chriss, Senior Vice President and chief product and platform officer for Intuit’s Small Business and Self-Employed Group. “This acquisition will unlock critical upstream data that will allow us to create friction-less experiences that remove work, make it easier to get paid, and provide valuable insights into the health of our users’ businesses.”
In talking to Intuit over the last few months, this idea of removing friction is very much at the heart of the company’s current product plans, especially with regard to QuickBooks.
After the acquisition closes, Intuit plans to re-brand TSheets as Time Capture and turn TSheet’s Eagle, Idaho office into an Intuit office.

Featured Image: Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images


Revolut is merging traditional banking and cryptocurrency to let you buy, sell, trade, and hold Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ether alongside 25 world fiat currencies. The $90 million-funded mobile banking startup is trying to erase the divide between old and new money.
Revolut‘s CEO Nikolay Storonsky announced on stage today at TechCrunch’s Disrupt Berlin conference that cryptocurrency trading will open to all Revolut users on Thursday. If you’re spending money through Revolut’s debit card and run out of fiat currency, it will automatically convert the necessary amount of cryptocurrency to fiat to fund your transaction.
“Despite being one of the hottest trends in the world right now, getting exposure to cryptocurrency has notoriously been time-consuming and expensive,” Storonsky writes.



The move comes as cryptocurrency becomes increasingly legitimate in the eyes of the world, following bitcoin blowing past $10,000 per coin, and traditional futures exchanges preparing to allow bitcoin futures trading this month.
While cryptocurrency could be seen as a niche distraction from Revolut’s core business, but Storonsky feels that crypto is going mainstream and will quickly become a critical part of all banking. He cited that during Revolut’s week-long crypto beta test, 10,000 customers traded $1 million in cryptocurrency.
Revolut CEO Nikolay Storonsky
When the feature opens up to all users Thursday, Revolut promises to offer the most competitive rates on crypto transactions, charging only a flat, up-front 1.5 percent without other hidden fees that can add up to 5 percent to 9 percent on other platforms. Customers will be able to buy through all of Revolut’s base currencies so there’s no need for extra foreign exchange fees if you want to buy in Swiss Francs, for example.

In just two years, Revolut has signed up over 1,000,000 users in Europe and processed 42 million transactions, and claims to have saved customers $160 million in foreign exchange fees. It’s growing fast, doubling the rate of new customer sign-ups versus three months ago. While there are plenty of players in the modernized debit card market like N26 and Monzo, Revolut also lets you send up to €5,000 per month in 16 currencies without any fee.
As these startups jockey for position, they’re all searching for differentiators. Embracing cryptocurrency could lure fintech early adopters to Revolut.

Featured Image: Antana/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE


Coronet, a startup that launched as part of the TechCrunch Disrupt Battlefield competition in New York City in 2015, announced the release of the latest version of its cloud security product aimed at SMBs today. The new system introduces a layer of autonomy which lets IT or security personnel define a set of rules and the system takes care of the rest without any additional intervention.
The Coronet SecureCloud has been designed to be as simple as possible, Coronet co-founder and CISO Dror Liwer told TechCrunch. This means that the system makes sure any device an employee is using is secure, while validating the user’s identity, making sure the network is safe and preventing anything malicious on a device from spreading to a cloud service.
It defaults to the new fully autonomous platform, meaning you simply set it and forget it. Whereas many security systems funnel issues to a security team, this one is designed to detect and mitigate the threat in real time, Liwer explained. If there is an issue, the employee won’t be able to log on unless they fix the problem, so a device infected with malware wouldn’t be allowed on the company Dropbox account until the problem is resolved. This would prevent the malware from spreading from the device to files stored in the cloud.
As an example, just last week Apple had a huge security vulnerability in OSX High Sierra that would have allowed anyone to log onto an unpatched machine. Apple released a patch within 24 hours and it was imperative that people get the update. Using Coronet SecureCloud, the system would recognize the patch is available and not let the user log on to their system without updating, thereby forcing them into compliance.
It wouldn’t require an email or any communication or action on behalf of a small or medium business IT department. This would all happen automatically and without a lot of pain to the end user. All they would know is they need to update the OS to continue.
Of course, there is some work up front to define the rules, but there are pre-configured rules for popular cloud software packages like Office 365, Box, Slack and Dropbox. Companies can adapt those rules for their company or leave the defaults.
Security is growing ever more complex and tracking all of the latest vulnerabilities and patches takes trained people. It’s hard enough for an enterprise with deep resources to find them and keep all employees up to date. It’s even more difficult for small- to medium-sized businesses (SMBs).
The Coronet SecureCloud autonomous security is available starting today.

Featured Image: vertigo3d/Getty Images


Ijad Madisch, co-founder and CEO of ResearchGate – the so-called Facebook for scientists – shot down an accusation about a questionable way it may have acquired users in the past. The question was raised by a panel moderator, TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher, at the Disrupt Berlin 2017 conference this morning.
According to Butcher’s multiple sources, ResearchGate had scraped rival Academia.edu in order to spam their users in an effort to get them to sign up to ResearchGate.
Madisch, who didn’t flinch at the accusation that he paid an agency to scrape and spam users, denied this was the case.
“No, for sure not,” he said, in response to the question.
When Butcher pressed on why his sources would have told him such a thing, Madisch pointed a finger not too subtly right back at his competitors.
“We have 100 million visitors a month now,” he said. “I would do maybe the same if I would be number two.”
Plus, he added, “you have to find stories that make me nervous on stage.”
Butcher says he trusts his sources on this matter, but they’ve declined to go on record. He still felt he needed to ask the CEO directly, however.
Berlin-based ResearchGate this year raised $52.6 million in Series D funding, bringing its total raise to date to over $100 million, but is not yet profitable despite saying back in 2014 that it would be profitable with job ads by the end of the year. But a financial statement from 2015 showed that the site went from losing  €5.4m in 2014 to losing €6.2m in 2015, Butcher noted.
The CEO said the site was now on “break even” track, though when that would be the case, he couldn’t pinpoint.
He spoke of plans for its advertising business, which would allow vendors – like say, a microscope manufacturer – to advertise their products next to scholarly articles where scientists had mentioned they used the product in question.
In addition, to the profitability questions and other allegations, the network for scholarly articles is facing a number of challenges in a competitive market where it’s up against an open source, scholarly hub set up by academics – something that Madisch also seemed unfazed by, when asked.
“I think we’re on different horizons,” he said. “We have grown quite a lot over the last years. We have activity on our network that no one has produced in an academic environment.” Plus, he said, he didn’t necessarily think that open source on its own is a better solution.
More recently, ResearchGate has been accused of infringing copyright on a massive scale with publishers seeking removal of millions of papers on its site, via a lawsuit.
The founder claimed that it’s not the only site faces these sort of problems. Academia.edu had takedown notices, too, he said, shrugging off the issue.


Kespry, the industrial drone startup, announced a fresh infusion of cash today in the form of a $33M Series C. It brings the total raised to over $61M across the three rounds.
While today’s investment was led by G2VP, it also included some strategic investors with Shell Technology Ventures, Cisco Ventures and ABB Ventures joining in. Shell comes on board as Kespry tries to expand its market into oil and gas.
Daniel Jeavons, general manager for advanced analytics at Shell sees solutions like drones as part of Shell’s efforts to identify and invest in advanced digital technology. “The use of industrial drones powered by AI and machine learning is a game changer for the energy sector. It will make industrial work more efficient and safer, while empowering workers with powerful new digital tools and important, future-focused skills,” Jeavons said in a statement.
The company is focusing strictly on industrial use cases like mining and aggregates, insurance claims, construction and more recently, oil and gas. It has 150 mining customers and 200 overall, according to company CEO George Mathew, who came on board at the beginning of this year after a stint as Alteryx COO and president.
Mathew sees the industry at a pivotal moment where companies are beginning to see the value of industrial drones, which is leading to a mainstream level of adoption in these sectors. That’s because it tends to be safer, more efficient and more accurate to use drones than traditional methods.
Mathew is careful to distinguish his company’s approach to that of hobbyists or even prosumers who might use drone flyovers in real estate or wedding photography scenarios. While he sees these as perfectly valid drone use cases, it’s really not an area of the market that interests Kespry.
He says one of the big differentiators is his company’s use of data and machine learning. So for instance, they layer on machine learning algorithms to understand what roof damage looks like after wind, rain or hail damage. They then use that data to determine if a roof needs replacing or if it can be fixed, all automatically without having a claims adjuster climb on the roof in dangerous conditions.
The company currently has around 100 employees and Mathew expects that to double in the next year with the new money. He also is looking at more international expansion and developing more channel partners to help push their solution in their target markets.


In a world that requires increasing amounts of compute power to handle the resource-intensive demands of workloads like artificial intelligence and machine learning, IBM enters the fray with its latest generation Power chip, the Power9.
The company intends to sell the chips to third-party manufacturers and to cloud vendors including Google. Meanwhile, it’s releasing a new computer powered by the Power9 chip, the AC922 and it intends to offer the chips in a service on the IBM cloud. “We generally take our technology to market as a complete solution,” Brad McCredie, IBM fellow and vice president of cognitive systems  explained.
The company has designed the new chip specifically to improve performance on common AI frameworks like Chainer, TensorFlow and Caffe, and claims an increase for workloads running on these frameworks by up to almost 4x.
If it works as described this should give data scientists building models and running them on a Power9-powered machine increased speed, which should allow them to run these jobs faster and complete model creation more quickly.
Patrick Moorhead, principal analyst at Moor Insights & Strategy believes IBM has really differentiated itself from the competition with this chip. “Power9 is a chip which has a new systems architecture that is optimized for accelerators used in machine learning. Intel makes Xeon CPUs and Nervana accelerators and NVIDIA makes Tesla accelerators. IBM’s Power9 is literally the Swiss Army knife of ML acceleration as it supports an astronomical amount of IO and bandwidth, 10X of anything that’s out there today,” Moorhead said.
Photo: IBM
If you’re thinking that Nvidia seems to have grabbed a good deal of the AI/machine learning workloads, it didn’t escape IBM’s notice either and they have been working closely with the GPU chip maker. In fact, McCredie says that IBM built a system bus that moves workloads between the two chip types much faster than competitive systems.
“Modern workloads are becoming accelerated and the Nvidia GPU is a common accelerator. We have seen this trend coming. We built a deep relationship with them and a partnership between the Power system and the GPU. We have a unique bus that runs between the processor and the GPU and has 10x peak bandwidth over competitive systems,” McCredie explained.
The new chips are going to power a supercomputer called Summit being built by Lawrence Livermore and Oakridge national laboratories. He says the supercomputer will be built on top of  thousands and thousands of the Power9 computers at a cost of $325 million, a nice little burst of business for the new chip right out of the gate.
Chirag Dekate, who is research director for HPC, machine learning and emerging compute technologies at Gartner says this release is a continuation of IBM’s aggressive approach to capture high-growth market segments like artificial intelligence. “By aligning their strategy across segments like AI (specifically machine learning and deep learning), it enables IBM to better compete in hyperscale datacenter and broader market datacenter initiatives. This has a potential to drive direct revenue impact for IBM and enable new larger scale datacenter deployments,” Dekate explained.
The Power9 chip is generally available starting today.

Featured Image: IBM


It’s no secret that the OpenStack Foundation has been looking to branch out beyond its eponymous cloud infrastructure project, which, until now, was always its sole focus. It’s also no surprise then that the Foundation today announced the launch of the Kata Containers project.
Kata Containers is a new open source project that aims to bring the best of containers (speed, flexibility, manageability etc.) with the best of virtual machines (especially security). It’s built on top of the work that Intel did with its Clear Containers technology and Hyper’s runV hypervisor-based runtime.
As OpenStack Foundation executive director Jonathan Bryce told me, his organization was looking to support additional projects that make it easier to run production workloads in the cloud. “At the OpenStack Foundation, we are really focussed on the user community we built and solving their needs — and that’s something that’s bigger than the core OpenStack services,” he said.
So what does the Kata Containers project actually look like? The basic idea here is that containers, for all of their advantages, have long had a few basic security issues, largely because its hard to keep containers fully isolated from each other when they are running together on a shared virtual machine. The Kata Containers project solves this by giving each container its own, very lightweight virtual machine and kernel, so that each container or container pod run in its own isolated environment and gets its own allocation of networking, I/O and memory, as well as access to hardware-enforced isolation thanks to the virtualization technologies that Intel now builds into its processors.
Kata Containers currently integrates with Kubernetes, Docker and OpenStack, it currently only runs on chips based on the X86 architecture and it only supports KVM as its hypervisor. The plan is to expand support to other architectures and hypervisors over time, though.
Until now, Intel and Hyper both separately worked on building similar solutions. Hyper’s COO James Kulina tells me that his company has been working with Intel for about a year now and that the two companies got to a point were they thought that it was time for a standardized solution. And there’s clearly a demand for this solution, given that the companies like Canonical, China Mobile, CoreOS, Dell/EMC, Google, Huawei, JD.com, Mirantis, Suse, Tencent and ZTE are already supporting it. Some of these, like Chinese e-commerce platform JD.com, already run Hyper’s runV in their data centers today.
Besides the actual technology here, it’s also interesting to see the OpenStack Foundation move beyond its core projects. The Foundation now describes itself as “the home of open infrastructure” and there can be no doubt that the Kata project fits this description nicely. It also shows that the Foundation is able to bring many of its existing backers on board for these new projects.
It’s worth stressing that Kata Containers is very much an independent project with its own technical governance and contributor base. The OpenStack Foundation will manage the project, similar to how the Linux Foundation provides support to groups like the CNCF of Cloud Foundry Foundation.
The Kata Containers code is now available on GitHub and like other OpenStack projects, the code is licensed under the Apache 2 license.

Featured Image: Getty Images


Over the last few years, and arguably punching way above its weight, Code First: Girls has been doing important work. The U.K. social enterprise, which originally spun out of company builder Entrepreneur First, has already taught more than 5,000 women to code, with the broader aim of helping to close the gender gap in the country’s tech industry and tackle the tech skills shortage in general.
Today the organisation is upping the stakes, kicking off a campaign to teach 20,000 young women in the U.K. and Ireland how to code for free by the end of 2020. To help achieve this, Code First: Girls is running a crowdfunding campaign, in addition to working with partners and backers from leading employers, including KKR and OVH, to train young women at the start of their careers.
Specifically, I’m told the programme will offer training support to employees from the “2020 campaign”-supporting partner companies, with the opportunity to train their young female staff and gift free coding courses on the partner’s behalf to other young women.
In addition to the training, Code First: Girls is building a community platform to support the course alumnae so that they cam learn from and support each other. And, perhaps smartly, through the platform, the campaigns’ “top tier” partners will get access to the eventual pool of 20,000 young women who have completed the coding courses and are wanting to explore career opportunities in tech and digital.
In other words, this is also about actually landing a job, for which Code First: Girls already has a decent track record. Women that have received training from the social enterprise have gone on to roles at a number of startups, such as Onfido, Technology Will Save Us, BlaBlaCar, and Starling Bank.
Why does any of this matter? Code First: Girls cites statistics that show women are currently underrepresented in the U.K. technology sector and that this has actually gone backwards, falling from 33 percent in 2002 to 27 percent today. According to the U.K. Office of National Statistics, when you drill down to tech and telco professionals in the U.K., only 3.9 percent are female programmers and software developers, a number that has gone down from 10 percent in 2007. There are arguably many reasons for this, but there is no doubt that the pipeline is one major factor (and an excuse routinely provided by employers).
And, of course, tech is where the higher-paid future jobs are being generated and more broadly tech is reshaping every facet of society. People of all backgrounds and genders should and need to have a stake in how that future is being shaped, for themselves and the benefit of all of us.


Here’s a surprise: at our Disrupt Berlin event, Ulrich Spiesshofer, the CEO of 125-year old automation giant ABB, argued that automation is nothing to fear.
“I think we need to take this fear extremely seriously and get people out of this fear,” he said. In his view, automation and robotics has allowed millions of people to move beyond the extreme poverty line and it’s the countries that embraced automation — including the likes of China and India — that are doing much better than some of their counterparts that have resisted automation.
“Technology can be really good if you play it right,” Spiesshofer noted. “The truth is that the countries with the highest robot density — South Korea, Germany, Japan — have the lowest unemployment rates.” If people are afraid, Spiesshofer seemed to say, that’s because they don’t know the facts. ABB itself, he said, now has more employees who are robot engineers than it ever had casting mechanics.









This isn’t an easy path, though. Spiesshofer noted that we need a lifelong education ecosystem that enables intergenerational education. And companies like ABB need to embrace this and allow their employees to learn new skills. Ideally, the secondary benefit of doing that is increased morale and employee loyalty.
Looking ahead, though, isn’t the end-state artificial intelligence and a future where robots don’t need to collaborate with humans? Spiesshofer believes AI is all about augmenting human potential (a view he has in common with the likes of Satya Nadella). AI will only make humans more productive, and in the end, you’ll still need engineers who understand how these machines function.
It doesn’t come as a surprise that the CEO of ABB believes that automation will have a positive impact. Still, Spiesshofer clearly argues that this won’t be an easy path for everybody. You won’t be able to just do one job for the rest of your life, after all. You will have to learn new skills and ideally, you’ll learn how to program the robots that will then help you do your job. Good luck, humans.


Marketing tech company Zeta Global is making good use of its recent $140 million Series F funding round. After acquiring Boomtrain earlier this year, the company today announced it has acquired Disqus, a service you’re probably familiar with thanks to its ubiquitous online commenting service that powers the commenting sections of sites that range from TMZ to The Atlantic and Entertainment Weekly.
A source close to the two companies tells us that the acquisition price was close to $90 million. This marks Zeta’s eleventh acquisition since it was founded in 2007.
Zeta Global’s acquisitions have typically focused on more fundamental technologies like AI and machine learning, customer lifecycle management and other adtech related services. At first glance, Disqus doesn’t quite seem to fit into this list, but Disqus sits on a huge data set that goes beyond your favorite troll’s political comments.
“Marketers typically have to make trade-offs between reaching engaged audiences on social platforms with massive reach and using tools that give them control and access to granular targeting capabilities,” said Zeta Global CEO, chairman and co-founder David A. Steinberg. “Disqus strengthens Zeta’s ability to offer the best of both worlds with the scale, visibility and performance marketers have been asking for.”
Disqus gives these marketers the ability to target users based on their interests. You can infer quite a bit about people simply based on which sites they comment on, after all. At the same time, though, most of the online commenting has now moved to social media and the number of comments on most sites is in a steady decline. So while Zeta is acquired a large hoard of data, it remains to be seen how long that data will stay current.
Zeta promises that it will continue to grow Disqus’ core business and platform and use its existing AI capabilities and data assets to enhance Disqus’ analytics. Zeta also expects to integrate Disqus’ platform with its personalization and messaging capabilities to build new offerings for publishers and brands.
Disqus launched in 2007, when there was still a lot of excitement around commenting and a number of similar third-party commenting systems like Intense Debate (acquired by Automattic in 2008) and Livefyre (acquired by Adobe in 2016) sprung up that all took a slightly different approach to offering this kind of service but essentially offered the same features.
About a year ago, we reported that Disqus laid off about 20 percent of its staff, for a total of 11 employees, in an effort to rebalance its priorities to focus more on data services for publishers and advertisers. That’s clearly what Zeta was interested in, too.
Ahead of the acquisition, Disqus had raised a total of $10.5 million, which isn’t exactly a lot for a 10-year-old company. Investors include the likes of North Bridge Venture Partners, Union Square Ventures, Felicis Ventures and Knight’s Bridge Capital Partners. Disqus was also an early Y Combinator graduate (and we used it here on TechCrunch for a while, too).

Featured Image: Tero Vesalainen/Getty Images


James Williams is a doctoral candidate at the Oxford Internet Institute. He studies the ethics of attention and persuasion in technology design and spoke with us about the rise of attention-grabbing advertising and media and how we can fight back against the onslaught.
I talked to him just before Thanksgiving for this enlightening episode of Technotopia.
Before fighting against bad advertising Williams worked at Google on “advertising products and tools.” His work now is aimed at reversing exactly what he built and he wants to use the tools he made to help fix advertising.
Technotopia is a podcast by John Biggs about a better future. You can subscribe in Stitcher, RSS, or iTunes and listen the MP3 here.




Amazon announced today it’s expanding its product selection on Prime Now, its one and two-hour delivery service, to now include last-minute holiday gifts with the addition of Amazon Handmade products. For the first time, handcrafted items from local artisans – including things like home décor, jewelry, art, and more – will be available starting today all the way through Christmas Eve, the retailer says.
Launched back in 2015, Amazon Handmade is Amazon’s attempt at taking on larger crafts marketplaces like Etsy, where people today shop for gifts that haven’t been mass-produced. This appeals to a certain type of online shopper – those who want to reward artisans not big businesses, those who want their gifts to feel more personalized and authentic, and those who want to buy locally.
The products from Handmade that will be available on Prime Now through the holidays including things like handcrafted pottery, necklaces, skincare, tote bags and candles, among other things.
After the order is placed, Prime members can request to take delivery in an hour for a fee, or in two hours for free.
“Amazon is thrilled to continue expanding on our commitment to small businesses and artisans who can leverage Amazon’s last-mile delivery technology to get their handcrafted items to Prime members in an hour or less,” said Stephenie Landry, vice president of Prime Now, in a statement about the launch.
Prime Now, which launched in Manhattan four years ago, is now available in over 30 cities across the U.S. However, Amazon Handmade items wouldn’t be offered in all markets – just Austin, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Minneapolis, Phoenix, Portland, Raleigh, San Diego, San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle.
They’re also not going to be available year-round for last-minute gifts, but are instead a holiday promotion that will end on Christmas Eve.


Femtech startup Clue is looking at expanding the feature-set of its period tracking app to attract women outside its current younger demographic.
“Menopause is a huge space,” said founder Ida Tin, speaking on stage here at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin. “I’ve been submerged into this area of female health for almost a decade now and every day I learn something new and everywhere I look I’m like ‘why is nobody dealing with this?’
“Where is technology? How is technology serving women’s needs when they go through menopause? There is nothing — it’s really, really just this open space. So what we really want to do with Clue is to kind of be a companion as they walk through life.”
While she said the current priority for the app is adding more features to serve its existing user base, who are mainly using it for period tracking, features for tracking menopause symptoms could also be added “in the coming months and years”.



The transformative potential of tracking data to unlock a deeper understanding of health issues was also discussed during the session.
“Give it a few years and I think that people will start understanding that having this longitude data-set of your health is going to be an incredibly valuable thing to have — almost like life insurance,” said Tin.
“Because we will learn to pick up early signals of disease that currently we have no ways to detect early enough — ovarian cancer would be one of them. Which is totally treatable if you catch it early. But it’s hard to catch it early.
“And I think there will be many more things like this where people will learn to know that collecting data for your health is just a really, really smart thing to do.”
But on the data front she also cautioned that technology companies pushing into the health space really need to prioritize data transparency and ethics.
Taking time to do due diligence on potential partners is one of the reasons Clue has been holding off on doing more integrations with third parties which could expand its own data pipe, she added, noting also that it would rather partner with a hardware maker than build its own devices.
Hardware devices that are really exciting her are “the kind of things that can tell us about what’s going on in the body at a more molecular level”, she said.
“And also things where the user experience can be true mass market — I think at the moment we have some solutions for natural family planning but… the user experience is not what it needs to be for it to be something that’s really working for a lot of people. So those are the kinds of things we think we have ideas that could make that better.”
“That’s definitely an ambition that we have to integrate with a lot of different things — and it’s wonderful to be in this space of femtech because there is so much happening,” added Tin. “But we’ve been holding off til we’ve figured out what really to do with those extra data streams, what partnership we felt is a really good brand fit.
“Especially with some of the big corporations — we want to really make sure that we have the user’s needs at the center of our attention. And make sure that we can navigate something as challenging as a partnership with a big corporation without that, in the end, not benefiting the user.”
Responding to a question about concerns raised in the UK by a data-sharing and app development partnership between ad giant Google DeepMind and the country’s National Health Service, she said: “I think the lack of transparency is really problematic.”
This summer, a 2015 agreement between the Royal Free NHS Trust and DeepMind was judged by the UK’s data protection watchdog to have broken privacy laws. Under the arrangement, the medical records of 1.6M patients using three London hospitals passed to DeepMind without the people’s knowledge or consent — and, as it turned out, with no legal basis for the information to be shared.
“Things that happen without users understanding where their data is going I think just shouldn’t happen,” said Tin.
“There’s always this kind of tension between — that data can be used for bad and data that can be used for good. And I think right now there’s so much connotation that data is kind of a negative thing, and people are misusing it, selling it, hacking it, breaking it. And I really want to also raise the voice — and it’s a fantastic thing that we can now understand all this thing that we couldn’t understand before. And really be a stance that we can use data for good — we just need to get it right. We shouldn’t shy away and think data’s bad.
“Data’s fantastic — it’s when we misuse it, it becomes problematic,” she added. “So let’s build good, ethical, solid data companies.
“It’s starts with a very deep, ethical choice that you make as a founder, as a company… What kind of company do we want to be? And what do we think is right? And then living by those standards.”


Now that its bottom line is being affected, YouTube says it will begin to take additional steps to protect its advertisers and creators from inappropriate content on its network. In a blog post authored by YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki on Monday, the company said it will increase its staff to 10,000 in 2018 to help better moderate video content, and perform other related tasks.* The news follows a series of scandals on the video-sharing site related to its lack of policing around content aimed at children, obscene comments on videos of children, horrifying search suggestions, and more.
* Update: YouTube reached out to clarify its hiring numbers. Its teams include a mix of different specialists working on these issues, the majority who are content reviewers. But the number also includes other policy specialists who review and take action on content, engineers building and refining the machine learning technology, and policy specialists training our machine learning algorithms. The 10K ‘content reviewers’ headline was not accurate, and we’ve corrected.  
The company has been suffering from the fallout of accusations that it has for too long allowed bad actors to game its recommendation algorithms to reach children with videos that aren’t meant for younger viewers. At the same time, it has seemingly fostered a community of creators making videos that involve putting kids in concerning, and even exploitive, situations.
One example, the channel ToyFreaks, was recently terminated after concerns were raised about its videos, where a fathers’ young daughters were filmed in odd, upsetting and inappropriate situations, at times.
YouTube had said then the channel’s removal was part of a new tightening of its child endangerment policies. It also last month implemented new policies to flag videos where inappropriate content was aimed at children.
It has since pulled down thousands of videos of children as a result, and removed the advertising from nearly 2 million videos and over 50,000 channels.

Having policies is one thing, but having staff on hand to actually enforce them is another.
That’s why YouTube says it’s now planning to increase its workforce focused on this task. While the blog post from Wojcicki only offered the number of total hires it planned to have on staff by next year, a report from BuzzFeed notes this “over 10,000” figure represents a 25 percent increase from the current staffing levels.
However, YouTube still relies heavily on algorithms to help police its content. As Wojcicki noted in a blog post, YouTube plans to use machine learning technology to help it “quickly and efficiently remove content that violates our guidelines.”
This same technology has aided YouTube in flagging violent extremist content on the site, leading to the removal of over 150,000 videos since June.
“Today, 98 percent of the videos we remove for violent extremism are flagged by our machine-learning algorithms,” Wojcicki wrote. “Our advances in machine learning let us now take down nearly 70 percent of violent extremist content within eight hours of upload and nearly half of it in two hours and we continue to accelerate that speed,” she added.
The goal is now turn those technologies to a more difficult (and sometimes less obvious) area to police.
While some content is easier to spot – like videos where kids seem to be in pain, or being ‘pranked’ by parents in a cruel fashion – other videos exist in a much grayer area.

There are so many parents who have roped their kids into their quest for YouTube stardom, it’s hard to draw a fine line between what’s appropriate and what’s not.
One question that needs to be raised is to what extent can a preschooler or schoolager really consent to participating in mom or dad’s daily videos? Shouldn’t they be free to play instead of constantly instructed to act out various skits, or have the camera trained on them nonstop? These channels, after all, aren’t just the occasional fun video – they are often full-time jobs for parents. There are laws in the U.S. around child labor, and child actors in particular, but YouTube has continually danced around that line, as it’s “not really TV” – and that means it doesn’t have to play by TV’s rules regarding deceptive ads, junk food ads, and more.
In addition to the new policies and promises of increased staffing, YouTube also says it will create regular reports where it’s transparent about the aggregate data regarding the flags it receives, and the actions it takes to remove videos and comments that violate its content policies.
And most importantly, in terms of its business, YouTube says it will more carefully consider which channels and videos are eligible for advertising using a set of stricter criteria, combined with more manual curation.
“We are taking these actions because it’s the right thing to do,” wrote Wojcicki. “Creators make incredible content that builds global fan bases. Fans come to YouTube to watch, share, and engage with this content. Advertisers, who want to reach those people, fund this creator economy. Each of these groups is essential to YouTube’s creative ecosystem—none can thrive on YouTube without the other—and all three deserve our best efforts.”
Personally, I’d love it if YouTube cut off the ability for creators to make money from videos featuring children, period. Maybe the too-young stars could finally get a break and just be allowed to just go be kids again. But I won’t hold my breath.

Featured Image: nevodka/iStock Editorial


GM is making it possible to shop right from your vehicle’s infotainment system, while on the go. The carmaker is pushing out an update for model year 2017 and later vehicles, which will go out to all cars even if the owner doesn’t have a paid in-car Wi-Fi data subscription, that adds ‘Marketplace,’ a new kind of commerce platform.
Marketplace is already rolling out to Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and Cadillac cars, and offers a number of possible purchase options through partners at launch, including Dunkin’ Donuts, Wingstop, Shell, ExxonMobil, Applebee’s and more. GM focused on retailers and gas station providers initially because these stand to have the most impact in terms of making car owner’s drive easier.
You can also make reservations at restaurants via Marketplace (TGI Fridays is on board right now), as well as reserve parking spots ahead of time and then pay for time. And the in-dash Marketplace purchasing process is actually intended to be used while you’re actually driving, with a purchase flow that’s intended to minimize distraction and keep attention on the road.
I spoke to GM Director of Global Digital Experience & Connected Vehicles John McFarland about why GM chose to build an in-vehicle ecommerce platform, and in particular one designed to actually be used while driving.
“Rather than having somebody have to, if they’re going to engage on their phone, pull over and get in park while they’re doing it, which causes you to lose valuable time, or even worse, the temptation for people to try to use their phone while driving which is something that we definitely don’t want… we believe in doing everything we can to make it available while making it safe while in motion,” he said.
Distracted driving is always top of mind for automakers, especially given the rising number of human-caused traffic fatalities. NHTSA has made clear how a significant portion of this is down to mobile device usage, which is a major contributor to distracted driving. GM has designed the ecommerce experience to be easy to navigate while on the road safety and securely, partly in hopes that people will take advantage of this rather than trying to accomplish the same thing using their smartphone.

That also explains its choice of launch partners – McFarland made clear the carmaker wanted to select businesses that made sense for use on the road, with a focus on things that regularly make up part of a user’s commute. Starbucks is coming onboard in 2018, for instance, in addition to the other partners listed above.
In addition to those, GM is also making it possible to buy upgrades, accessories and care for your GM vehicle, as well as top-ups for in-car Wi-Fi plans. Also, data used via Marketplace doesn’t count towards your totals if you are a Wi-Fi subscriber.
One other way GM is making the in-car shopping experience more convenient is through user of machine learning to identify what you’re mostly likely to want to buy, and when. So, if you have a routine that typically involves picking up a coffee on the way to work, you’ll get a suggestion to pick one up based on signals including time of day, location, preferred merchant and more.
As of right now, McFarland tells me that the Marketplace platform is considered ‘open,’ though GM is working directly with interested merchants, retailers and restaurants, along with its technology partners Xevo, Conversable and Sionic mobile to tailor their offerings before setting them live.
This is another great example of an automaker varying their approach to business in order to become something more than just a seller of cars; we’ve seen a lot of carmakers engage in data plays, and in-car ecommerce is definitely part of that. It’s also a feature that could potentially have a tremendous impact in an autonomous driving future, and while McFarland says the focus thus far has been on building something that drivers can use while on the road now, they’ve definitely given thought to its potential in driverless applications.


N26, the European mobile banking service, today announced the launch of N26 Metal, the company’s premium MasterCard-affiliated debit card “tailored to the needs of digital customers” at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin. N26 Black customers in Germany, France, Italy and Austria will be able to sign up for the new NFC-enabled card, which obviously features a metal core made from tungsten and that makes the card weigh a lot, starting December 14.
So what’s special about this card? N26 describes the N26 Metal as its new “top-of-the-line premium MasterCard product, after all. The company argues that the card offers dedicated customer service, worldwide travel insurance, no foreign withdrawal fees and good exchange rates.

To be honest, that doesn’t feel all that special, especially given the perks U.S. credit card companies often provide on top of this. In Europe, however, these kind of perks are still rather unusual (in large part due to the lower interchange fees in Europe). But N26 says that it also offers its customers exclusive partner programs that cater “to the needs of digital customers who expect easy on-demand access to the products and services they enjoy.”
It’s also worth noting that this is the first metal card in Europe that supports contactless payments.
What better company to partner with then than co-working and real estate startup WeWork. Using the N26 Metal service, N26 customers will also be able to join the WeWork network and get credits to reserve workspaces and conference rooms. “It’s fitting with the lifestyle that we are aiming for — and that of our customers,” N26 CEO Valentin Stalf noted today.


Valentin Stalf of N26 explains how they make money, announces super premium card and partnership with WeWork #TCDisrupt pic.twitter.com/TxM7hCeMnd
— TechCrunch (@TechCrunch) December 5, 2017


Earlier this year, Parity Technologies seemingly lost about $150 million worth of Ethereum (513,774.16 Ether) when a user of its wallet accidentally deleted a code library that made Parity’s wallets work. At least 1 million in ETH became frozen — and about $90 million of those were actually from Parity co-founder and Ethereum core developer Gavin Wood’s token sale for its Pokadot blockchain technology. The money may not be lost forever, though.
Today at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin, Woods and Parity CEO and co-founder Jutta Steiner retraced their story of what happened. “A library that governs the logic of the wallets that people use had a bug, which was due to a delicate refactoring at the time when the tools weren’t yet that developed,” Steiner said, arguing it’s a symptom of the technology still being young at the time. “We hadn’t figured out how to deal with bugs.”



As TechCrunch editor-at-large Mike Butcher noted, though, the bug that caused this freeze was actually known and had been reported long before it caused this issue. Steiner didn’t disagree, but noted that this issue wasn’t reported as a critical security flaw at the time. “It sounded like a nice-to-have update,” she said.
Steiner, however, said that she is confident that a fix for this issue, which could unfreeze the money, may happen when the next scheduled update goes live in the next four to six months.
How upset is Woods about this? It doesn’t seem like he’s too fazed by it. “It’s a long-term savings account for us right now,” he quipped. But while the two might have sounded nonchalant on stage about the issue, it’s clearly a sensitive subject for both Parity and Polkadot.
It’s still extremely early days for these technologies, and as Butcher noted, we’re in the ‘moon-landing’ phase of this brand new industry.


Boom Supersonic wants to revitalize and improve the world of supersonic passenger flight, and it now has a new partner on board in its mission – Japan Airlines (JAL), one of the world’s leading passenger flight providers. JAL is putting $10 million into Boom via a strategic investment, and is also going to help Boom with aircraft design and with aspects of the in-flight passenger experience.
As part of the arrangement, JAL also now has the option to purchase up to 20 Boom Supersonic aircraft once they become commercially available. This adds to existing orders from airlines that Boom already has in place, bringing its total to 76 aircraft accounted for across five global airlines.
JAL has actually already been working with Boom for over a year, according to Boom founder and CEO Blake Scholl, but this more clearly formalizes the relationship. Having airline stakeholders closely involved in how the development of its aircraft and service plans will work is a huge boon for Boom, which is a very small company with very ambitious goals. Boom is consistently lining up big partners in aviation, however, including Richard Branson’s Virgin Airlines, and Scholl told me this is a key part of its strategic planning.
“Each of our deals is designed to be appropriate for the particular context,” Scholl explained via email. “We expect to do many deals with many airlines. Initially, our goal is to select at least one partner in every region of the world. We will continue to engage with other global carriers to maximize the value of JAL’s investment and bring back supersonic commercial travel.”
Boom’s aircraft design is intended to be able to achieve speeds of Mach 2.2 during regular cruising flight, and can traverse up to 8,334 km on a single tank with seating for up to 55 customers with Business Class-type comfort and accommodations – as well as airfares in line with current Business Class pricing, despite cutting travel times drastically.
In terms of progress on making its supersonic jet a reality, Boom is in the process of selecting a production site for its aircraft, and hopes to have its commercial jet in service by 2023. Its supersonic subscale demonstrator jet, the XB-1, is still on track to fly its first test flight by the end of 2018.


Disrupt Berlin 2017 pushes onward, and today we have a jam-packed lineup of tech super stars.
We’ll be joined on stage by Parrot’s Henri Seydoux, Atomico’s Yann de Vries, ABB’s Ulrich Spiesshofer and Clue’s Ida Tin.
Plus, we’ll head into the Startup Battlefield Finals, judged by some of the world’s finest investors: Suranga Chandratillake (Balderton Capital), Tugce Ergul (Angel Labs), Luciana Lixandru (Accel), Matthew Panzarino (TechCrunch) and Mark Schmitz (Lakestar).
For those of you that can’t make it to Arena Berlin, we’ll be bringing the action directly to you.
So sit back, relax, and enjoy the show!
Ways to watch:

YouTube
Twitch
TechCrunch

Select panels will be available on Twitter/Periscope as well as Facebook Live.


Spotify’s annual Wrapped feature is now up to give users insights into what they streamed over the past twelve months. While obviously a promotion for the music service, Wrapped is a quick and amusing diversion from an increasingly hellish news cycle. Spotify acknowledges the fact that 2017 has been an ordeal for lots of people on Wrapped’s landing page, which says “in a year that many wanted to tune out, music gave us a reason to keep listening.”
Wrapped, which replaced Spotify’s personalized Year in Music feature last year, tells you the amount of time you spent streaming music in 2016 and how many songs and artists you listened to. Then it quizzes you to see how well you know your own listening habits before making a personalized playlist of 30 songs you might have missed this year.
Earlier today, Spotify, which now claims over 140 million active users, also released its Year in Music lists. Ed Sheeran was the platform’s most streamed artist globally in 2017 with 47 million monthly listeners, while his latest album, ÷, was played 3.1 billion times. Both Hip Hop and Latin music gained large amounts of new listeners, with “Despacito—Remix” by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee being named Spotify’s “Song of the Summer.” Other winners this year include Rihanna, the most streamed female artist of 2017, Drake, Taylor Swift, Camila Cabello and Coldplay.

Featured Image: Thomas Trutschel/Photothek/Getty Images


A long list of prominent American businesspeople have joined AOL co-founder Steve Case’s new Rise of the Rest seed fund for startups in the Midwest and other areas that are often overlooked by investors. Case told the New York Times that the fund has secured $150 million from backers including Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Eric Schmidt, the chairman of Alphabet.
As The New York Times puts it, the complete list of investors in the Rise of the Rest fund “may be the greatest concentration of American wealth and power in one investment fund.” In addition to Bezos and Schmidt, it includes:

Starbucks chairman Howard Schultz
Fashion designer Tory Burch
Bridgewater Associates founder Ray Dalio
Quicken Loans founder Dan Gilbert
KKR co-founder Henry Kravis
Carlyle Group co-founder David Rubenstein
Financier and philanthropist Michael Milken
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers chairman John Doerr
Breyer Capital founder Jim Breyer
Napster co-founder and former Facebook president Sean Parker
Spanx founder Sara Blakely
Tampa Bay Lightning and the Tampa Bay Storm owner Jeff Vinik
Banker Byron Trott
Goldman Sachs leader director Adebayo Ogunlesi
and members of the Walton, Koch and Pritzker families

The fund, which shares a name with Case’s speaking tour and startup pitch competition, plans to provide mentorship as well as financing to entrepreneurs located outside of Silicon Valley, New York City, Boston and other major business hubs.
Case told The New York Times that the Rise of the Rest fund isn’t a social impact fund, but instead seeks to increase investment in underserved regions by proving companies there can “generate top returns.”
Case is also a co-founder of Revolution, a Washington, D.C.-based venture capital firm that backs companies outside of major tech hubs. At Disrupt New York in May, Case told the audience that many regions are overlooked simply because investors can’t “get in their cars and drive to those companies” and he wants to convince other VCs to look outside of their comfort zones.

Featured Image: TechCrunch


Google’s made a number of tweaks since announcing Android Go back at I/O in May. The lightweight version is finally ready to launch, albeit with a slightly altered name. The OS is launching with the release of Android 8.1, now carrying the decidedly less catchy Android Oreo (Go edition) title. 
As per the new name, the Go version isn’t an altogether different operating system than the primary version of Android. In fact, in a number of ways, the software types are likely indistinguishable, and Google’s devoting a team to assuring that the Go edition gets updated and released on more or less the same schedule as its standard counterpart. 
Google made the announcement this evening at an event in India — a major potential market for the new version of the OS. As the company notes in a recent blog post, there are currently more Android users in India than the U.S., making it a huge market, along with other developing countries. A number of companies like Mozilla and Nokia have worked to address a rapidly expanding audience in these areas, but none are better positioned than Google.

With more than two billion activated Android devices in the world, the mobile operating system already has a strong footprint. Go Edition is an attempt to give users the best possible Android experience, in spite of hardware limitations. The Oreo configuration is designed specifically for devices with between 512MB and 1GB of RAM. 
According to Google, that comes with all sorts of benefits for the end user, including 30 percent faster startup time and an optimization of storage space, by up to 2x. The latter is accomplished, in part, by the inclusion of a number of optimized Go apps. It’s a pretty long list, including Google Go, Google Assistant Go, YouTube Go, Google Maps Go, Gmail Go, Gboard, Chrome and Files Go, a new file management app. There’s also a Go version of the Play store, which specializes in lightweight apps. 
All in all, the changes are relatively minimal. There are a few key things, including recent previews and multi-users settings, but it ultimately shouldn’t be too major a step down from the full Android, for the most part. Google’s also not limiting availability of the software to any specific region. Go edition will be available globally starting tomorrow. Compatible devices should start shipping early next year.


Two Senate Democrats will donate funds they received from Shervin Pishevar to charitable organizations after the venture capitalist was accused of sexual harassment and assault by multiple women. According to Bloomberg, which first reported on the allegations against Pishevar last week, U.S. Senators Kamala Harris of California and Cory Booker of New Jersey will give the money to advocacy groups, including organizations that support victims of sexual assault and domestic violence.
Pishevar is known for his Democratic fundraising in addition to his tech investments. According to OpenSecrets, Pishevar has given more than $500,000 to candidates and committees, including the presidential campaigns of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. Though neither have publicly announced intentions to run, both Harris and Booker are considered potential contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020.
Bloomberg also says that board members of Virgin Hyperloop One, which Pishevar co-founded in 2014, are pushing him to resign from the board, where he currently serves as co-executive chairman.
Last week Bloomberg said that five women told the publication they were assaulted or harassed by Pishevar. It also reported that Uber’s head of global expansion, Austin Geidt, had been propositioned by Pishevar multiple times, citing former and current colleagues (Geidt declined to comment to Bloomberg). Pishevar was an early investor in Uber and a board observer from 2011 to 2015.
Earlier this year, Pishevar was also investigated by the London police earlier this year over a rape allegation, but released without being charged.
Pishevar, who has claimed that he is the victim of a “smear campaign,” sued a GOP opposition research firm called Definers Public Affairs earlier this month for defamation. Definers Public Affairs has denied Pishevar’s claims, calling them “completely false” and “delusional,” but the lawsuit is already having a chilling effect. Bloomberg says several of Pishevar’s accusers were willing to be identified by name in its article, but changed their minds after he sued Definers Public Affairs, citing the potential of legal reprisal.
TechCrunch has contacted representatives of Harris, Booker and Pishevar for comment. A representative for Uber said “We fully support those who have felt harassed speaking out, whenever and however they choose. We commend their bravery.”


The Securities and Exchange Commission has charged Canadian crypto company PlexCorp with violating securities laws by selling up to $15 million in an initial coin offering (ICO).
ICOs have seen explosive growth over the past year as fledgling companies have used them to raise more than $3 billion in capital through various cryptocurrencies. However, experts have warned they can present several dangers to unsuspecting investors hoping to get into a hot new market as regulations are pretty loose.
Called PlexCoins, PlexCorp allegedly used this cryptocurrency to scam would-be investors hoping to cash in early on the company’s growth, telling them each PlexCoin would “yield a 1,354 percent profit in less than 29 days,” according to a statement from the SEC.
The government agency also charged company founders Dominic Lacroix and Sabrina Paradis-Royer for their part in the sale and announced it had frozen company assets in an effort to halt this “fast-moving Initial Coin Offering (ICO) fraud.”
In July, the Quebec Financial Markets Administrative Tribunal issued a series of orders prohibiting Lacroix from promoting the sale of PlexCoins ahead of the launch. In October, Quebec’s Superior Court ruled Lacroix was in contempt of court for continuing to solicit investment into PlexCoins.
PlexCorp has so far not gotten back to us for comment but has issued a statement on its Facebook page, telling fans it was “being depicted as robbers, scammers and fraudsters everywhere in the media.”
It then goes on to say, “We will cooperate with the QAMF and the SEC until the end of the investigation,” and that “a major update will be made this week on the PlexCoin website.”
This is not the first time the SEC has charged an ICO with fraud. In September, the agency charged both a diamond and a real estate initial coin offering scheme with defrauding investors. However, this is the first charge coming from the SEC’s new cyber unit and a testament to the agency’s willingness to crack down on a largely unregulated sector often rife with shady activity.

Featured Image: Li-Anne Dias


Apple Pay Cash is finally starting to roll out to users in the States, bringing the ability to send other iOS users payments directly through iMessage. The update is arriving piece by piece to those who’ve downloaded iOS 11.2, which launched two days back with a not-yet-live version of the feature. 
Apple Pay Cash was announced back in June at WWDC. However, the company added ahead of iOS 11’s September launch that the feature would be “coming this fall with an update to iOS 11 and watchOS 4,” and while it was intended to launch alongside 11.2, this weekend’s early arrival of the operating system left it behind, as the company worked to push the software live, seemingly in order to address an issue that was causing some iPhones to randomly reboot. 
The new feature is a proprietary take on mobile payment apps like Venmo, PayPal and Square Cash, allowing money to be transferred to friends and family in a message or using Siri. Money sent is drawn from the credit or debit card tied to a user’s Apple Wallet. When it’s received on the other side, it shows up as an Apple Pay Cash card — sort of a virtual gift card, also stored in the Apple Wallet.
That money can then be transferred to the bank or kept on the device as a gift card, where it can be spent anywhere that accepts Apple Pay. It’s an added convenience, bringing all of that functionality directly to iMessage, rather than having to mess about with a third-party app. But for Apple, it’s also a way to rope in users who have been reluctant to install Apple Pay, and keep people in the iMessage ecosystem.
The feature appears to still be rolling out in pieces here in the States. No word yet on a time frame for international expansion.


Victor Basta hit a nerve with his article on TechCrunch last week describing the “implosion” of venture capital over the past 36 months. Using PitchBook data, he found that the total number of VC rounds committed to startups has declined from 19,000 in 2014 to 10,000 estimated for this year, even while dollars invested has remained mostly static.
Silicon Valley is no longer making it rain so much as it is making it trickle, and that makes it much harder for startup founders who are just trying to get going building their companies. My conclusion is that we have a massive “first check problem” that goes beyond the vagaries of the investment market.
First though, let’s go through some alternative explanations. Basta posits that the end of the app and SaaS booms are largely to blame, along with a drop-off in investment in fintech.
Union Square Ventures investor Fred Wilson added his own two cents over the weekend, writing that, “When I talk to my friends who do a lot of angel investing, I hear that they are being more selective, licking some wounds, and waiting for liquidity on their better investments.” Similarly, “When I talk to my friends who started seed funds in the past decade, I hear them thinking about moving up market into larger funds and Series A rounds.” Wilson’s conclusion is that “For investors, it means seed rounds are going to be the place to be.”
There is some truth that investors are moving upstream. I analyzed a list of top angels and early-stage investors from 2012 to see how some of the highest-flying players in the Valley have changed their careers over the past five years.
The most common pattern is simply that highly successful angels now have their own institutional funds or have joined well-established VC firms in the Valley. Kevin Hartz joined Founders Fund last year, Keith Rabois joined Khosla, Shervin Pishevar founded Sherpa Capital in 2013, Joe Lonsdale put together the ill-fated Formation8 in 2011 before launching 8VC in 2015. And, of course, Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz converted a very successful angel investing career into one of the top mega funds of the Valley.
And a huge number of that list of top investors also expanded the size of their funds. Take Garry Tan, for example. He founded Initialized Capital in 2011 with a $7 million first fund, but last year closed on a $115 million vehicle for the firm’s third fund. That’s the story at a lot of places, from accelerators like Y Combinator or 500 Startups, to former super angels like Jeff Clavier, whose newly rechristened Uncork Capital (formerly SoftTech VC) increased its fund size from $12 million 10 years ago to $100 million last year.
Indeed, going through that list from five years ago, I had expected to find a bunch of people who had backed away from investing. There are definitely a few who are investing less today according to Crunchbase, but the reality is that success has begot success, and the most influential investors have largely remained so. So the cause for the implosion isn’t that a bunch of top investors suddenly decided to go home.
Instead, I see the challenge being purely the friction in the earliest round of a startup, what might be called the “first check problem.” Wilson is right when he says that seed investors are being more selective. As angels investing their own capital have professionalized by raising institutional dollars, they have added more and more steps to their due diligence process.
Founders I have spoken to who have recently fundraised — some of whom are on their second or third company — have told me that the level of diligence at the seed stage seems to have increased significantly over the past few years. Outside the blockchain space, where there is that “Wild West” throw-money-at-everything vibe, the days when you could load up on capital by just having a deck and a bold presentation seem to be closing.
That’s probably good on a risk-adjusted financial basis, but is devastating for a startup ecosystem. Indeed, there is a huge gap in the market for first check investors, the investor who believes in you the founder before any other data or proof is available. Being the first check in a company used to be a deep badge of honor for angel investors, but I have heard that boast less and less over the past five years. Everyone wants more data and evidence, everyone wants to reopen the last round rather than to lead the next one. So founders wait, and hustle, and try to construct a round as best they can. That friction shows up directly in the numbers.
There is still plenty of capital for great companies. Indeed, if you can build an extraordinary company, it has never been easier to go from single-digit millions to single-digit billions in valuation in a shorter period of time. But almost all startups start out ordinary before they become extraordinary, and without those first checks, they will never be able to make it.

Featured Image: Paul Heaberlin/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE


Disrupt is back in Berlin, where 15 teams have just taken the stage as part of the Startup Battlefield.
Each startup demonstrated their product and answered questions from our expert judges. Afterwards, we narrowed it down to five companies that will be competing tomorrow to take home €42,000 and the Battlefield Cup.
Tune in tomorrow at 3:10pm Berlin time to watch the finals.
Blik



Blik aims to modernize the process of knowing what’s in your warehouse, where certain items are stored and where they are in the production process. To do this, it uses a combination of wireless sensors and indoor location tracking.
Caspar Health



Caspar Health wants to make rehabilitative care easier and more accessible. The digital platform allows doctors to assign customizable therapy treatment plans to patients following an injury, surgery or other medical event, which patients then access via a mobile app.
eTrack Tech



eTrack Tech aims to ensure that equipment functions properly so that employees are safer and industrial companies can save money on one of their biggest expenses. The company’s device looks like a router with an array of multifunctional sensors, with data streamed to a hub device for collection and analysis.
Lia Diagnostics



The Lia Diagnostics pregnancy test will be the first-ever flushable test to hit the market, offering a more sustainable, disposable, convenient and private way for women to find out if they’re pregnant or not. Unlike traditional tests, Lia’s tests are made from a special paper that will disperse in water and biodegrade.
Wandelbots



Wandelbots focuses on solving a key problem in robotics. Its first product is a sensor-laden suit that a person can wear to demonstrate actions so that a robot can then replicate what they do.


At today’s Computer Science Education Week kickoff, the theme was women in coding. In the U.S., just 18 percent of computer science college graduates are women. Hence why tech leaders like Microsoft’s Peggy Johnson, Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg and YouTube’s Susan Wojcicki took to the stage at the College of San Mateo to discuss the importance of getting young girls involved in technology.
Wojcicki described how she was introduced to computer science by luck. As a history and literature major in college, Wojcicki decided to take a computer science class during her senior year.
“It was amazing to me that this one class really changed my life,” Wojcicki said. But it was by chance that she took that class, she said.
“In today’s world where technology is changing every single thing we do, it shouldn’t be about a matter of luck,” Wojcicki said.
Later in the morning, Sandberg noted how there is unequal access in the field of computer science. She referenced the statistic that just 15 percent of people majoring in computer science are black or Latinx.
“We also have to think about not just getting the usual suspects into this field but getting everyone into this field,” Sandberg said. “What we need is equal access to computer science education.”
Earlier today, Code.org announced $12 million in new funding to help improve access to computer science education. A number of states, school districts and organizations also announced new pledges and funding to increase computer science education initiatives.
Those who made the pledge include Florida Governor Rick Scott, who made a $15 million investment to increase opportunities for middle and high school students, and California Lt. Governor Gavin Newsom, who launched a Computer Science for California campaign to bring CS education to all students in California by 2025.
“What is core to being a technologist is that we believe that the future will be better than the past,” Sandberg said. “Not perfect. Not that technology will solve every problem. Not that technology doesn’t cause some of the problems,” but the belief that technology can lift people out of poverty and bring people closer together.

Featured Image: TechCrunch/MRD


Today in a press conference, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman elaborated on his office’s efforts to investigate the FCC’s flood of fake anti-net neutrality comments while calling for a delay of the agency’s vital net neutrality vote until the source of the fraudulent comments is identified. Schneiderman joined a group of 27 senators who are also calling for a delay on the December 14 vote that is widely expected to repeal Obama-era net neutrality rules.
Schneiderman was joined onstage by Democratic FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel, an Obama-era appointee who was reappointed by the Trump administration.
“[It is] incumbent upon the FCC and all of my colleagues to stand back, figure out what’s in this record before us and get to the bottom of these stolen identities,” said Rosenworcel. Schneiderman added that the feedback system was “corrupted” — a fact that he accuses the FCC of being well aware of.
According to Schneiderman, the net neutrality feedback process generated more than 23 million total comments, marking an unprecedented level of participation. His office suspects that as many as a million of those comments are linked to stolen identities, including a 13-year-old who never submitted a comment, a recently deceased woman and the office of the Attorney General’s own assistant press secretary. He called on government officials in other states with residents that appear to have “likely victims” to get involved, including California, Missouri, Texas, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Schneiderman cited reports that that half a million of the comments appear to have been filed from Russian email addresses, a fact that net neutrality advocates likely hope will stoke further public interest in the often dry proceedings of the communications regulatory body. Further, Schneiderman notes that 50,000 consumer complaints are missing from the FCC record.
The New York Attorney General’s office has been working on getting to the bottom of the fake FCC net neutrality comment controversy for months. Last month, Schneiderman criticized the FCC for its failure to cooperate in his office’s ongoing investigation into the fake comments, which it began in June, making repeated contacts to the FCC over the subsequent five months . Last week, Schneiderman set up a website that allows New Yorkers to report if their name and identifying info was misused to make a fraudulent net neutrality feedback comment appear legitimate. Last month, a data set analyzing the FCC’s net neutrality comments between April and October of this year revealed that more than a million anti-net neutrality comments that flooded the FCC’s system appear to have been sown by spambots, while as many as 99 percent of the legitimate comments were voicing their support of net neutrality.
“There’s no way with this set of corrupted records…[we can] have a vote based on what the American people really think,” Schneiderman said.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin / TechCrunch


As promised earlier, Target today launched its own mobile payments system with the introduction of “Wallet” in the Target app. Wallet, as the name implies, allows Target shoppers in-store to both check out using their smartphone as well as take advantage of their Cartwheel digital coupons and discounts with only one scan of their barcode.
Already, Cartwheel savings in Target’s app had worked like this – that is, after adding the discounts on selected products to your Target account using the Cartwheel feature, shoppers could present a barcode to be scanned at the point-of-sale to take advantage of the savings. The only difference between that and today, is that shoppers can now also choose to pay using their Target REDcard at the same time.
Target’s REDcard is available as both a debit card that links to customers’ bank accounts and a store credit card, and offers 5 percent back on purchases to encourage its use.
https://corporate.target.com/_media/TargetCorp/news/Video/Wallet%20in%20Target%20app/TargetWallet_v8-1x1.mp4
According to the retailer, the advantage for consumers is faster checkout – up to four times faster than “other payment types” it says, a jab at traditional payment methods like chip-and-PIN cards, for example, which are notoriously slow. (Of course, the retailer benefits, too, by pushing users to REDcard where it saves on credit card processing fees.)
In the near future, Target Wallet will also support the ability to add and pay with Target GiftCards as well, the retailer says.
Target isn’t the only major brick-and-mortar retailer with its own payments system. Walmart previously launched Walmart Pay; CVS has CVS Pay; and Kohl’s has Kohl’s Pay, for example. (Perhaps we should give Target credit for not naming its solution Target Pay.)
In addition to saving the company money by shifting consumers to store cards, in-house mobile payment solutions give retailers access to the consumer data they would have otherwise given up, had the shopper checked out with a mobile payment solution like Apple Pay, where that data is not shared.
“Wallet in the Target app makes checkout easier and faster than ever,” said Mike McNamara, Target’s chief information and digital officer, in a statement about Wallet’s launch. “Guests are going to love the convenience of having payment, Cartwheel offers, Weekly Ad coupons and GiftCards all in one place with Wallet.”
The new Wallet feature is available on both Android and iOS versions of the Target app.


Facebook and Instagram have begun testing a feature that allows you to more easily bring your Instagram contacts into Messenger. The experience, which is entirely opt-in for the app’s users, is the latest in a series of integrations between Instagram and Facebook’s properties, which has earlier included the cross-posting of Instagram Stories to Facebook as well as the ability to launch the Instagram app directly from Facebook. 
This time around, the two apps are making it simpler to sync your Instagram and Messenger accounts with one another.

In Messenger, you can now visit the People tab and tap on the new option “Connect to Instagram” to add your Instagram contacts to the list of friends you can reach with Facebook’s instant messaging application. You can also add your Instagram contacts from the Messenger sign-up flow, if you’re a new user.
Only your mutual follow contacts on Instagram will be imported, so there’s no concern that Instagram followers will now be able to spam you on Messenger, even if you don’t follow them back.

 
The option makes sense given that Instagram Messaging today is a heavily used feature – 375 million users were on Instagram Direct as of this April, for example. Presumably, these are Instagram friends you might want to chat with when on Messenger, too.
The integration is yet another example of how Facebook is leveraging its multiple mobile properties smartly to keep users in its ecosystem, and building out an even larger social network as a result. After all, not all Instagram users are Messenger users or Facebook users.
Plus, when the company combines its social graphs like this it’s able to better connect the dots when there’s overlap (potentially meaning more social data for advertisers in the long run).
Facebook and Instagram aren’t formally announcing the launch of this feature, but we understand it’s something the company has recently begun testing.
[h/t Jose Gutierrez]


A scant three months after its launch, the $50 million ConsenSys Ventures fund that was created to back companies developing applications on Ethereum (by Ethereum co-founder Joe Lubin’s ConsenSys Systems) has made its first four investments.
Created as another way to boost Ethereum adoption and back companies to get them traction in the market, the Ethereum Ventures fund hired Kavita Gupta — a rising star in the technology firmament to run its investment vehicle.
Gupta’s first commitments from the fund run the gamut — from a blockchain-based sweepstakes company to a blockchain-based esports betting service, a lending platform to provide liquidity for cryptocurrency investors and a security project to protect crypto-applications.
The fund does pre-seed, seed and token launches, according to Gupta, who would not disclose the size of the investments the firm is making.
But the companies the fund is backing come from some relatively seasoned entrepreneurs. BlockFi, the firm’s lending for liquidity startup, was founded by Zac Prince — a serial startup founder whose previous idea was the lending platform for the underbanked, Cognical.
Kavita Gupta, ConsenSys Ventures
Even more impressive is the esports betting company’s executive team, helmed by former Microsoft Bing Ventures investor Rahul Sood. Unikrn had already garnered a lot of attention from bitcoin bulls like MarK Cuban and raised $25 million in its September token sale.
That figure actually puts Unikrn on the high end for what investors these days will now stomach, says Gupta.
“There are very few ICOs or token launches that are basically going oversubscribed to those numbers,” she said referring to the heady days of over $100 million coin offerings (mind you, that was a few months ago).
The market is moving to them to a $20 million raise or a $10 million raise or a $5 million raise, Gupta said, as investors become more rational. And that’s forcing entrepreneurs to temper their own expectations. “Entrepreneurs understand that the market is way more intelligent and the FOMO is going down,” Gupta tells me.
What’s critical right now, Gupta says, is that businesses that want to leverage the blockchain think deeply about their product or service and whether pursuing a token sale even makes sense. In many cases, it may not, she said.
For Unikrn and another new investment in the stable, the sweepstakes provider Pryze, the answer of whether to token or not to token was a definite yes. But BlockFi had no need to issue tokens and took a straight equity investment. The company’s other investment, in the security space, also raised a token.
ConsenSys Ventures intends to be investing in companies outside of the ConsenSys stable, given the maturity of the company.
Gupta said that ConsenSys wants to be a long-term partner, but defines that as a six-month time frame for its holding period. Compared to venture funds, that doesn’t seem like an incredibly long time.
However, Gupta says the market is very new and the firm is taking a big risk on the entrepreneurs it backs. “This market is changing every day,” she said. “Six months is comparative to five years in a traditional venture market.”
For now the fund is a completely Ethereum-focused fund. But it could make investments on another blockchain platform if it had scale.


Popular Netflix political drama House of Cards is set to return to production early next year — but it will do so without its embattled star, Kevin Spacey. The news was confirmed by the company’s Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos on stage at UBS’s Global Media and Communications Conference this morning in New York City. 
This morning’s announcement follows news that the show halted production and ultimately severed ties with Spacey, after the actor was the latest in a long line of high-profile men to become the subject of sexual misconduct allegations. In spite of the actor’s absence, Robin Wright will star in the sixth and final season of the show, which is set to run eight episodes — five shorter than the previous seasons. 
According to The Hollywood Reporter, Sarandos promised that the sixth season of the program would offer fans “closure” on the story, though he wouldn’t disclose precisely how the show would continue on without Frank Underwood. 
The future of one of Netflix’s most popular programs has been in question since Star Trek actor Anthony Rapp went public with allegations that Spacey had made advances on the younger actor when he was 14 years old. Spacey issued an apology, “for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.”
The number of Spacey accusers has since grown to more than a dozen, though, as Rapp shared recently via Twitter, none of that news has stopped the actor from being berated on social media by angry viewers for his perceived role in the end of the show. 

Featured Image: Daniel Zuchnik/WireImage/Getty Images


Kinin is a new portable aromatherapy vaporizer that, in theory, offers a refreshing break from THC and nicotine based vapes. Multi-use products let you inhale the strange fragrances of “Narrow leaf eucalyptus,” “Polynesian kava kava,” and “nootropics.”
The product is part of the new trend toward healthier vaping and is aimed at yoga lovers and other outdoorsy folks. The product contains nothing addictive and is essentially a way to gently puff on nicer stuff than tobacco.
Created by a team in San Diego, the product costs $60 for three flavors and $22 for individual flavors including Recover (“Narrow leaf eucalyptus essential oils from Australia combine with peppermint and clary sage to sooth the nose and throat, while acting as an anti-microbial and anti-bacterial agent.”) and Relax (“A rich blend of Polynesian kava kava provides a grounding effect and sense of oneness, while the valerian root and copaiba aid in relaxation and rest.”)
Interestingly many of the same herbs you drink in tea or eat on feed can be vaped. Green tea, peppermint, and even chamomile can be vaped in most dry matter vaporizers and each offer a different effect including headache and congestion relief. While this doesn’t replace a nice bowl of sweet sweet ganja, it’s nice to know there is a clear and futuristic alternative to lighting up a Celestial Season Sleepytime teabag in your bong.


Peter Csathy
Contributor



Peter Csathy is Chairman of CREATV Media, a media innovation and advisory firm and the author of “Media 2.0 (18): An Insider’s Guide to Today’s Digital Media World & Where It’s Going”.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Netflix should be afraid of Disney’s OTT play
Top 10 digital media predictions for 2017



1. There will be blood in the escalating battle amongst premium OTT video giants, as the market becomes over-saturated, early winners and losers are declared and Netflix finds itself increasingly in everyone’s lines of sight — including Disney’s and Apple’s.
Originals continue to be the primary weapon used on the OTT video battlefront, extending digital media’s “New Golden Age” for creators. We already know that traditional pay TV providers like Comcast will enter the fray in 2018, as will Disney, when it launches its own pair of “Netflix Killers.”
But Apple almost certainly will also join the premium SVOD fray in 2018. It’s all-out war in the premium OTT video world, as cord-cutting accelerates and traditional cable and satellite providers shed more paying subs.

2. Most other new premium OTT video market entrants in this beyond-crowded premium OTT video space — including so-called niche-focused OTT video services — will be swallowed up or simply languish, squeezed out by market leaders and the sheer scale of Google and Facebook, with which they simply can’t compete for ad dollars.
Google and Facebook already own about two-thirds of that global digital advertising market. That means that most OTT video players simply cannot succeed on ad dollars alone — and other means of monetization will be beyond their reach because they fail to deliver a sufficiently compelling, differentiated and emotionally connected media experience. Winners will swallow up losers in an environment of accelerating M&A.
 3. The Hollywood community will begin to increasingly understand the power of new cost-effective technology-driven ways to test and measure new characters, stories and engagement in order to more smartly and efficiently place their big expensive bets. 
Innovative new services like comics-driven motion book company, Madefire; mobile-first horror-focused company Crypt TV; and mobile-focused text storytelling company Yarn point the way. Meanwhile, Netflix, Amazon and Facebook will continue to mine their deep data about all of our hopes and dreams to maximize “hits” and minimize “misses” as compared to traditionalists. And they will increasingly do a good job at it, as they become more confident in their creative pursuits.  

4. Spotify will go public at a lofty valuation, but those numbers and overall investor confidence will decline throughout the year, together with Pandora’s, as these two pure-play global streaming music leaders find it increasingly difficult to compete against “big box” behemoths Apple, Amazon and Google/YouTube. 
Yes, Spotify and Pandora boast massive scale. Yet scale alone does not financial success make. In fact, pure-play distribution success leads to higher and higher losses due to sobering industry economics these pure-plays can’t stomach, but the behemoths can due to their multi-pronged business models. These harsh realities mean that investors of many pure-play streaming services will take a hard look at themselves in 2018 as they contemplate their strategic next steps. Many will realize that they can’t go it alone. And that leads to M&A, which brings me to…

5. One company’s struggles are another company’s opportunity, and successful “bigger fish” will step up their M&A efforts to acquire those companies that see no long-term path to making it on their own.
M&A is a hallmark of today’s overall digital, multi-platform tech-infused transformation of the media and entertainment business. Just like AT&T made its move to acquire storied traditional Time Warner in 2016 and Verizon closed its acquisition of Yahoo! in 2017, expect some more massive deals in 2018. Right now, Fox is reported to be chased by Disney, Comcast and Verizon for OTT video-driven reasons. And don’t just look within U.S. borders — there is no virtual wall in our borderless digital media world.  6. Data finally becomes a high-profile, high-priority “missing link” in the strategies of most media and entertainment companies that will try to correct course.
Virtually all traditional media and entertainment companies now openly covet Netflix’s, Amazon’s and Facebook’s user data, as well as how those services leverage that data to their seemingly untouchable advantage. The quest for data — and the services that provide, analyze and inform — take on new urgency amongst the traditional media and entertainment ranks.

7. Brave new technologies like AI (via virtual assistants Alexa, Siri and Google) flood the mainstream and increasingly impact the worlds of media, entertainment and advertising, while blockchain technology captures industry mind-share and begins to infiltrate mainstream conversations.
The soothing voices of Alexa and Siri guide us through this AI revolution. “Virtual assistants,” “smart speakers” (or whatever you want to call them) will increasingly populate our homes, improve significantly over time and serve up our favorite content (as well as increasingly targeted and hoped-to-be “welcomed” incentives, promotions and ads).
At the same time, the voice of blockchain technology — barely acknowledged in media and entertainment circles in 2017 — will increasingly be heard and respected at the water cooler. Blockchain technology conceptually holds revolutionary and industry-transforming new offensive and defensive power. On the offensive front, blockchain will enable completely new ways to monetize content and direct creator-to-consumer distribution. And, on the defensive front, blockchain promises to eradicate piracy.
 8. Behemoths Apple, Google and Facebook will increase their already massive investments in immersive technologies, and 2018 will be AR’s break-out year in terms of mass adoption via ARKit and ARCore, which  give our mobile phones real “spatial sense” as true AR systems.
VCs and strategic investors will also continue to throw boatloads of cash into the overall immersive space. AR’s gold rush also means continued growth in the related “wearables” market and early, very early, consumer adoption of AR-driven eyewear. And, when a market together invests so heavily, a market becomes our consumer reality.

9. Basic rudimentary text-based services and audio podcasts will continue to astound in terms of both scale and counter-programming success. 
These forms of media face no significant licensing or royalty headwinds, unlike video and music streaming services. That means that all money that flows from them flows directly into the pockets of service providers. And, the most successful of these services can scale massively, meaning that monetization can be significant. Very. That’s why text-centric storytelling apps like Yarn are on fire right now.

10. The too-often-overlooked yet potentially game-changing live event and venue plank of truly 360-degree multi-platform strategies increasingly becomes noticed and offline experiments build.
Call this the “Amazon Effect,” as players across the digital media ecosystem stop scratching their heads about, and rather begin studying, Amazon’s direct-to-theater motion picture releases, brick and mortar retail stores, and Whole Foods super-stores. Amazon understands what most still haven’t even considered — that direct, non-virtual offline consumer engagement may be the most impactful plank of them all, bringing online engagement into the real world (and then back again to create a virtual cycle of brand engagement and consumer monetization every step of the way).

RELATED BONUS PREDICTION — In reaction to 2017’s sobering and frequently shocking negative societal forces, many digital media companies will take things even further by infusing their offline efforts with social impact, an inspirational and motivational element that is already proven to be commercially smart.
Such fully realized efforts hold the tantalizing power to transform digital media’s virtual cycle into a fully realized multi-platform virtuous circle. Double bottom-line — profitable both commercially, and socially. Hey, digital media companies: Don’t underestimate the power of humanizing your efforts with a healthy dose of offline “soul.”

Featured Image: Atlas social media/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


We’re here at Arena Berlin for Disrupt Berlin 2017, TechCrunch’s annual Europe event, where our stage plays host to speaker panels featuring top figures in tech and, of course, our Startup Battlefield competition.
Preceding the Disrupt conference, hundreds of engineers and designers combined into 45 teams for a Hackathon, during which teams presented creative hacks born during the 24 hour event. You can read about the winners and runners-up here. 
In case you missed any of the speaker panels or Startup Battlefield presentations, here they are in one place.
DAY 1
Ole Harms of MOIA discusses the company’s first year and what’s next
 


In conversation with Ana Izquierdo (Talent Clue), Alicia Navarro (Skimlinks) and Johannes Reck (GetYourGuide)
 


Fireside Chat with Cal Henderson (Slack)
 


In conversation with Tania Boler (Elvie)
 


In conversation with Thomas Korte (AngelPad), Andy McLoughlin (Uncork Capital) and Timo Rein (Pipedrive)
 


Startup Battlefield Session 1
Lia Diagnostics presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Notch presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


AI Spotter presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Nexto presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Trillium presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Lucas von Cranach of Onefootball speaks about building a global audience
 


Startup Battlefield Session 2
Wandlebots presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


FTCash presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


QEDit presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Etrack presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Reason8 presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Index Ventures spells out the ABCs of investing
 


Mona El Isa of Melonport and Tim Zagar of Iconomi on how Europe and the developing world are using Blockchain tech
 


Fireside Chat with Kavita Gupta (ConsenSys Capital)
 


In conversation with Samantha Jérusalmy (Elaia Partners), Frédéric Mazzella (BlaBlaCar) and Mounia Rkha (Isai Ventures)
 


Startup Battlefield Session 3
Caspar presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


The Sun Exchange presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


WICASTR presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


Blik presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


Proof Work presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


 
DAY 2
Ida Tin of Clue speaks about female health
 


Driving mainstream adoption of blockchain with Jutta Steiner and Gavin Wood of Parity Technologies
 


Why Berlin will be the startup capital of the future
 


Ulrich Spiesshofer of ABB discusses the push toward robotics factories
 


On stage demo with Ultrahaptics at Disrupt Berlin
 


Connecting the professional world of science with ResearchGate at Disrupt Berlin
 


Neufund co-founder and founder of KR1 discuss building businesses based on the blockchain
 


How Eligo Bioscience is treating diseases without the need for antibiotics
 


How startups are hoping to ride the wave of flying cars
 


Startup Battlefield Finals
Blik presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


Caspar Health presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


eTrack Tech presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


Lia Diagnostics presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


Wandelbots presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


How Ada Health aims to improve access to healthcare globally through the use of AI
 


The future of commercial drones with Parrot, Sky Futures, and Uavia
 


How MessageBird is staying ahead of consumer’s expectations
 


Lia Diagnostics wins Disrupt Berin Startup Battlefield 


Raising a Series A is hard for a founder. Especially when you consider they’re usually doing it for the first time, while the VCs on the other side of the table are essentially professional negotiators getting pitched and doing deals every day.
So to help give founders a leg up Justin Kan’s new legal tech startup Atrium is launching a program to help founders become better fundraisers.
Called Atrium Academy, the free two-day program pairs new founders with seasoned entrepreneurs and VCs to learn best tips on negotiation, building demand and a narrative and raising in general. It’s almost like YC’s startup school, but instead of bringing in enterprising students and convincing them to start a company Atrium is bringing in established companies and helping them raise a Series A or first major round of funding.
The startup ran a trial program last month and had 130 applications that were whittled down to 12 founders from around the world who flew in for the program. While there’s no set number of how many the program will accept, Kan made it clear that founders had to be running successful companies on track to soon raise a round.

Accepted founders were able to spend time in office hours with VCs from firms like Accel, General Catalyst and Initialized Capital and also see presentations and fireside talks from entrepreneurs who have had success raising Series A rounds.
Startups also were able to meet with Atrium’s lawyers for counseling and legal preparation specifically for the financing process. All attendees also receive discounted legal services if they choose to use Atrium as their law firm. Of course some may say that this is all just a lead generation tactic to get more companies using Atrium as their lawyer when they decide to raise a Series A.
Kan didn’t totally dismiss this idea – instead saying that it’s more realistically “very indirect lead generation”. Certainly Atrium won’t be able to sign up all of these companies – some may already have lawyers from a seed round, and other may never end up raising or just decide not to use Atrium. But Kan sees the program as a great way to build goodwill for his company while at the same time getting to help the startup ecosystem in general, regardless of how much direct payback it results in.
Atrium plans on hosting four batches a year going forward, with the first being January 13th, 2018. Applications are open now.


There has been a veritable explosion of connected devices that people are using these days to interact with apps and the internet, from smartphones and computers, to cars, watches, home speakers and refrigerators. Now a startup out of Berlin called Contentful has raised $28 million to position itself as the platform to manage how all that information is delivered via a set of APIs.
The Series C funding is led by General Catalyst, the VC that last year raised an $845 million fund on the back of its strong track record with Stripe, Snapchat, Kayak and other so-called Unicorn startups pushing past a billion-dollar valuation by some way. Others in the round include Benchmark Capital, Balderton Capital, and Point Nine Capital — all repeat backers of the startup. It brings the total raised by Contentful to $45 million, and we asked but the company is not disclosing its valuation except to say that it is an upround.
When many people today think of cloud-based content management systems (CMS), the names that likely come to mind are WordPress (which we use), or Medium (which people leaving their companies like to use), or Tumblr (which is owned by the same company that owns TC).
Contentful can provide some of the same functionalities as these but it’s aimed at a different end: CEO and co-founder Sascha Konietzke describes it as a “headless” CMS, not unlike Stripe’s relationship to payments: there is no front end for ingesting and formatting content, or design end for producing the final look of that content for the reader. Instead, there are a set of APIs that developers of the media product in question can use to control both of those aspects more flexibly.
“Existing CMSs are like the MS-DOS of the internet,” Konietzke said. “No one really likes to use them, similar to older payment systems before Stripe.”
First rolled out in beta in 2013, the idea has proven itself to be, in fact, very prescient. While we still do get a lot of our information from reading words published on paper or the web, the number of screens has exploded, and they are now accompanied by a whole new wave of voice-based interfaces on devices like the Amazon Echo, the Google Home or the HomePod from Apple, and visual and gesture-based interfaces by way of virtual reality hardware.
All of these take the idea of “content” but more specifically how we interact with it to a new dimension, and the idea of creating set of tools to deliver (or ingest) information efficiently, regardless of the platform, could end up becoming a key component of bringing these devices into the mainstream, not just with users needing more compelling reasons to use them, but media/gaming/content/any companies that are considering them as platforms for their business but do not want to spend an arm and a let figuring out how to use them regularly and well.
The company has 130,000 developers using its platform, with “thousands” of paying customers and many more free users (it’s a freemium product). Customers include Uber, Lyft, Samsung and Spotify, as well as companies you do not think of as “content” providers like WeWork, and a number of digital agencies (native content!) like R/GA and AKQA — in sum, “digital teams building digital products like mobile apps and using our APIs to power them.”
It’s notable that General Catalyst is backing them. The company has made some very smart calls on other quiet but powerful backend aggregators and service providers that provide essential B2B2C tools, such as Stripe and Kayak.
“At General Catalyst, we focus on user-centric products that have the potential to become hugely useful in enterprises,” said Trevor Oelschig, Managing Director at General Catalyst, in a statement. “Contentful is among this new ecosystem of platform services, which provide a fundamentally new infrastructure for building modern applications.”
The Berlin-based startup will be using the money to hire more and expand its product, and to build its business in the US, where it already has 60-70 percent of its business.




Featured Image: John Lund/Getty Images


“I get asked a lot… is this another dot-com bubble,” said Mona El Isa, the chief executive and co-founder of Melonport, onstage at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin. “And, um… my response usually… goes something like… so what if it is?”
For El Isa, who runs a company developing blockchain-regulated investment funds, and her fellow panelist, Tim Zagar, the chief executive of ICONOMI, the question isn’t about the bubble or when it bursts. The question is about setting up systems to better support whatever comes next.
Both of them insist that the overheating token-offering marketplace is cooling down and that a rationalization has come to token investing.
For El Isa, the bursting of the tech bubble in 2000 wasn’t the beginning of the tech industry, it was the end of the beginning. And, for the rest of us, history supports her thesis.
“The dot-com bubble was messy, but if we look at some of the largest companies that exist today they are a result of the dot-com bubble and they are part of our everyday lives,” El Isa said.
Mona El Isa, CEO and co-founder, Melonport
What bitcoin is providing, according to ICONOMI’s chief executive, is exposure to the possibility of value creation through cryptocurrency. Bitcoin becomes a gateway to the use of Ether, which creates opportunities to develop new technologies and services.
“Bitcoin is the introduction of blockchain accounting and Ethereum is the beginning of blockchain computing,” El Isa said. “The next logical step is that now we build software on top of these.”
The construction of the next generation of software companies, based on the blockchain, will require the input of regulators, says Zagar. “We are also talking with a few different regulators in Europe and helping them structure the setup and the rules,” he said.
The market needs some oversight, says Zagar. “The main concern [for regulators] is to protect investors. You don’t want to have scams and crazy projects. That’s extremely bad for our industry.”
El Isa agreed, saying that transparency for investors is important… and included a plug for her own technology. “You want to have technology regulate investment funds and remove the conflicts of interest in these processes.”
Both panelists agreed that the hype has outstripped the capacity of the technology to support it, and that the flurry of coin offerings raising at billion-dollar valuations had actually already abated.
ICONOMI chief executive and co-founder Tim Zagar
For Zagar, the move is toward the direction of how traditional startups were making money. No longer can projects count on a white paper and a solid team to generate investment interest. “The team needs to demonstrate a little bit more of the product,” he said.
“The bubble burst in the summer,” says Zagar, whose company provides a way for investors to finance digital assets. “Two or three vendors made a smart contract and made a bunch of money… This is over.”


Tel Aviv-based Proof Work is envisioning a future where patients own and control their own medical data in a decentralized system, where data is secured by the blockchain. The system, if successful, would be a big disruption to how health care data is handled today – where it’s often accessible only by the doctors and hospitals themselves, and where patients have to make special requests to have a copy of their own medical records.
In addition, today’s data isn’t easily shared between doctors. That means patients visiting a new doctor will often have to repeat their medical history all over again, or explain their current ailments.
Proof Work, which presented today onstage as the wildcard company at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield, believes the system should be simpler. The company is building tools that will allow healthcare companies to put their apps and services on the blockchain, as well as a tool – likely in the form of a mobile app first – that will allow patients to upload their own medical data to this blockchain-powered system.
“It’s a big try,” admits co-founder David Suter. “But we want to go patient-first.”
“As somebody who walks into a doctor or a hospital, there are many moving parts that are put into place behind the scenes in order to make sure we get the right level of care, the right treatment. All those moving parts are siloed,” Suter says. “What blockchain allows through smart contracts is to put all those moving parts on a longitudinal line in order to talk to each other.”
In the future, the goal is to allow patients to walk into a doctor’s office with all their medical records already on their phone.
“It’s a big undertaking; It’s not going to happen overnight,” he adds.





In addition, patients – not doctors – should get to decide what happens to those records, says Suter. Today, doctors will have patients sign agreements to allow them to share their medical data. In some cases, that includes allowing healthcare companies to sell anonymized medical data to pharmaceutical companies. With Proof Work, patients could choose to contribute their data or sell it, and the transactions would be transparent.
The company’s starting point for this larger idea of medical records powered by the blockchain is  a mobile app focused on non-adherence – meaning, the app will remind users to take their current medications through push notifications.
This isn’t the first attempt to use technology to fix the problem with medical records; others have tried to centralize records for easier access, including Microsoft HealthVault, for example.
One of the challenges getting prior systems to work was that healthcare companies aren’t necessarily interested in making it easier for patients to have access to their own medical records, says Suter. After all, the patients could go to another provider.
Suter believes the companies would be more willing to participate in a system like Proof Work, because they’ll have access to more data, because Proof Work users can choose to sell and share their data with them – where they’re paid for those transfers in Proof Work’s coin.
Proof Work is planning an ICO in six months to create its own coin that will allow the data to be traded. Insurance companies could then incentivize patients to take their medications by offering to pay them with the coin. The longer-term monetization plan is to take a small percentage of the transactions on its platform, including these data transfers or incentives.
The company, co-founded by Guy Aharonovsky, whose background is in cyber security, hopes to have its first application for consumers out in six months.


Knowing what’s in your warehouse, where certain items are stored and where they are in the production process is highly valuable information for any manufacturer. But today, gathering this information is typically done with barcodes and scanners — and scanning these codes can take up a large part of a worker’s day.
Blik, which is presenting in the TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield today, aims to modernize this process and make it as hands-off as possible by using a combination of wireless sensors and indoor location tracking.
The founding team of Bastian Burger (CEO), Victoria Hauzeneder (CTO) and Phillip Eller (COO) launched the company about a year ago. At the time, they were studying at the Technische Universität München (TUM) and working closely with BMW through a combination of internships and various university programs. The team realized that BMW’s systems for warehouse logistics left a few things to be desired. The result was a first (and very hacky) version of Blik that mostly relied on Raspberry Pis and other (largely ZigBee-based) hardware that was mostly meant for home automation.
“We started talking to BMW — but it wasn’t just BMW that needed this solution,” Eller told me. “We realized that there was a big need for this track and trace technology.”



blik-0239




blik-0240




blik-0241




blik-0235








To expand beyond these first prototypes, the Blik team now builds its own hardware, after having already built its own software stack. The hardware, which the company plans to offer as part of a software-as-a-service subscription, combines the sensors that sit on the load carriers inside the warehouse and a receiver system to receive the pulses that these sensors emit at regular intervals.
To determine the position of a sensor inside the warehouse (where GPS doesn’t work and where Bluetooth isn’t practical), the team first needs to scan the warehouse and gather enough data to allow for triangulating the position of the sensors. The team tells me that it can then determine the position with about a 5-meter accuracy. Because the system also tracks the equipment’s steps through the manufacturing process, that’s more than enough accuracy for most users. Because most of Blik’s potential users currently use SAP, the team also worked closely with SAP to integrate their systems, but it also offers a standard Rest API for those who want to build their own integrations.
In addition to working inside of warehouses, Blik’s users could also install receivers on their trucks to keep track of their products while they are on the road.
Right now, Blik is mostly working with car manufacturers like BMW and Volkswagen’s MAN group. In total, the company has signed six deals so far, which typically start with a two- to six-month pilot phase.
The team, which dropped out of college to start this company, has received about $170,000 in government grants and another $240,000 in revenue from its pilot projects with its first users. The founders, who recently hired their first employee, are now looking to raise additional money to expand and bring on new users.


Netflix has a new sci-fi series coming that’s likely to please fans of the genre. The trailer for the show is now available, giving you an introduction to the guiding concept of the show – basically people have figured out how to download their entire consciousness into new bodies so you can effectively live forever – provided you have enough money, I suspect.
The new show is called ‘Altered Carbon,’ and is based on the novel of the same name. It takes place in the future, and essentially involves a detective story in which a resurrected detective investigates the attempted murder of the world’s richest man.
It looks like it’s definitely going to aim for a Blade Runner-esque visual aesthetic, and maybe a similar soundtrack, too. Looks fun, though, and I imagine the tale of where they get the ‘sleeves’ for the consciousness transplants is going to be particularly good dramatic fodder. Also, sci-fi series regular Dichen Lachman is in the trailer, so that’s great.




Earlier today at the TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin event, founder Timo Rein took the stage alongside venture capitalists Andy McLoughlin of the early-stage firm Uncork Capital and Thomas Korte of the accelerator AngelPad.
The grouping wasn’t accidental. Rein, a former salesman who founded his CRM software company Pipedrive in 2010, launched the company in his home country of Estonia, soon after which McLoughlin and Korte persuaded him to come to San Francisco. (McLoughlin wrote him an early check as an angel investor; Korte then convinced him to pass through AngelPad’s twice yearly company-building program.)
The decision appears to have paid off for Pipedrive, which now employs 300 people in New York, Estonia, Portugal and the U.K., and which has raised roughly $31 million in funding to date. But it was a huge risk for Rein, and scaling has been far more difficult than founders with just one office might imagine.
You can click on the video at page bottom to see the full conversation, but some highlights that we found particularly instructive follow.
On foreign founders who are willing to move to Silicon Valley:
Korte said that the mere act of moving to the U.S. sets apart a lot of founders in his mind, a sentiment that McLoughlin echoed. “We now have more than 200 companies that we’ve invested in over 15 years,” said McLoughlin. “And when I look at the incidents of either immigrants or first-generation immigrants, they are far and away our star performers.”
Added McLoughlin, “I think that when you move to Silicon Valley, you’ll move mountains to make your company successful, because this is your shot. If you screw up, you have to go home.”
Certainly, the move wasn’t easy for Rein, who stayed in the Bay Area for four years after graduating from AngelPad, which resulted in four years of 5 a.m. phone calls with employees who remained in Estonia, located in the Eastern European Time Zone. (That’s 10 hours ahead.)
It was undoubtedly lonely at times, too, with Rein describing “finding Europeans” in the Bay Area as “a good feeling,” explaining that it was easier for him to feel that they were “real.” Said Rein with a laugh, a “lot of [people] in California, they’re way too friendly with you and you don’t know if they’re being [genuine or otherwise].”
It isn’t just the founders’ bravery that the venture capitalists said they admired. Korte commented on the “fiscal responsibility that Europeans have, because they’re so used to building their companies with relatively little money, or knowing they might not get another round.” Rein said he wasn’t sure if had a particular-type mindset because of his Estonian heritage, but he noted that questions Europeans tend to ask include, ” ‘How is this a business,’ rather than, ‘Let’s see if something flies.’ In the U.S., it’s ‘What could the next big dream be?’ ”
On the potential downsides of deciding to head to the U.S.:
Both Korte and McLoughlin said they strongly encourage the European founders they want to fund to move to the U.S. McLoughlin teasingly called VCs “inherently very lazy.” But he also said that — no joke — Uncork won’t fund entrepreneurs who aren’t willing to pull up stakes and move. (Korte won’t either.) Explained McLoughlin, “We want companies to be incorporated in Delaware [for legal reasons] but we also want them to be close. Most of the value that early-stage VCs provide is hands-on help with hiring and strategy and pricing and go-to-market and everything else, and it’s hard to do that if you aren’t in the same room.
“We maybe have the scar tissue, too, of companies that didn’t move and it’s been much harder for them to accelerate,” continued McLoughlin.
Rein clearly thinks spending time in California — before later relocating the company’s U.S. headquarters to time-zone friendlier New York — was well worth it.
But Rein has also managed to resist raising the kind of money that Silicon Valley VCs like to put to work and that can sometimes either drown a company or else force them to seek out far larger outcomes for their investors.
Korte pointed, for example, to one of his portfolio startups, DroneDeploy, a four-year-old drone mapping and analytics platform that has also raised $31 million to date. The company was founded by three South African founders who were living in the U.K. when Korte found them, and he says they moved to the U.S. because they “felt the best engineering they could find was at these [local] companies.” That said, Korte noted that even with similar funding pictures, DroneDeploy has “nowhere near the revenue or customers” that Pipedrive currently has, calling it a “trade-off” to be in more expensive (and often more demanding) Silicon Valley.

Other reasons not to move, said the panelists, include operating in a geography that has come to produce specialists in a certain kind of tech, like fintech and AI in the U.K. For many technologies, said McLoughlin, Silicon Valley is “probably the best place in the world” to live. For others, he acknowledged, “You can come and spend a lot of money and spin your wheels and actually be worse off than if you’d stayed in your home market and executed well there.”
Why expanding is more complicated than it looks — no matter which geography a founder chooses:
Asked how Rein manages four offices in different countries and maintains any semblance of a company culture, he was candid, saying it’s incredibly hard. “You almost have to look away from cultures and to what makes a human being a great person and a great [professional] and make that almost your guiding light as you hire.” It’s a challenge to pull off, largely because “people come from a national culture, and they tend to think [their culture] is the default, like, ‘This is how Brits look at the world, and it’s probably more right than [how someone else] looks at it.’ And Germans have that. Estonians have that,” he continued.
“The question is how you remove that default-level thinking,” Rein said, but it’s “not easy, especially when you look around the world in terms of what’s going on right now — the sensitivity in terms of what’s wrong and what’s not wrong in different societies.”
Managing far-flung offices is a pain operationally, too, noted McLoughlin, who’d previously co-founded the collaboration software company Huddle, which operated out of more than one office before selling in late summer by a private equity firm.
Pointing to Rein, he noted that it’s “easy to look at what these guys are doing and their four offices and [the fact that] they’re doing so well and conclude, ‘Oh, it must be really f_cking easy to have a multi-office situation.’ ” But having two offices isn’t twice as hard, said McLoughlin. Instead, he offered, “It’s like 10 times as hard, especially if you throw in a 10-hour time difference and then you add a third and fourth office. The amount of time and money and emotion that you put into your communications infrastructure is insane.”
One last challenge — and hardly the least of them — is catering to customers in different markets. Indeed, on stage today, Rein announced that Pipedrive just opened its second data center in Germany, years after opening its first in Chicago.
The reason: “People have differences toward everything” depending on where they live, he said.
Germany in particular is “amazingly sensitive toward data,” he continued, saying Pipedrive had “worked around” the issue as long as it could, but now it can far more easily serve Europe. That’s true from a compliance standpoint but also because it can now reassure its customers that it takes seriously their concerns about how their data is treated, said Rein.
More below.



(Pictured above, from left to right: Rein, McLoughlin, and Korte.)


Content distribution is hard. You want to keep enough of it close enough to favorite customers so they don’t have to wait and reduce latency for new data. That’s why WICASTR created the SMART Edge Platform, a system for sending content to the very edges of the network, including compatible local routers and access points.
“WICASTR is an ‘all in one solution’ for edge computing,” said founder Armine Saidi. “We are like Android ecosystem but for access points, routers and other edge devices: we have hardware, operating system and app store solutions to develop or deploy applications at the extreme edge with a simple 1-click solution.”
The company raised $1 million and went through TechStars. Their edge platform was inspired by the events of the Arab Spring. The founders wanted to create a system that would sustain damage caused by governments trying to shut down networks.
“The team embarked on a mission to create technology to facilitate seamless and uninterrupted communications and content distribution via all smart devices in the event of deliberate mobile network shutdown by governments,” said Saidi. This means devices on the network can act as content providers, thereby ensuring data can’t go down during an attack.
The team has been together for seven years and they have “deep domain expertise in IoT, wireless, software, hardware development, manufacturing and distribution.” They’ve launched with over 20 paying clients and work with Intel, Cisco, and Deutsche Telekom to build out powerful edge delivery.


Solar power could transform small communities around the world, but remote villages can’t always scrape together the thousands of dollars required to install the requisite cells. The Sun Exchange wants to change that by leveraging the hearts and wallets of hobby investors who cover the installation costs and then have their share of the revenue trickle in for years to come. There’s even a cryptocurrency!
The whole thing, as explained onstage at Disrupt Berlin today, works like this. First, the Sun Exchange and its partners (solar companies in various sun-drenched locations around the world) locate projects where a small installation — think less than a megawatt — could make a big impact, for instance rural clinics or villages with inconsistent power.
The installation is planned and priced out, and this info is put online at a dedicated page. At that point people can purchase a number of the solar cells in the facility, from a few bucks’ worth to a major investment.
Once the costs are covered, the array is constructed and put online within 60 days, its power provided to the community for a usage fee like any utility and investors (and the company) get a part of that fee proportionate to their ownership of the array. And it really is ownership: “You’re now the proud owner of some solar cells soaking up glorious African sunshine,” the FAQ reads, and the Sun Exchange just handles the leasing and fee collection. (And insurance and paperwork, of course.)
Ideally, it’s a win-win situation. The local community gets reliable, cheap power, and you get a steady (if small) source of income essentially coming straight from the sun.
Founder Abraham Cambridge started working on the business years ago, raising a little money on Indiegogo and building a prototype with it in early 2016. But it was only when he got a bit of angel money that summer (from BoostVC) that he began making it into a real business. A $1.6 million seed round announced last month ought to keep the lights on (though that shouldn’t be a problem with all that solar power).
“Our main goal is to make the deal look attractive enough to encourage customers to take money out of existing investments that are backing fossil fuels and be put into solar energy,” Cambridge told me. “It’s up to you to decide whether it’s a worthwhile investment.”
There’s also the feel-good factor, which can’t be dismissed. These are investments that might otherwise never have been made. As Cambridge pointed out to me, they’re well below the megawatt scale that established power companies would prefer to deploy. And decentralizing ownership is not just a good idea, it’s only possible right now through small deployments of renewables with manageable costs.
The cryptocurrency side of things isn’t a gimmick. It’s a way to move small amounts of capital from (say) the U.S. to South Africa without fiddling about too much with exchanges and bank fees. You can do a traditional currency exchange in order to pay in rand or another local currency, but that means your returns will be in that currency as well, so you’ll have to convert back if you want to get paid. Using bitcoin can certainly make simple purchases more complicated than they need to be, but for good-size international money transfers, it’s a pretty nice instrument.
And then there’s SolarCoin: it’s another cryptocurrency, one that is awarded to you as a solar power operator for every megawatt-hour of juice your cells generate. They’re not particularly valuable (currently around 50 cents per coin) but hey, it adds up.



theSunExchange-0227




theSunExchange-0226




theSunExchange-0223




theSunExchange-0228








Cambridge has been refining things and smoothing out obstacles since the idea struck him, but said that more than anything the interest shown by users has vindicated the model.
“I spent the first year of the business mapping out obstacles and so the model we’ve been running with is pretty resilient,” he told me when I asked how he had improved things compared with the early stages. “What is stronger is people signing up and using the service, proving wrong the naysayers who said that no one would want to buy solar panels in this way and that bitcoin was a fad.”
The skyrocketing price of bitcoin has also led to larger-than-expected transaction fees, meaning he’s had to adjust the funding process a bit. But Cambridge is confident that will work itself out. In the meantime, the site and service are live, as are the initial successful installations. If you’d like to bring a little light into someone’s life and maybe make a buck off it, you can sign up at The Sun Exchange now.


Caspar Health, a startup launching today at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin, wants to make access to rehabilitative care easier and more accessible. The digital platform allows doctors to assign customizable therapy treatment plans to patients following an injury, surgery or other medical event, like a stroke, which patients can then access using an app on their mobile device.
The company was founded two years ago by longtime friends Maximilian Michels, and serial entrepreneurs Benjamin Pochhammer and Maximilian von Waldenfels, who sold their last company Food Express to Takeaway.com.
Michels, who has a background in healthcare, came up with the idea for Caspar Health because he saw a need to make first-class healthcare something that’s available to anyone – even if limited by geography or a lack of therapy providers in the patient’s area.
“He realized, via a research study [the hospital he managed] did with a large reimbursement stakeholder, that the way rehabilitation has been conducted is still very ineffective, and there’s no digital component integrated into the patient treatment procedure,” von Waldenfels explains.

To use the system, a doctor or therapist would log on to the platform after seeing the patient and confirming their diagnosis. For example, they may want to assign specific treatments or therapies for someone recovering from knee surgery, back pain or a heart attack. After entering the patient’s information and medical condition, Caspar Health automatically generates a treatment plan for the patient, which the doctor can then optionally customize to meet the patient’s needs.
These treatment plans are created in-house and offer everything from instructional videos (e.g. physical therapy/exercises, tutorials on how to use crutches, etc.), to information on the illness or injury itself. Patients can read the information and watch videos from a mobile application that runs on their phone or tablet, and give feedback about how the exercise or other therapy went to allow doctors to adjust the plans accordingly.
At launch, there are some 1,000 videos available and the system is in use in 64 hospitals across Germany, including a couple of the largest hospital groups. This makes Caspar Health accessible by over 100,000 potential patients. So far, 6,500 have signed up.
Caspar Health is sold as an enterprise software-as-a-service subscription, where facilities pay a monthly subscription fee as well as a fee per patient. Notably, Caspar Health’s treatments are reimbursed by the largest reimbursement stakeholders, meaning the medical facilities are receiving the same amount of money per session as a face-to-face treatment.
The larger goal is to make Caspar Health available to other markets outside Germany, especially those where there’s a large population that doesn’t have access to therapists and doctors for their condition, or who can’t afford in-office visits.
Today, Caspar Health is also launching internationally, and is available in four languages: English, German, Mandarin, and Cantonese.
The startup is backed by 3 million euro in seed funding from Atlantic Labs (Christophe Maire), Think.Health, and other family offices.


New research from Draper into technology that could build a self-return system into spacesuits would produce a significant leap in astronaut safety during activities in outer space. Draper researchers filed a patent for an automated ‘take-me-home’ feature that would turn spacesuits from mostly manual affairs to something that could guide itself back to safe shelter in the case of an accident.
Once triggered, either by the astronaut themselves, or by another crew member or even ground station staff, the spacesuit’s built-in thrusters would autonomously guide itself back to a designated safe location. It’s designed around the challenges of navigating in outer space, where there is no GPS, and it has to take into account conditions that might impact survivability, including remaining oxygen level and fuel available for the thrusters.
Even if the system doesn’t have to take over entirely, it can provide guidance to an astronaut inside using visual cues on a HUD that shows up on the spacesuit visor. It can also provide audio ‘turn-by-turn’ directions, as well as even tactile feedback to provide proper instructions in case something happens during extra-vehicular activity (EVA) and there’s cause for deviation from the standard plan.
It’s not just for space, however – this could also find application in fields including emergency response, and skydiving, Draper says. Plus, it could be combined with some of its other research into spacesuit tech, including boots and gloves that pass on sensor data to the wearer within to give them heightened senses.
Often, current spacesuits are essentially hindrances to their wearers, but Draper and others are working on making them augmentation devices, rather than obstacles to be dealt with and worked around. That’ll be a big help if we ever want to make a go of colonizing Mars, or even of properly commercializing space closer to home.


European VC firm Index Capital is just over two decades old and has 200+ companies in its investment portfolio at this point — but it’s still got work to do on the gender balance front.
“It should be half,” agreed general partner Jan Hammer, discussing the company’s gender balance here at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin.
Session moderator Josh Constine had pointed out that the team page on Index’s website includes just two women…
 
“I think we need to revise our website,” responded Hammer initially, noting that Index in fact has five women working as investment professionals — two as principles — though its nine partners are all men.
But he added: “Arguably it could be improved.”
Hammer said Index has instigated a policy that’s aimed at trying to accelerate better gender balance.
“For every position and for every hiring decision we have to have equality of gender. And secondly for every finalist interview we have to have at least one of each gender,” he said, noting the policy has been put in place “in the last couple of years”.
“Obviously it’s a topic that applies to far broader than just the venture industry. It’s the financial industry at large. But also our portfolio companies.”
“If you look at associate principles, we’re pretty much there,” added Index’s Martin Mignot, who was also on the panel. “You have to understand that it takes six, seven, eight years to go from associate to partner — so it just takes time for that to trickle down.”

They were also asked about the issue of sexual harassment which has blown up publicly at multiple companies in the tech space this year, including some investment firms. Index itself has never had to face any enforcement situations relating to sexual harassment, they said.
“The one difference between Index and maybe some other partnerships is that we work as a team and no portfolio company is ever sort of stranded with just one point of contact,” said Hammer discussing the harassment issue. “We operate with a system of a shadow partner on every deal. So you always have two partners.”
During the session they also discussed differences between the investment ecosystem in Europe vs the US, and touched on some areas of investment focus — including fintech, where Hammer noted that some functions that have historically been beyond the reach of startups “because of capital intensity” are now coming into range.
“One stat to quote: The number 50 bank ranked by market cap in the world has a $38BN value. Which sort of shows how far the ceiling is,” he said on that, adding: “The sky’s the limit… There’s everything to play for.”
On technologies that Index views as ‘underhyped’, Mignot noted that the firm has been doing more in the health tech space — flagging its investment in Swedish telemedicine app startup KRY, for example.
“It feels like the very early days of fintech,” he said. “Maybe where you’re still trying to find your way around a very complex regulatory environment — but things are slowly opening up, and government are maybe now becoming more favorable, creating some sandbox environments where startups can start to test and iterate.
“And it feels like that’s one that’s going to open massively in the next few years.”


Star Wars has had a strange smartphone history. The franchise was a no brainer for the Motorola Droid — Verizon actually had to license the name from Lucasfilm, so it follows that a few R2-D2 handsets followed over the years. More recently, Sharp, of all companies, scored the rights in time for Rogue One.
With The Last Jedi a mere weeks away, it’s OnePlus’s time to shine, with a Star Wars-branded edition of the 5T, first spotted by The Verge. The Shenzhen-based company is another odd choice — it’s hardly a household name, after all. And the OnePlus 5T Star Wars Limited Edition name isn’t just marketing — at the moment, at least, it appears the phone is only going to be available in India, starting a day before The Last Jedi hits theaters there on December 15.

The 5T is a great budget phone, as we mentioned in our recent review, and it looks like the company hasn’t altered the design language too much to Star Wars it up. There’s a small logo on the rear of the device, and a matching red side button. 
The accompanying video, which debuted at Bengaluru Comic Con, highlights the color theme, which obviously takes a cue from Kylo Ren’s lightsaber — part a likely overall Dark Side focus for the new film. There appears to be limited edition wallpaper on the device — and if past Star Wars phones are any indication, there will be other exclusive content on the phone to further the theme. But even if it doesn’t, again, the 5T is a solid phone, Star Wars or no. 
TheOnePlus 5T Star Wars Limited Edition will be launched at a OnePlus event in Mumbai on December 14 at an event that features all sorts of other Star Wars swag. We’ve reached out to OnePlus to see if the company has plans to launch the phone elsewhere — though the nature of the license on this one might mean no availability for users far, far away.


Roy Bahat
Contributor



Roy Bahat is the head of Bloomberg Beta.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Who will find the first silver unicorn?
Even The Org Chart Is Now Made Of Software



Consciously or not, founders’ attitudes toward money play an enormous role in how they run their startups. These attitudes shape whether to bet on a new line of business, how much to charge a customer, how to handle investor capital, even how to talk to employees about pay.
Not to mention the biggest decision of all: when (or if) to sell.
Picture a first-time founder who grew up with nothing, eating hot dogs every night for dinner because that’s all her family could afford — and imagine her startup takes off.
Compare that to another founder, running an identical startup in a parallel universe — except she went to private school and will one day inherit the big family house.
Now imagine some common startup scenarios: a recruit who asks for a few million in equity to join the company, an acquisition offer that makes the founders one percenters, or an employee insisting on flying business class on a long trip. Those two founders might see those situations much differently.

Despite this, it’s taboo for investors to ask about a founder’s own money, and for understandable reasons. Many founders worry about revealing they come from a background of less — not everyone has a mom and dad ready to pay rent in the quest to get “ramen profitable.”
It’s scary when you’re already in the vulnerable position of fundraising to consider making yourself more vulnerable by sharing that you have needs. It could be a relative who has medical bills, a parent who is in debt, a bank balance with no commas. Founders who come from difficult backgrounds shoulder so many other burdens — this stacks on another, and it feels safer to stay silent.
A founder’s attitude toward money becomes the dark matter of the startup universe. Its gravity pulls on companies, guiding founder choices, and yet we can never quite make it out.
If we can find a way to be transparent about this (and our fund tries to be an extremist on transparency in the name of building trust), it might help.
A frank discussion about money can especially help founders who are in need. Investors can alleviate financial pressures, long before an exit, freeing up the founder to focus on the business.
Doing so benefits investors as much as founders — after all, a company’s a lot more likely to succeed if its founder isn’t stressing about personal issues.
Why should we scale the “Great Wall of Finance?”
There’s a whole list of ways a VC can help a founder struggling with financial needs. At first, by investing enough that a founder can cover rent to work on the startup full time. Later, by increasing salary, committing to invest more money in case things go sideways with a future financing round. Or by offering the s-word: Secondary.
Investors will sometimes do so-called “secondary” transactions (i.e. buying shares from the founder instead of putting the money into the company in an ordinary “primary” investment).
Why?

To alleviate a founder’s fear of loss: “Hey, I made this thing, and it’s finally valuable! What if I end up with nothing?” It’s schmuck insurance.
To remove a founder’s financial distractions: “If I didn’t worry about my student loan bill every month I’d be a lot calmer.”
To sustain a founder’s drive: “This startup thing is already worth it! Let’s trek onward…”

One threshold moment to watch: when an early acquisition offer gives a founder their “first shot” to make enough money to pay for a house and a future venture. (This often follows the “Rule of 8,” where the first offer that gives a founder $8 million in the bank is the one that tempts them most.) This might be a moment for VCs to offer secondary.
If you feel burdened by your student debt, maybe we can help you (and we’ve seen secondary that pays off a founder’s credit cards). If you’re caring for an aging relative, we can talk through a solution. If you dream of making enough money to buy your parents a house, that dream will drive your choices.
Here’s the rub: To help you, we have to climb the Great Wall of Finance. As your investors, we need to know your attitudes toward money. How much do you have, generally speaking? How do you see your financial future? What do you expect?
When can you start that conversation with your VC? In theory, we investors — for whom fundraising conversations happen every single day — should make it safe for you. In the real world, where Twitter gives any bozo 280 characters, you may need to vet the situation, gingerly.

The egg toss approach
Are you shuddering at the thought of disclosing all this money stuff to your VCs?
Investors bring all kinds of voodoo to money matters. Some believe founders who take secondary aren’t committed. Others will beg you to take money off the table so they can buy more of your company, then accuse you of pulling a bank heist. There are VCs who might use your private details against you if they ever want to make a management change.
Personal money is taboo in part because founders have every reason to fear disclosing such vulnerable details to VCs. We VCs need to earn the right to know you.
Instead of barreling full-disclosure ahead, consider the egg toss approach, where you start with a little lob and gradually “throw” further and further.
Start with a personal fact or two, and watch whether the investor seems to care. Then share a more financial fact — for example, a founder once talked to me about a role model in her life, who took some money off the table, and that opened the door for us to ask her views on money (if, instead, your investor seems to press play on a mental playlist of preconceived notions, take note).
If the investor seems open, cross Go (that’s Monopoly Go, not AI Go), collect $200 and share a detail of your personal financial situation. You could talk about your parents’ professions and income when you grew up, how you handle your household budgeting, and where you like to spend your money or why you save.
If you feel safe, maybe it’s time to trust them with the Big Talk. This could be right before you accept investment terms. “Before we get into business together for a long time, do you want to understand how I think about my own money?”
You might end up talking about how much money you have — in savings, Ether or whatever — or if you’re in debt; how much you need to cover your “personal burn rate;” or even just what financial success means for you. Is it about zeroing out your debt, paying for your kid’s special medical needs or about never flying commercial again?
Move carefully — money is a strange trigger for people.
Since we started our fund, we’ve tried to have as honest a relationship as possible with the people we back. As a matter of principle, we want all founders in our portfolio to live sustainably, so they can think about the long term. After all, Snapchat didn’t become a $15 billion company by selling early to Facebook so Evan and Bobby could buy pads in the Hollywood Hills (and we’ve now done secondary even in some seed rounds, under certain conditions).
Discussions about founders’ economic backgrounds do happen today — it’s just that they happen (needlessly) awkwardly, and often too late. “Hey, private question. If I take this next funding round, how does that change the exit strategy? What if we get a $50 million offer in a few months, can I still sell the company?” It’s a strange fact of our business that it’s considered inappropriate for a founder to admit that he or she would be thrilled to earn millions of dollars for a couple of years work — that, somehow, they should only be content with much more.
You may want to consider having that conversation about money when the investment has fewer commas — because it only gets harder as the stakes rise.
………
Thank you to Sara, who is the first person who ever planted these questions in my head and whose wisdom on them is responsible for 150 percent of what I know; to Ted Wang, for telling me about the Rule of 8; and Bloomberg Beta’s portfolio founders, for reminding me about all the ways in which This is Hard. Written with help from Carmel DeAmicis.

Featured Image: rogistok/Getty Images


Code.org, the non-profit organization that aims to increase access to computer science education, has raised $12 million in philanthropic funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Infosys Foundation USA  and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
The announcement came as part of a Computer Science Education Week kickoff event in San Mateo. Meanwhile, eight states, 76 school districts and 102 organizations nationwide made pledges to expand access to computer science education to millions of students.
Those who made the pledge include Florida Governor Rick Scott, who made a $15 million investment to increase opportunities for middle and high school students and California Lt. Governor Gavin Newsom, who launched a Computer Science for California campaign to bring CS education to all students in California by 2025.
“California is the tech capital of the country and home to Silicon Valley, but we don’t teach our
students the foundational skills to access the jobs of the future,” Newsom said in a press release. “Right now most schools in California don’t offer any computer science classes and sadly, that disparity is punctuated by striking gender and racial gaps,” Lt. Governor Newsom said. “I’m thrilled to announce the launch of CSforCA to make sure every California student has access to high-quality computer science education.”
Code.org is not the only organization working to increase access to computer science education. Black Girls Code, for example, aims to introduce young black girls to computer science and teach them how to code. In September, Black Girls Code received a $255,000 donation from General Motors as part of a collaborative effort to advance science, technology, engineering and mathematics education in Detroit.
Another organization taking part in CS Education Week is Vidcode, a Y Combinator-backed startup that aims to make coding more accessible to teens. This week, Vidcode is offering women in tech webinars at schools and recently launched a new intermediate hour of code activity called “Code the Eclipse.”


Last month Qualcomm rejected a $70 per share acquisition offer from Broadcom — but the rival chipmaker isn’t stepping away. Today it’s announced it’s nominated a slate of eleven directors for Qualcomm’s board.
The move puts pressure on Qualcomm’s board to engage with Broadcom’s approach by paving the way for its own shareholders to vote for a takeover which the board already rebuffed.
Qualcomm is due to hold an annual meeting of stockholders on March 6, 2018.
Broadcom says its earlier acquisition offer represents a 28% premium over the closing price of Qualcomm’s common stock on November 2, 2017, aka the last unaffected trading day prior to media speculation regarding a potential transaction; and a premium of 33% to Qualcomm’s unaffected 30-day volume-weighted average price.
But Qualcomm’s board continue to argue the offer “dramatically” undervalues the company.
In a statement confirming receipt of a slate of candidates from Broadcom today, Qualcomm also played up regulatory uncertainty around the transaction, and urged shareholders to support the existing board of “world-class directors” — emphasizing that nine are independent and four have been added in the last three years.
It further described the move as “a blatant attempt to seize control of the Qualcomm Board in order to advance Broadcom’s acquisition agenda” — arguing that the nominees are “inherently conflicted given Broadcom’s desire to acquire Qualcomm in a manner that dramatically undervalues Qualcomm to Broadcom’s benefit”.
“No company in the industry is better positioned than Qualcomm in mobile, IoT, automotive, edge computing and networking and to lead the transition to 5G,” said Tom Horton, Qualcomm’s presiding director, in a statement. “Qualcomm stockholders expect a Board that will support this innovation while evaluating objectively the full range of opportunities available to maximize value for all Qualcomm stockholders.”
In its own statement, Broadcom’s Hock Tan, president and CEO, said the company’s “strong preference” is to engage in what he described as “a constructive dialogue with Qualcomm”. But he also reiterated that the rival has entirely rebuffed its approach thus far.
“We have repeatedly attempted to engage with Qualcomm, and despite stockholder and customer support for the transaction, Qualcomm has ignored those opportunities. The nominations give Qualcomm stockholders an opportunity to voice their disappointment with Qualcomm’s directors and their refusal to engage in discussions with us,” he said.
“In light of the significant value our proposal provides for Qualcomm stockholders, we believe Qualcomm stockholders would be better served by new independent, highly qualified nominees who are committed to maximizing value and acting in the best interests of Qualcomm stockholders.” 
The full list of Broadcom’s nominees can be found here.
If the nominees are elected, Broadcom added that it would support a decision by them to increase the size of the Qualcomm Board and reappoint Mark D. McLaughlin, Anthony J. “Tony” Vinciquerra and Jeffrey W. Henderson as directors.

Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


Thanks to technology, making an audio recording of a meeting is a trivially easy task these days. While speech to text services can help tackle the tedium of transcription, this just invites a slew of new problems: The need to clean up and confirm transcripts. To verify who said what. Not to mention having to ensure everyone consented to being recorded — and gets a timely copy of the meeting minutes afterwards.
On the value-add side, a manager might also wish for an easy way to generate a summary of key points after a meeting. And a tool that can automatically list any tasks so they don’t have to go back and pick them out of their notes. Analytics around meeting productivity could also be useful — helping answer questions like: Are my meetings running to time? Which speakers tend to dominate? How many decisions are being made and actioned?
These are the sorts of assistance capabilities that US-incorporated startup Reason8 has in the works for its AI-powered transcription service, which is launching out of beta today from the TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin stage.
Down the line the team reckons the tech will also be able to offer users linguistic and voice analysis — with the potential to act like a coach and offer individual guidance on improving in-meeting performance.
“In-person meetings are the least digitized field in personal communications,” says co-founder Vlad Belyaev, discussing the idea behind the product. “It is a huge market. All of us make meetings, and make meeting notes, write meeting summaries, meeting minutes.
“Our first niche is to focus on managers who spend a large amount of time on making meeting minutes and on tracking the tasks that they gave to their employees.”
The target user for Reason8 is a middle manager who has three to four meetings per day and thus sinks a lot of time into distilling hot air into summaries and trackable tasks. “We are trying to make their life easier and more productive,” is his concise summary of the product goal.
At least two smartphones are required to record any one meeting via the app. This both provides enough audio input data for the speaker-separating AI to work with, and also means multiple meeting participants can participate in grabbing the record of the meeting if they wish. So it aims to help with the consent and ownership issue, too.
Belyaev says the idea for the app came about after he’d worked as a secretary and executive assistant — and spent a lot of time compiling and sharing meeting minutes. The challenge of keeping meeting participants who were spread across multiple timezones in the loop was another pain-point that fed the app idea.



The team incorporated in Delaware in May 2016 and in November last year raised $1.2 million in early-stage funding from Russian business angels to help fund development of their MVP.
The app is iOS only for now, it being easier to calibrate microphones across the more homogenous iPhone hardware than Android’s diverse range of devices. But an Android version is planned for next year, says Belyaev.
Reason8 is using Google’s cloud speech API for the speech to text conversion of meeting audio captured via its app — so the first thing to note is it’s not trying to replicate competitive and robust speech recognition technology that’s already available in the market.
Rather, its focus is on making that existing technology more useful in the context of meetings and managers. Its special sauce is a deep learning model trained to be able to identify different voices and thus to separate out speakers within a transcript — meaning the user doesn’t just get handed one big block of text.
This works without users needing to train it, according to Belyaev, who says the AI is able to separate speakers from the very first meeting. (And once individual users have identified themselves in the app it can link their name with their voice footprint to include their real name in meeting transcripts, too.)
“We use deep learning for better understanding your digital footprint of your own voice,” he notes. “We make it in a fully unsupervised way. So we do not need data for learning to distinguish speakers between each other.”
The second bit of Reason8’s proprietary tech is a natural language processing engine that it’s using to automatically identify specific tasks agreed on in the meeting.
This engine, which the team trained using open data sets, was developed out of an earlier product they deployed in the Russian market — aimed at helping companies improve the performance of their customer support services.
“We developed our own natural language understanding engine. One of the main features of this engine was and is that we are able to work with a very little amount of data,” he says, adding: “Very few amount of businesses have data to train the model. That was why we created the solution which is able to identify the sense of phrases.
“We are able to classify this meaning and identify — for instance — tasks from decisions and from ideas.”
How does the system avoid getting confused by the codified word salad that can get thrown around in meetings? By focusing on analyzing phrases rather than individual words, he says on that.
“We don’t analyze exact words — we analyze the whole phrases,” he tells TechCrunch. “That is why we analyze the meaning of the phrases. We’ve been developing our natural language engine for the last year and this gave us opportunity to better understand the meaning of exact phrases which people mention.”
The initial focus on extracting tasks is also a way for the team to shrink and tackle the linguistic context challenge that’s at the core of what they’re trying to do. “Tasks mainly have a very clear intent so you can mention that someone has to do something with a current deadline and this is easier to identify,” he says. “We decided to focus on a very narrow problem — so identifying tasks and then later decisions and ideas.”
The ambition is for the NLP engine to get smart enough to be able to automatically create meeting summaries in future too. For that another current feature of the app is key: A highlight button that users can manually tap on within the app to flag important sections of a meeting while it’s going on. This tells the tech to take note. Any highlighted portions will then be incorporated into the meeting report it delivers.
But these manual highlights are also a learning signal for the tech. Belyaev says it’s feeding them into the model to help it get better at understanding vocal intonation during important moments in meetings.
“With this information we are able to capture data-sets that defines not only by the meaning but also by intonation, by context that you say something important,” he explains. “When I say something important i’m trying to be precise, I’m trying to make pauses and to emphasize the intonation on it.
“So with all this context information — so not only from the text which we already have huge experience on, but also from the sounds — so we are able to identify better and to give better quality for our summarization engine.”
“Looking further, our vision is to provide for people a tool with which they could make meeting minutes and meeting summaries easily and a digitally enabled path to gather these self-enforcing data sets,” he adds. “So if people are using our product they improve their productivity with drafts of meeting minutes, then they make their own meeting minutes and send it to their colleagues.”
For now, the engine can identify tasks. Soon — “in the next few weeks” — it’ll also be able to classify “ideas and decisions”. But it isn’t yet capable of serving up fully fledged meeting summarizes. Instead users get a brief report with any manual highlights they trigger.
Belyaev says the plan is to add integrations with other communications tools — such as Google Hangouts, Zoom and Slack — in order to “capture more information to improve our summarization engine”. And they’re penciling in Spring 2018 for the full AI-powered meeting summarization feature to launch, he adds.
They also plan to integrate with existing project management systems to further expand the utility of the product. So, for example, a task automatically extracted from a meeting transcript could also be automatically inputted into a PMS.
“A transcript is great but for business in person meetings, meeting minutes and meeting summarizes add more value than just a transcript,” he argues. “Because, yes a transcript gives more value than just a record but what is even better is a summary and automatic task extraction and further integrations with project management systems like Asana or Jira… So it automatically creates tasks in project management systems. So it would be really great for improving productivity for managers and I think for many other potential users.”
Though he also emphasizes that the system is not going to be 100 percent perfect at parsing context — so also isn’t going to be able to entirely replace assistants. Rather it’s intended as a productivity-boosting aid. 
The speaker separated transcription feature works for any language already supported by Google’s speech to text tech, according to Belyaev.
But the pre-trained models that power task and (soon) decision identification have been trained on English language speech so aren’t currently able to support additional languages. Though he says they are planning to train models on data-sets in other languages in future to expand support.



The team’s first commercial push for the product is focused on the US market. Pricing is freemium for now — with a limited usage basic version of the app and a pro subscription for those who want unlimited use and all the features.
The initial target is B2C earlier adopters who may be most comfortable prioritizing productivity gains over and above the privacy concerns associated with a technology that currently works by streaming audio data to the cloud for processing. 
On the privacy front, Record8’s website states that it’s encrypting the data in transit and claims not to be storing any meeting data. But even so there are major privacy considerations and risks given it’s uploading recordings of private and potentially sensitive business meetings to the cloud. Risks that make its the current offering unsuitable for many businesses.
Belyaev says the team does intend to address the wider enterprise market in future — such as by offering a bespoke private cloud version of the system — but is starting with B2C and consumers first to push for traction to verify market demand. They’ll also be able to use the data of early adopters to continue honing their models to improve the product.
“In our plans, in the next half a year, we are aiming at enterprises,” he says. “If enterprises will want our solution on a paid basis — so they might like to make an in house private cloud solution with analytics, recommendations and all features of our product, so we are ready to provide it.
“We know for management consultant firms they would prefer to keep all the information on their servers or some private cloud like Amazon but they like to use their own solution for privacy concerns. So yes we will be able to provide it, we’re interested in providing it but we’d like to start with the B2C segment and with end customers by providing them an app for meeting summarization and transcription.”


It took Barbara Timm-Brock one near-death experience and three career changes to bring her to the stage at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin to launch eTrack Tech.
Timm-Brock wants to make sure equipment functions properly so that employees are safer and logistics companies can save money on one of their biggest expenses — the equipment they use.
The device that eTrack Tech sells looks like a router with an array of multifunctional sensors. That streams data to a hub device on a facility’s property that will collect the data and analyze it.
All of that data (which measures power, hydraulics and fluids) is transmitted over a cellular network to the hub.
So far, the technology works with generators (which Timm-Brock likens to a diesel truck with no wheels), HVAC systems and forklifts, which look a lot like other logistics and construction equipment, including backhoes and excavators.
eTrack Tech charges $300 per year per device and monitoring costs.
For logistics companies, the monitoring equipment can both save lives and money. According to Timm-Brock, companies spend roughly $144 billion per year on logistics equipment maintenance, almost the same they spend on vehicle and equipment purchasing ($156 billion).
“We have created this business of making fleet management more efficient,” says Timm-Brock. “While we have a lot of prospective exits for this, I really just want to make stuff work better.”
The path that led Timm-Brock — a good Minnesotan — to our Berlin stage, began in her father’s workshop, where, from an early age, she helped him with his hobby as a gunsmith. Professionally the head of the prototype lab at Unisys, Arthur Timm was a master craftsman and an amateur gunsmith who had Barbara work in his shop.
“I remember reloading shotgun shells. He had me working with gun stocks and I worked with gunpowder,” Timm-Brock told me.
That early experience with dangerous chemicals instilled a respect for process and safety that ran through Timm-Brock’s education as a chemical engineer and through her first job at Pillsbury as a process engineer.










It was while working at Pillsbury that Timm-Brock had the experience that would underscore her respect for safety and would plant the seed for eTrack Tech’s products and services. While renovating a new house with her husband in a Minnesota winter, Timm-Brock was caught in an upstairs room that had filled with carbon monoxide — a result of a series of mishaps caused by faulty repairs to the house’s heating and cooling systems and chimney.
Timm-Brock was hospitalized, comatose and would have died if she hadn’t been discovered by her family.
“After I almost died, I decided life was too short to put up with BS,” she says. “I wrote a mission statement to myself that I am here on this earth to help people and businesses grow and thrive.”
She left Pillsbury a few years later and took on a series of jobs in the food services industry, including leadership stints at Pizza Hut, Olive Garden, Cinnabon and Church’s Chicken. Those jobs culminated in a career at Aramark, which was half food services and half facilities management and engineering.
Aramark was where Timm-Brock was exposed to the dangers of large industrial vehicles — which can cause at least 100 deaths a year because of faulty maintenance and accidents.
Food services was Timm-Brock’s first career, but the experiences in facilities management brought her the attention of head hunters in education who recruited her to her second — working at the Stratford School (a high-end science, technology, engineering and math focused group of schools in the San Francisco and Los Angeles area).
“I’m brought in to scale something and fix it,” says Timm-Brock. “And I was working at Stratford and saw that maintenance is a nightmare. I sent a guy to do an audit and we pulled out work orders that were two years old.”
The problem, as Timm-Brock saw it (and sees it), is that small and medium-sized businesses don’t have the same capacity to spend money on monitoring and managing their equipment — sometimes vital equipment.
For instance, the schools depended on their HVAC systems and are legally required to maintain certain temperatures in classrooms (in certain states). At Stratford, their HVAC systems were never working, always breaking down, and supplementary systems had to be used to ensure classroom temps.
After the Stratford School was acquired and Timm-Brock had a chance to review her options, she decided to venture out on career number three in 2015 — starting her own company.
Since that time, she has been working with several advisers to develop a technology that can be installed cheaply and simply on any vehicle or piece of industrial equipment with an array of proprietary sensors and a way to communicate information from that equipment to a centralized hub.



Initially, because she had been most closely exposed to problems with HVAC, Timm-Brock started the business working on those heating and cooling systems that bedeviled the Stratford School. But after a test-case at a facility services shop in Arizona, Timm-Brock was asked whether she could expand the monitoring to other industrial systems — like forklifts.
After surveying 42,000 work order requests for forklift maintenance, Timm-Brock and a team of co-workers developed a taxonomy for what their sensors should monitor, and began deploying their monitoring service on industrial vehicles — and it worked.
“From forklifts, we now do generators and are looking at other construction equipment that could use the forklift unit,” Timm-Brock tells me.


Leveraging some “mind boggling math” introduced as an update onto the Ethereum blockchain only a few months ago, QEDit is launching its product on our Battlefield stage at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin.
The company, which takes its name from the Latin phrase quod erat demonstrandum (which was what would have been demonstrated) relies on the principle of zero knowledge proofs to provide audit and due diligence services for financial institutions.
One of the problems that’s been slowing down blockchain adoption in businesses is how to share information based on proprietary data. Companies don’t want to share a lot of information with competitors, but need to have ways to ensure that the information they’re receiving is correct.
The QEDit service allows that on the blockchain. Creating ways for multi-party transactions to engage in queries that prove certain facts about a business, without ever accessing the data underlying those proofs.
This differs from a “regular” blockchain where every transaction is sent to all the nodes on the network and all of those nodes record the rules and value of the transaction on a public ledger. With QEDit, only the user runs the rules on their own data. The only thing that anyone else on the chain sees are the proofs.
One of the company’s co-founders is Aviv Zohar, a researcher at Hebrew University whose work was cited by none other than Ethereum project developer VItalik Butarin in his early writing about cryptocurrency. Zohar has been working in cryptography for years and his work is critical to the very “mind boggling math” that makes zero knowledge proofs possible.
Helping him round out the team at QEDit are Jonathan Rouach and Ruben Arnold, two serial entrepreneurs who first met in 1999 while studying at Technion University in Israel.
“We saw that there were two conflicting trends. More and more data is accumulated in the enterprise world and companies are trying to keep it for themselves and monetize it and companies are trying to keep it for themselves but there are instances… on the one hand you want to keep the data for yourself and on the other hand you want to share the data with other parties,” says Rouach of the idea behind QEDit. “This is what we built. It’s the possibility of sharing proofs about the data without sharing the data itself.”







While Arnold pursued a career in consulting in Paris at McKinsey & Co., Rouach stayed in Israel working in electrical engineering. But around 2012 he became interested in a novel idea percolating out from the edges of the internet called bitcoin (it was a post on Slashdot, Rouach says).
In 2013, he co-founded Bits of Gold with his brother Yuval Rouach and Arnold as one of the first bitcoin exchanges to launch in Israel.
“It was the technology,” that first attracted Rouach to the Bitcoin bomb that was exploding on the Internet. “It’s a beautiful solution to a problem that I didn’t even think of… How can you create trust between people without central coordination?”
Rouach’s fascination with that concept of anonymous trust is a thread that runs through his future endeavors as well — businesses that all attempt to refine that notion of anonymous, verified trust.
“Every fact on the blockchain is mathematically verified,” says Rouach. “That is enough to know what is the state of the whole world.”
While bitcoin may have been Rouach’s gateway drug into the wild world of cryptobusiness, he quickly came to the conclusion that it wasn’t the technology to actually fulfill the promise of expanding on that notion of anonymous trust and verification.
That’s because the security issues around bitcoin had yet to be resolved. So Rouach launched a second company called LedgerLock, which provided security services for a range of digital assets.
Once LedgerLock was sold to Digital Assets Holdings, during the split between the application of blockchain technology to business problems which ignored the push to tokenization, and a more public-facing movement that was predicated on token sales.
So QEDit is the next step on the road to a fully cryptographic, nearly automated transaction system. The idea is to replace the army of auditors that are involved in providing due diligence and oversight for negotiations and transactions that involve proprietary information.



Surprisingly (or maybe unsurprisingly), audit firms, financial services companies, and large telecoms themselves are on board for the experiment. QEDit has partnerships with Deloitte, BNP Paribas and British Telecom for its first product called QEDit Enhanced Diligence.
Unlike the rash of companies based on blockchain that have gone the coin sale route, Rouach tells me that his firm has no intention of launching an ICO. “We’re completely on the enterprise blockchain side and what we want to do is ensure that companies can build trust between them without having to reveal their private data.”
The company sells the service on a per use basis and as part of the beta launch here at Disrupt the QEDit is offering two free years of service to customers that sign up for its beta.
Rouach says there’s a big market for this kind of work, with roughly $6 billion floating out there in the rating market alone.
It’s hard to understate how radical the change this technology could bring to financial services actually could be.
“You never had a peer-to-peer way of an investor or an acquirer or an auditor knocking on the door of the company and say prove me this, and to know what they’re giving back is accurate,” says Rouach.


Automakers are laying the groundwork for a future in which electric cars are omnipresent – and at least as common a sight on roadways as traditional gas-powered vehicles. Last month, a group of car OEMs including Ford, BMW, Daimler, and Volkswagen Group created a new joint-venture called ‘Ionity’ to build out a charing network, starting with a series of fast-charging stations to electrify European roadways.
Now, we know how they’ll be choosing sites for the placement of these stations, and it’s a sensible move that involves benefits both for Ionity and for its new partners – gas station operators and oil companies.
Ionity’s new partners (via Roadshow) are Shell, OMV and Circle K, who will be providing strategic sites for Ionity to build out its charging network. This is definitely a situation where it doesn’t make any sense to reinvent the wheel, since fueling stations have obviously already done the hard work of identifying sensible roadside spots at which they can establish their locations.
Shell will be working with Autobahn Tanks & Rast in Germany, an operator that has 700 gas/service stations in its network, while OMV and Circle K, along with Shell-branded stations, will all cover a total of 18 countries across Europe for the new charging network, which eventually hopes to span a total of 400 locations Europe-wide.
Ionity hopes to get its fledgling network up to 50 stations in total by early next year, and taking a shortcut with site partners that have existing roadside facility really does seem like it should help them meet their deployment targets and achieve reach quickly.
This also gives roadside station operators a way to transition to an electric-friendly future while keeping their businesses relatively static in terms of other features of the stations themselves.


A Mumbai-based startup called ftcash is helping small businesses in India move beyond cash. In some cases, it’s also providing loans to fund their operations.
Co-founder Vaibhav Lodha, who demonstrated ftcash on-stage today at TechCrunch’s Startup Battlefield, said he first got the idea from his newspaper vendor, who complained that none of his customers seemed to have the cash at home to pay him. The issue was serious enough to create a cashflow problem for the vendor, prompting him to consider going to a loan shark.
So ftcash allows any merchant with a feature phone and a bank account to accept a variety of cashless payments — including credit cards, debit cards, mobile wallets and PayPal — after just a few minutes of setup.
Lodha said he reaches these merchants by hiring a small team in each market, and then looking for channel partners and other businesses that he can work with to increase distribution.
There are already 25,000 merchants signed up, and the company has been growing 30 percent month-over-month for the past 18 months. Most of these merchants don’t have any point-of-sale hardware beforehand, so after they sign up with ftcash, the startup ends up processing between 10 and 50 percent of their purchases.
Lodha also pointed to India’s recent move to abolish certain rupee notes as a sign that there’s a broader shift away from cash (even if the effects of the policy are still being debated).
And as already mentioned, ftcash isn’t just providing payments technology. Lodha said that these merchants often have trouble getting loans from banks because limited financial records make it difficult for lenders to create “a credible risk model.”



But thanks to the payments data that ftcash is already collecting, Lodha said his team can make the loans safely and intelligently. The data also allows the company to see when a borrower might be struggling financially, so “if a merchant is going south, we can be the first in line to get our money back.”
To be clear, Lodha’s startup isn’t actually providing the capital for these loans — that comes from an undisclosed financial partner. From the merchant’s perspective, however, its relationship is entirely with ftcash. The loans usually range from $1,000 to $20,000, with interest rates between 18 and 30 percent. Lodha acknowledged that those rates might seem high, but he said that compared to loan sharks who charge between 50 and 300 percent, “It’s a really cheap loan.”
Lodha is also starting to think about expanding internationally and is looking at Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Latin America as possibilities. In keeping with the company’s growth strategy, he’s interested in selling the technology to international partners who might want to offer it under their own branding.
The company is currently participating in the MasterCard Start Path program. It’s backed by PayPal, IvyCap Ventures and others.


For the first time, Facebook is opening up to children under age 13 with a privacy-focused app designed to neutralize child predator threats that plague youth-focused competitors like Snapchat. Rolling out today on iOS in the U.S., “Messenger Kids” lets parents download the app on their child’s phone or tablet, create a profile for them and approve friends and family with whom they can text and video chat from the main Messenger app.
Tweens don’t sign up for a Facebook account and don’t need a phone number, but can communicate with other Messenger and Messenger Kids users parents sign-off on, so younger siblings don’t get left out of the family group chat. “We’ve been working closely with the FTC so we’re lockstep with them. ‘This works’, they said,” Facebook product management director Loren Cheng tells me. “In other apps, they can contact anyone they want or be contacted by anyone,” Facebook’s head of Messenger David Marcus notes.
Special proactive detection safety filters prevent children from sharing nudity, sexual content or violence, while a dedicated support team will respond quickly to reported or flagged content. Facebook even manually sifted Giphy to build a kid-friendly version of the GIF-sharing engine. And with childish augmented reality masks and stickers, video calls with grandma could be a lot more fun and a lot less silent or awkward.

Facebook won’t be directly monetizing Messenger Kids, automatically migrating kids to real accounts when they turn 13 or collecting data so that it complies with Children’s Online Privacy Protections Act (COPPA) law. But the app could prime kids to become lifelong Facebook users, and lock their families deeply into the platform where they’ll see ads.
“When you think about things at scale that we do to get people to care more about Messenger, this is one that addresses a real need for parents,” say Facebook’s head of Messenger David Marcus. “But the side effect will be that they use Messenger more and create family groups.” Marcus tells me he’s excited about getting his 8-year-old into the family chat alongside his 14- and 17-year-old children.
How Messenger Kids works
It’s important to understand that kids under 13 still can’t sign up for a Facebook account. Instead, parents download the Messenger Kids app to a child’s iPhone or iPad (Android coming soon). Once the parent has authenticated it with their own account, they set up a mini-profile with their kid’s name and photo. Then, using the Messenger Kids bookmark in the main Facebook app, parents can approve anyone who is friends with them as a contact for their kid, like aunts and uncles or godparents. Messenger Kids is interoperable with the main Messenger app, so adults don’t actually have to download the Kids app.

Kids still can’t be found through Facebook search, which protects their privacy. So if a child wants to be able to chat with one of their classmates, their parent must first friend that kid’s parent, and then will see the option to approve that adult’s child as a contact for their own kid. This is by far the most clumsy part of Messenger Kids, and something Facebook might be able to improve with a way for Messenger Kids to let children perhaps photograph a QR code on their playmate’s app to request that their parents connect.
When children open the Messenger Kids app, they’ll see a color-customizable home screen with big tiles representing their existing chat threads and approved contacts, with their last message and the last time they were online. From there, kids can dive instantly into a video chat or text thread with their contacts. No message content is collected for ad targeting (same as Messenger), and there’s no in-app purchases to worry about. Kids can block and unblock their parent-approved contacts.

Facebook hired a special team to develop kid-friendly creative tools, from fidget spinner and dinosaur AR masks to crayon-style stickers. “Video calls become so much more playful with AR,” says Marcus. Sometimes after 5 or 10 minutes it’s really hard to have a sustained conversation with a 7-year-old,” but kids can joke around with Grampa using the selfie filters when they run out of run-on stories to tell them.
Messenger features like location sharing and payments have been stripped out, while the Kids version of Giphy won’t let you search for things like “sex.” Facebook actually manually selected a set of GIFs that kids can use rather than relying on a third-party startup to tag things well enough. Still, a reporting interface written specifically for kids lets them flag anything sketchy to a dedicated support team working 24/7.
One thing that might surprise some people is that there’s no way for parents to secretly spy on what their kids are saying in their chats. Instead, parents have to ask to look at their kids’ screen, which Chung says is a more common behavior pattern. The exception is that if kids report a piece of objectionable content, their parents will be notified but still not shown the content in their own app.

In June, The Information reported Facebook was working on an app for teens called Talk, though that’s a bit different than this pre-teen Messenger Kids app.
While Facebook said in the briefing that the app was designed for kids age 6 to 12, younger kids are allowed on, too. When children turn 13, they won’t instantly have their Messenger Kids profiles turned into real Facebook profiles, nor will they get kicked off Messenger Kids. They’ll still have to build a traditional Facebook account from scratch when they’re ready.
Move slow and research things
Before Facebook wrote any code or drew any designs for the app, it says it started research 18 months ago to find out what kids and parents wanted out of a potential product. It also worked with the National Parent Teacher Association for safety insights and Blue Star Families from the military who have to stay in touch during long deployments.
It found that kids had the right hardware but the wrong software; 93 percent of 6-12-year-olds in the U.S. have access to tablets or smartphones, while 66 percent have their own device, and three out of every five parents surveyed said their kids under 13 use messaging apps, social media or both. But these apps weren’t built for children’s privacy, and instead allow adult strangers to contact or follow kids. Youth favorite Snapchat has reportedly been used by predators to groom kids for sexual exploitation, with authorities saying it’s tough to track perverts because messages disappear.
Most apps say that kids have to be at least 13, but there’s nothing to stop younger children from signing up. That’s true on Facebook too, and it could do more to prevent tweens from signing up. But at least parents have grown to understand Facebook. On Snapchat, where ephemerality can cover evidence of inappropriate contact, or Musical.ly, where kids dance provocatively in front of huge audiences, dangers mount and parents are often clueless.
That’s why it was smart that Facebook tasked Cheng with leading the project. He’d spent the past few years on the “tough experiences” team that handles fake accounts, violent content, sexual exploitation, self-harm and counter-terrorism. He’s used to thinking about worst-case scenarios. Facebook built a whole portal at MessengerKids.com with more information for parents.
Facebook is trying to cross every T and dot every I when it comes to safety with this new product. It would be reckless to invite kids onto a chat app otherwise. Still, it doesn’t have the best track record on unintended consequences, and if it screws this up, the damage and backlash will be massive.

The launch could be a sign that Facebook is growing up. With Facebook almost 14 years old itself, children not yet born when it launched are now allowed on its main app. CEO Mark Zuckerberg just had two kids. So did his lieutenants Chris Cox, CPO, and Andrew Bosworth, head of hardware. It’s hard to think about connecting the world if your products can’t connect your own family.
“When I was in my mid-twenties, you never think you’re going to be gone, ever,” Marcus admits. Now 33, “[Zuckerberg] has been thinking a lot about the future he wants to leave behind for his kids.” Today his company is laying the foundation for an ageless social network.


Onefootball founder and CEO Lucas von Cranach, whose popular football app now has 25 million fans in 200 countries around the world, confirmed on stage today at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin 2017 that his company has raised more funding — including both an unreported Series B and C round. This would bring the startup’s total raise to date to over the $20 million publicly reported.
The founder declined to share the new numbers on stage, but he did note that Adidas was one of the new investors. Von Cranach also noted that he’s very deliberate about raising money. “Raising capital is a necessity to match the goal which you are putting yourself forward,” he said. “We’ve raised some capital, but I always looked at the dilution, valuation and money in the bank triangle.”






For a strategic investor like Adidas, access to Onefootball’s mobile fan base can be more powerful than any mobile initiative they could build on their own. Numerous studies have shown that today’s consumers only use a handful of apps on a regular basis, so the likelihood of them hearing from a favorite brand like Adidas through a dedicated Adidas-branded application is slim to none.
That’s where Onefootball, which von Cranach described as a “Facebook for football without the social element,” aims to come in. Instead of developing a distributed strategy with large followers across social platforms like Facebook and Twitter, von Cranach says Onefootball’s users are directed to return to the app itself. Here, where some 90 percent have opted in to receive push notifications, brands could have a direct channel to their fans.
“We don’t have big followerships on Twitter or Facebook and all of these platforms,” he said. “But we have consumers on the app and website who are constantly coming back.”
The founder counts himself as one of the heaviest users of the app, in fact, spending at least an hour a day in a product he basically built for himself to address his own passions.
But while the company is continuing to grow, with some of its users returning to the app 40 to 50 times per month, there are some areas Onefootball isn’t planning to address, von Cranach noted.
“We won’t build a betting business, we won’t build a merchandise business, and we won’t build a ticketing business, ” he said. Instead, he explained, the company is “building an experience at the top of the funnel” where it can increase the conversions… perhaps for brands like new investor Adidas, for example.


Bradley Tusk has long been known in political circles, including for managing the third campaign of former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg. He went on to make his mark in Silicon Valley by answering a call six years ago from former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick, who recognized he’d have regulatory battles to wage and enlisted Tusk as Uber’s first outside consultant to aid in navigating them.
Fast forward and Tusk, who’d accepted his Uber pay in equity and today oversees both a political strategy firm as well as a venture fund, tells us that he’s cashing out his shares as part of the new investment being made by a SoftBank-led consortium of investors who are buying both primary and secondary shares.
It’s time, he says. “We’ll see where it lands, but I’ve been in this thing forever, and it’s hard to see Uber [go public] for more than 1.5 x at where this lands. It would be an historic IPO, but you’re looking at two-years, plus a [standard] six-month lock-up [post IPO]. Can I do better than 1.5x in my other [investments]? Probably so.”
While Tusk hasn’t worked with Uber in some time, he’s still involved in plenty of regulatory clashes on behalf of other clients. We chatted with him last week to find out which battles he expects to be fighting in 2018.
Some of the issues he envisions getting involved in include:
Dockless bike sharing. “I think it’ll blow up,” says Tusk, and he isn’t using the word to suggest explosive growth, either. “Where the streets are crowded and you already have significant homeless populations, piling up bikes on the ground isn’t going to work. I do think you’ll see regulations enforced against it. It’s hard to see how it becomes ‘natural’ in really dense cities in the U.S.” (Worth noting: Tusk is an investor in Bird, a Santa Monica, Ca.-based scooter-share company whose CEO, Travis VanderZanden, worked previously as Uber’s vice president of driver growth.)
E-sports betting. Today, the U.S. Supreme Court is hearing Christie et al vs NCAA et al, the crux of which is whether the state of New Jersey can legalize sports betting in its state, despite a 1992 federal law that banned sports betting everywhere in the U.S. except Nevada. As Yahoo Finance reported recently, no matter the outcome, the gaming industry is optimistic that change is coming soon to America’s stringent gambling laws, including because President Trump is a former casino owner.
A win would “set off an insane frenzy in state governments across the country,” says Tusk. “For every e-sports company, it would all of a sudden be a battle royale with every state with casinos and Native American tribes,” some of which operate casinos on tribal land to provide employment and revenue for their government and their tribe members. “Assuming the Republican tax bill passes and [many] state and local deductions are eliminated, all blue states will need new forms of revenue, which is further incentive for [figuring out] sports betting.”
The legalization of cannabis [including on a federal level]. Tusk’s venture firm is an advisor to, and an investor in, the on-demand marijuana delivery startup Eaze. Cannabis will be “legalized in more places, and that’s good for [related] startups,” says Tusk, so it’s no surprise he is pushing on this one. “Though Congressional Republicans say they hate drugs,” he says, “if they take away revenue from people in California and New Jersey, these states have to make up the revenue somehow and they aren’t going to raise taxes, so I do think cannabis will [be legalized] a lot faster than otherwise.”
Worker classification. Yes, this is still a huge issue that, with no clear definition of what is and isn’t an independent contractor, despite that this  affects employers’ obligation to pay overtime, withhold and pay taxes, and provide employee benefits. Tusk, like a lot of people, would like to see states grow far clearer in their language, though he says that labor unions “don’t want a clearer economy. Sharing economy companies are saying, ‘Just give us the rules. We’ll either live by them or we won’t, but it’s kind of undemocratic not to tell us.'”
Though the tax bill could potentially increase workers’ status as contractors, Tusk has meanwhile been putting more thought into portable benefits pools that would travel with a worker no matter how he or she earns money. The benefits wouldn’t be quite as expansive as for full-time employees, but in the scenario he imagines, “each company puts in a little bit, the drivers put in a little bit, and they can use it for heath care or their pension or whatever they want.”
It won’t happen overnight — if at all. Complains Tusk, “Labor unions should be pro contract workers getting benefits, but if everyone can have the flexibility of being an independent contractor while also enjoying benefits, why would anyone have jobs?”
Autonomous mobility. On this front, things are going well for cars but not so well for self-driving trucks, notes Tusk, whose team will be working in part to address this.
He points to the bipartisan support for the so-called “SELF DRIVE” Act, which quickly cleared the House with unanimous support in September but hasn’t been cleared yet by the Senate.
It right now looks positioned to become the first national law for self-driving cars in the United States. Alas, both the House and Senate bill exempt self-driving trucks in the wake of pressure from labor unions that are worried about both truckers’ job security as well as their safety. (The Senate bill also limits companies to making autonomous-only cars so long as they sell less than a certain number of units in a given year, capping the number at 15,000 vehicles in the first year, 80,000 in three years, and allowing an unlimited number of cars in the fourth year.)
Because of that exception for big rigs — “a win for the teamsters,” Tusk calls it — expect a huge, ongoing fight at every level of government, he says. “It’s so clear and easy to envision, before cars, a big battle between the Ubers and Waymos and Teslas of the world, and the teamsters. But you can’t put the genie back in the bottle. All the teamsters can do is use politics to slow things down.”
Mobile voting. Mobile voting has been near and dear to Tusk’s heart for some time and he has recently been promoting one company as a potential solution to the challenge of the lack of participation, particularly when it comes to local elections where turnout is often in the range of 10 to 15 percent. That company is Voatz, a four-year-old, blockchain startup that passed through the TechStars accelerator program this year and is dedicated to the way we conduct elections here in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world. One imagines that Tusk would work with anyone who he thinks can finally solve this issue, however.

Featured Image: Tusk Ventures


Wandelbots has accomplished a lot for a startup that was founded officially only two weeks ago – the German company focuses on solving a key problem in robotics, using wearable technology and over two years of experience researching and designing adaptive software systems.
So what does Wandelbots actually do? Its first product is a sensor-laden suit that a person can wear to demonstrate actions so that a robot can then replicate what they do. Basically, it’s a system through which robots can “learn” what they need to without requiring that the person “teaching” them be an experienced robotics programmer.
Other projects have also employed vision-based systems to capture movement and teach it to other robots. But Wandelbots makes use of information related by embedded 9-axis sensors within the suits, which transmit magnometer, orientation and plenty of other data to the computer system to model the operator’s behavior.

The system also learns with repeat demonstrations, improving its model of the overall motion through successive observation. Then, a human engineer can refine the recorded movement and tweak it to ensure that it’s properly designed for use by a robot instead of by a person.
While there’s still human programming involved in the process, Wandelbots co-founder Christian Piechnick told me that the typical robotics programming process requires around $50,000 and a significant span of time for each new task you want a robot to perform. By comparison, Wandelbots estimates that it can accomplish the same thing up to a week or 20 times faster, and between 10 and 20 times cheaper.
Talent in robotics programming is in short supply, Piechnick told me, which is part of the reason it’s so expensive and so difficult to find people to actually do the job currently. Wandelbots hopes to address this problem by significantly reducing the amount of specialist time involved, meaning that even though the size of the talent pool may remain the same, those experts can spend less time on each job and potentially accomplish a lot more as a result.





Wandelbots-0163




Wandelbots-0158




Wandelbots-0159




Wandelbots-0160








Already, Wandelbots is working with “several larger customers,” according to Piechnick, including one of the largest ‘whiteware’ robotics software suppliers in China. They’re also in discussions with a major robot OEM to potentially ship hardware with support for their platform built-in next year.
Wandelbots anticipates having its product readily available to commercial customers by the end of 2018, Piechnick says. It’s a potentially transformative technology that could greatly accelerate the adoption and deployment of industrial and commercial robots, thus speeding up overall manufacturing automation.


Banking giant J.P Morgan Chase is taking another step into tapping fintech startups not just for investment, but for growing its business more directly. The company has officially closed its acquisition of WePay, the payments startup that powers payments for crowdfunding platforms like GoFundMe and competes with the likes of Stripe to provide payments infrastructure to any business that makes transactions online.
Sources close to the company have confirmed the price of the deal to us: just over $300 million, and up to $400 million including retention bonuses and earn-outs subject to hitting certain targets in coming quarters. (The terms of the deal were not disclosed when the Chase first announced it was acquiring WePay; it was reported to be higher than $220 million, WePay’s last funding post-money valuation.) WePay had raised $75 million since being founded in 2008 with investors including Y Combinator, August Capital, Max Levchin and many others.
The deal caps off a long negotiation process for the two companies: Chase first approached WePay to acquire it exactly one year ago. Now, there are three plans for WePay and Chase going forward.
The first is business as usual at WePay, which will continue to be run by co-founder Bill Clerico. The company already works with crowdfunding sites like GoFundMe, but also a number of others that have built SaaS elements into their business models and use WePay to collect payments for services rendered in the cloud. These include FreshBooks, Meetup (itself recently acquired by WeWork, so watch this space), Constant Contact and Freshbooks.
The second will be to leverage Chase’s existing customer base of 4 million small and medium businesses. The idea will be not only to provide payments services to these businesses where they are needed, but also a wider suite of business services beyond payments that already integrate with WePay, so that business customers can link up their banking accounts to these and use them more efficiently. This will solve a major issue around settlements for these businesses, Clerico told me in an interview.
“Most of the time with merchant providers, it’s between two business days to a week to get the money into your account,” he said. End-of-day and other “real time” settlement services that do exist tend to come at a premium. Square, for example, offers a faster option, but it’s priced at one percent of the total deposit amount, which really can add up if you’re an SMB.  “We think with some of these capabilities we can rapidly increase settlement times for our customers,” Clerico added.
The third will be to use the WePay office as a beachhead of sorts to build out JP Morgan Chase’s interface with Silicon Valley to tap into more innovation from the startup world to augment the company’s legacy banking business.
To date, there has been something of a disconnect between legacy banking services and newer tech from startups, and Chase is no exception, with surprisingly few acquisitions to date from the fintech world. Perhaps the most notable prior to WePay was earlier this year, when Chase acquired the technology of MCX. MCX had started as a partner of Chase’s and then pivoted to focusing only on banking deals of this kind after it shelved plans to develop an ApplePay competitor called CurrentC.
“Part of thesis is to help Chase have a presence in Silicon Valley and be a top tech employer in the region,” Clerico said. WePay plans to double its employees to 400 in the next 18 months, which could mean further acquisitions to come. 
While Chase has not been an active acquirer up to now, it has been an active investor — for example, it has backed the likes of LevelUp, Bill.com and an incubator focused on fintech. Its portfolio could be a useful place to look if one is trying to guess what other kinds of startups Chase might be interested to pick up next.
“There is a lot of consolidation happening overall,” Clerico hinted. 

Featured Image: Oliver Burston/Getty Images


Ever get stuck for that perfect gag-line on a photo of your friends? You want to turn even an ordinary photo into an internet meme, but maybe you just can’t think of that hilarious caption? Well, now you too can outsource your creative brain to the coming Artificial Intelligence overlords. Yes, indeed there is an app for that.
Now Prisma — the photo-editing application that utilizes a neural network and AI to give artistic effect to an image — has integrated a startup’s AI to complement it’s growing list of tools. It’s clearly part of their ongoing strategy. Back in July Prisma launched Sticky, which turns selfies into stylized and/or animated stickers for sharing to your social feeds.
Sharing memes is a big trend but it helps if you have a sense of humor to create them. Now you can get an AI to suggest those clever quotes you might not come up with because Prisma is integrating the tool from a meme-generator app, GagBot.
GagBot uses AI and object recognition to automatically generate custom memes based on the content of a user’s photos. You upload a photo, and the AI use semantic analysis to create original quotes based on the content in the picture.
GagBot has recently raised a $500,000 funding round led by AltaIR Capital and including angel investors. In recent times meme sites have become huge: 9GAG, the Hong Kong based social site; iFunny is huge an internet humor site; and Imgur is now a stalwart of these kinds of entertainment sites.
In a statement , Prisma CEO and co-founder Alexey Moiseenkov said: “Prisma has already expanded to video and selfie stickers, but now we’d like to offer an impressive artificial intelligence services to our users. We see a lot of opportunities in Gagbot and we believe it will help to produce a greater user experience with AI — helping people to communicate easier”.
“Despite AI breaking into our lives more and more, for most of us it still remains alien. We wanted to connect AI with people and to show how it can be used in our daily life. That’s how we came up with the idea to teach AI to create memes. We all get dozens of memes a day from our friends, but not all of them are really funny, and many of them we’ve already seen on different resources. Gagbot helps to create unique content without any effort. You do not even need to have wit, AI will do everything for you” said Viktor Mangazeev, Gagbot co-founder.
So, there goes human creativity guys…

“AI and its applications is something AltaIR Capital focuses on. Coupled with the popularity of imaging technology in social media, by combining the two, GagBot created a unique product that has a lot of potential,” commented Igor Ryabenkiy, AltaIR Capital partner.
The Gagbot team consists of Ivan Novikov, an AI expert, an CEO of Wallarm, a “next gen” web security solution. Wallarm raised $2.3 million after going through the Y Combinator from Partech Ventures, along with $500,000 USD seed investment from Runa Capital. Viktor Mangazeev, CEO of uTrener – a daily mobile fantasy sports operator, that raised $2 million from group of angel investors. Also co-founding is Anastasia Shvetsova, a PR professional and former journalist who has worked with WeWork, Houzz, HotelTonight, Facebook, Instagram, PayPal among other companies.
It’s interesting to note this move from Prisma, as it’s clearly trying to become the go-to company for all these meme-generation tools.
It recently shifted focus onto the b2b space, building tools for developers that draw on its expertise using neural networks and deep learning technology to power visual effects on mobile devices. It’s launched a new website, Prismalabs.ai, detailing this new offering.


Cars these days are basically computers with wheels, and as with other computers, you’ll probably want to make a few changes to protect against cyberthreats. Trillium, presenting today on Disrupt Berlin’s Startup Battlefield stage, is looking to be the security solution for in-car computer systems, adding extra encryption, intrusion detection and other firewall-like features.
We’ve already seen demonstrations of cars being hacked while on the road; the danger may be largely theoretical today, but it could make the jump to practical tomorrow.
“Hacked cars pose a far greater danger than hacked desktop consumers,” Trillium’s Adrian Sossna told me. “The possible damage that a rogue hacked car can make is vast. It’s already happening, and I am concerned that we will see large hacks in the next 12 months.”
It behooves auto manufacturers to inoculate against it, considering how hard they’re pushing connectivity as a marquee feature. Trillium aims to be a one-stop shop for that protection.




Trillium’s software lives on the car’s computing hardware, doing a couple of main duties. First, it encrypts all in-car transmissions; this prevents a security soft spot like a backseat media screen or Wi-Fi hotspot from becoming a back door into more critical systems. And second, it watches over the car’s networks for unusual activity that could indicate an intrusion attempt. The software updates itself.
To be clear, this isn’t something you’ll plug in and install on your 2014 Accord. You can’t actually fiddle with your car’s internals to that extent — it would be a serious safety hazard if anyone could tweak their car’s engine control unit at will. Instead, it would be built into cars at the model level based on the needs of certain markets.
“Trillium’s solution is built to be embedded into the car when it rolls out of the factory,” explained Sossna. “Our future end-customer is a fleet owner that needs to protect its employees, cargo and society at large from car hacks.”
So imagine you’re a cab company and you’re going to lease 20 new Priuses (Prii?) to add to your fleet. Looking at the models available, you see some have bigger wheels, some have leather trim, and so on — and some will have Trillium built in. Considering a bad hack could do irreparable damage to your business, you’ll probably want that last option. And eventually, Trillium’s founders theorize, insurance could require this sort of thing, at which point it ceases being an option and becomes a standard safety feature.

The pricing model is simple: $10 per car per month (not per day, as I had written here earlier), paid by fleet owners, not drivers or manufacturers — think ambulance and limo companies, metro authorities, and so on. That way it’s a continuing service that justifies itself with frequent updates.
Of course, car manufacturers and in-car systems makers are already working on security measures, but Trillium plans to improve on those capabilities — while also working as a turnkey solution that can easily be adapted to nearly any model. Currently the company is working on its final product with OEM, insurance, and Tier 1 supplier partners in Japan.

Trillium claims to be hardware, OS, and cypher agnostic, so it can easily be adapted for a new model or deployed across multiple vehicle classes that might not share their network components. It works because their software acts more as a transport layer, not digging deep into the applications and data themselves but just moderating their communications.
Cybersecurity in the automotive world is almost certain to become a major market, but it remains to be seen if there’s room for an ambitious startup solution like Trillium’s.


Watching video playback of a game’s key moments is an important part of coaching — but according to the team at AISpotter, it can also be tedious and time-consuming. That’s why they’re working to automate the process.
AISpotter took the stage today in Berlin as part of TechCrunch’s Startup Battlefield. CEO Anri Kivimäki explained that sports teams are already recording a lot of video of their matches (both for broadcast and internal use). Coaches then go through the video manually, or they send it off for someone else to create clips of the highlights, a process that can take a day or more.
The startup spun out of the University of Oulu in Finland, with computer vision technology that can look at video and identify different types of plays — and eventually, individual players.
That means it can digest footage and automatically create a timeline for the coach that allows them to jump to the most relevant moments in a game (and they get to specify what’s relevant to them). In the future, a coach might be able to share all the clips featuring a single player with that player.



aispotter screenshot




AI-Spotter-0125




AI-Spotter-0126




AI-Spotter-0123




AI-Spotter-0122








AISpotter charges 100 euro per video analyzed. Kivimäki said it usually takes about an hour to create the analysis, though the platform can also take advantage of other data about the game to shave that time down to 10 minutes.
She acknowledged that there are products trying to automate parts of the coaching process, but she said those products are focused on statistics, not videos. “Some companies produce 60 pages of numerical data, but for coaches and for players, it’s not that helpful.”
The company is currently aiming to work with football (soccer) and ice hockey teams: Football because it’s the most popular sport in the world, hockey because in Finland, “We are good in hockey.” Kivimäki isn’t necessarily looking to sign up top-tier teams (though AISpotter would happily work with them), but rather professional teams in the levels below the Premier League.
And again, the teams are usually recording the needed footage already, but if necessary, AI Spotter can also install the necessary (off-the-shelf) cameras.
Ultimately, Kivimäki and her CTO Sami Huttunen said the technology could be applied to other sports. And it could be used in areas outside coaching, like fan engagement, betting and scouting.


Notch creators Eszter Ozsvald and Stepan Boltalin have been working on their project since 2013 and are finally ready to unveil their final product on the Disrupt Berlin stage. The company, which received funding through SOSVentures and Hax Accelerator, allows users to scan their bodies in motion, allowing for powerful analytics on golf swings, gymnastics, routines and everyday activities.
The company is currently working with partners to create 3D recordings of various PGA instructions and pro golf players. One partner, 4DMotionSports, is creating 3D recordings of athletes for later playback.
“Notch is the first company to bring true motion capture to smartphones and the only platform for motion capture-based apps that offers SDK for Android and iOS for building consumer-ready motion analysis products,” said Ozsvald. “Compared to other products, Notch allows scalability from one to dozens of sensors and cost savings up to 10 times compared to products utilizing similar principles.”





You can order a six-sensor Notch kit for $387 and they’ve already sold 10,000 devices in the past few years.
The company completed a successful Kickstarter and is now releasing their commercial product and app.


Apple is expanding its social media outreach. The company has just launched a new YouTube channel to teach people how to use their Apple devices, like the iPhone and iPad, via video tutorials. The first set of videos focus on common and fairly simple tasks, like taking screenshots, adding attachments to email, deleting photos, changing the wallpaper and more.
The videos are short, with most around the minute-and-a-half mark, and the longest being two minutes. They also include English captions for accessibility, and are formatted with instructions on the left with a demo on the device to the right.
The new channel was first spotted by 9to5Mac, which noted that Apple had before posted similar “how to” videos on its main Apple YouTube channel in the past.

Apple has not yet made a formal announcement regarding its plans for the channel going forward, but it seems it could lend itself to a variety of tutorial videos, including those for non-iOS devices in the future, if it chose. It’s also unclear how often new videos will be posted, as the channel was initially seeded with 10 videos posted at the same time.
Already, the new resource has nearly 7,000 subscribers, and individual videos have hundreds of views apiece. The most popular, so far, is the featured video “how to take a screenshot,” which has over 2K views as of the time of writing.

This isn’t Apple’s only social media account by far.
In addition to its main YouTube channel, Apple runs Twitter accounts like Apple, Apple Education, App Store, and Apple Support, as well as an Facebook page, a couple Tumblrs, and multiple Instagram accounts, most recent addition being one to showcase photos shot on iPhone.


Instacart has inked a deal with Albertsons to offer same-day delivery from the grocery store chain.
The deal will include 1,800 of Albertsons stores across the country by mid-2018, helping Instacart deliver on its promise to be available in 80 percent of markets across the U.S. by the end of 2018.
This isn’t Albertsons first foray into the tech space. Earlier this year, the company introduced same-day delivery as well as Drive-up & Go, and Albertsons also acquired meal-kit company Plated for $200 million in September.
The Instacart deal will be complimentary to Albertsons’ existing same-day delivery.
While the Amazon/Whole Foods deal surely poses a challenge for Instacart, the merger also presents an opportunity. With one of the world’s biggest ecommerce giants focusing squarely on groceries, incumbent grocers across the country are being forced to keep pace and offer online shopping and delivery. In many cases, that means turning to Instacart to offer customers an online shopping portal and hand-to-hand delivery.
Here’s what Instacart CEO Apoorva Metha had to say in a prepared statement:
Families across the nation trust and rely on Albertsons Companies’ stores for their fresh groceries and everyday essentials. We couldn’t be more excited to work with the company’s legendary brands from coast-to-coast to offer customers a new convenient, time-saving option for shopping at their neighborhood store.
Albertsons is the third-largest grocery retailer in North America behind Walmart and Kroger’s. Instacart has signed on the top six grocers in NA with the exception of Walmart, which is testing its own delivery that would give delivery people access to your home to leave goods in the fridge.


A new partnership between autonomous driving startup Optimus Ride and release estate developer LStar Ventures will see self-driving vehicle access offered up to residents of a new urban development near Boston called Union Point, via a revenue generating last mile commuter and local destination autonomous travel service.
The partnership will see the Union Point neighborhood, which occupies 1,550 acres just over 10 miles south of Boston, loaded out with a fleet provided by Optimus Ride that will operate driverless vehicle service connecting the community to South Weymouth rail station, and also operating within the development itself.
This is possible because Optimus Ride, an MIT spinout company founded by a team of DARPA Urban Challenge competitors and other autonomous driving engineers, has secured a self-driving vehicle test permit from the Massachusetts Department of Transportation, giving it the okay to field autonomous cars in the commonwealth.
This represents “the word’s first revenue generation autonomous vehicle pilot program,” according to Optimus Ride, meaning the first in which members of the public will pay for access to a commercial service offering. Waymo has been operating an autonomous test pickup service in Arizona, but it has not been using it to generate revenue from rides thus far.
The goal is to begin picking up passengers with the new service starting in early 2018, according to Optimus and LStar, and to incorporate other smart infrastructure tech into the Union Point development, which is being built from the ground up as a model smart city.


While Photoshop users have gotten pretty damn good at masking humans and other subjects over the years, it still remains one of the most tedious tasks in the app. But the days of Magic Wand masking will soon be over.
Adobe today teased an upcoming feature that uses AI to identify and automatically mask subjects in the image. The feature is called Select Subject and it uses Adobe’s AI platform, Sensei.
From the “Select and Mask” menu, simply click anywhere on the image and it will automatically identify and select the various subjects in the image. From there, the same tools to change the background or edit the subject are available.
Adobe teased the feature in a video, saying that it will be available in the next iteration of Photoshop.

That said, there’s no timeline for Photoshop future releases.
As Engadget notes, the Select Subject tool isn’t perfect and still has some trouble identifying fine details like strands of hair, but it should get better over time as the machine learning algorithm takes in more data.


On the heels of news that Amazon may have accounted for half of Black Friday online sales, the retailer today announced that the Black Friday holiday shopping weekend – which it defines as Thanksgiving through Cyber Monday – was its best-ever, in terms of Amazon devices sold. The company historically doesn’t release hard numbers related to its device sales. Instead, it claims that “millions” of Alexa devices were sold during this time frame.
One notable item it did share was that its Echo Dot and Amazon Fire TV Stick with Alexa Voice Remote were not only the best-selling Amazon devices during this sales holiday, but they were also the best-selling products from any manufacturer in any category on Amazon.
Of course, that’s not too surprising given that Amazon gave its devices a big push this year, offering deep discounts to encourage shoppers to buy.
For example, Amazon slashed the price on its Echo Dot on Cyber Monday to $29.99 – the lowest price ever for the small Alexa-powered speaker. It also took advantage of its newly acquired brick-and-mortar footprint to market the device at its Whole Food stores during this sales holiday, which made the Echo Dot the best-seller at those locations, the retailer noted.
Amazon’s Fire TV Stick, meanwhile, was discounted $15 to bring it to $24.99 on Cyber Monday, vastly undercutting its closest rival, the Roku Streaming Stick with voice remote, which is $49.99. The retailer said customers purchased 2.7x more Fire TV Sticks than they did last year, which could also be an indication of the drive towards cord cutting and streaming, more so than the popularity of Amazon’s streaming stick in particular.
“Customers purchased millions of Amazon’s Alexa-enabled devices this weekend, and Alexa devices were the top sellers across all of Amazon,” said Dave Limp, Senior Vice President, Amazon Devices & Services, in a statement. “We’re excited that tens of millions of customers around the world will be using Alexa to prepare for the holidays.”
That “tens of millions” is about as close as Amazon gets to talking about Alexa devices sales figures. It’s the same figure CEO Jeff Bezos dropped in Amazon’s Q3 2017 earnings release, seemingly a confirmation that Amazon has sold more than 20 million Alexa devices. That’s in line with earlier estimates of 16.1 million Echo devices sold through the end Q2.
Voicebot’s analysis of Bezos’ earlier statement estimates that Echo sales to date have totaled 19.5 – 21.5 million units, while non-Echo smart speakers with Alexa built-in were in the 1 million unit range through Q3 2017.
Note that Amazon didn’t announce “record” sales for this 2017 holiday shopping weekend, only record numbers of Amazon devices sold. That could mean that shoppers were spreading their dollars around among other online retailers. [Update, 11/29/17: A day after publication, Amazon did announce a record Cyber Monday.]
This year, shoppers spent a record $5.03 billion in Black Friday online sales in the U.S., and a record-breaking $6.59 billion in Cyber Monday online sales. Those numbers extend far beyond Amazon.
But don’t worry about Amazon – it made up its own sales holiday called Prime Day, which was the biggest sales day in company history in 2017 and the year prior.


In February of this year, Airbnb acquired social payments startup Tilt. Today, the fruits of that acquisition are being passed along to Airbnb users.
Starting now, Airbnb users have the ability to split payments with their fellow travelers. Before now, one traveler was forced to front the cost of the trip and hope that their friends/colleagues/family were responsible enough to pay them back in a timely fashion.
Payment splitting will work with up to 16 travelers, offering plenty of flexibility for large groups who travel together.
Airbnb says that 30 percent of reservations booked with the payments splitting tool (which has been in testing), led to one or more new users on Airbnb. So, while this is a useful feature for users, it’s also a growth tool for Airbnb.
On Christmas Day in 2016, Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky asked users what features they want most on Airbnb. According to the company, payment splitting was one of the top requests in response to the tweet.


If @Airbnb could launch anything in 2017, what would it be?
— Brian Chesky (@bchesky) December 26, 2016



As part of the announcement, Airbnb ran a survey with the help of Pollfish and DKC Analytics speaking to 2000 adults in the U.S. between November 15 and November 18. From that sample, 43 percent of them have lost $1,000 or more in repayments from group trips. Moreover, 18 percent say they’ve lost $10,000 or more from not getting repaid after group trips, and 29 percent have fought with a friend over group trip repayment.
Here’s how it works:

When a trip organizer puts in a request to book a listing, the organizer’s portion of the payment is charged on their credit card, bringing up a menu to share the booking with other members of the travel group. They then have 72 hours to log in to Airbnb and pay their portion.
Within the blog post, Airbnb mentions that this workflow applies to “listings that qualify for split payments” but didn’t clarify what that means or what percentage of Airbnb listings qualify. We’ve reached out and will update the post when we hear back.
Update: Airbnb got back to us. There are a few qualifications for split payment listings: the reservation must start at least 10 days from the time of booking and the stay must be for less than 27 days. In other words, it has nothing to do with the listing itself, but rather the length of the stay and the notice of the reservation.

Featured Image: Carl Court/Getty Images


If you’ve ever tried to do business across borders, you know how painful it can be to send a wire transfer, wait for the payment to clear the bank and pay a set of fees along the way. Veem is a startup trying to simplify all of that for SMBs by providing a platform to ease the international transfer of funds between businesses. Today, it announced it was opening up that capability to developers in the form of an API.
Up until now, users could go to the Veem website, or they could use the direct integration inside Quickbooks, Xero and Netsuite, three accounting platforms that are popular with SMBs (small to medium sized businesses).
To use Veem, the parties involved simply sign up online on the Veem website to create an account. Instead of requiring a ton of information to make the transfer, all you need is an email. You enter the amount and the email of the recipient and Veem handles the cross-border transfers and makes money on the exchange rate.
It’s worth noting that general foreign exchange fees are typically around 4 percent with bank wire transfers. Depending on the transaction, Veem takes between a half and 2 percent on exchange, making it a much cheaper and easier option for small businesses to use.
When small businesses make these kinds of international monetary transfers, there are also rules and regulations to deal with, which Veem can also handle including bills of sale or lading and other details the receiving bank may require.
This is really where opening this up to other platforms other than the three accounting packages could shine. It enables programmers to add international payments to any app by connecting to the Veem API.
This not only opens up this capability to developers, greatly simplifying something that’s actually quite complicated, it provides a way for Veem to appear inside more applications without dealing with the integration themselves. It also provides a way to build Veem usage without having users go directly to the Veem site.
The company does not charge developers for connecting to Veem, making it an attractive option for programmers. Instead, it continues to make money off of the exchange rate fees
Veem launched in 2014 and has raised over $44 million.

Featured Image: Rawpixel/Getty Images


All of the hyper-scale cloud providers love to tout their new customer acquisitions: Google talking about Spotify; Microsoft signing up various Adobe services for Azure; or AWS working with the likes of GE. That’s a sign of how competitive this market is, despite AWS’s continuing market share leadership.
At its annual re:Invent conference in Las Vegas, Amazon’s cloud service today announced that Turner, Time-Warner’s entertainment, sports and news company, is making AWS its preferred cloud provider. Turner’s brands and partners include channels like TBS, TNT, Cartoon Network, CNN and Adult Swim.
Turner says that it is bringing “decades of content” to the AWS cloud, including CNN’s 15-petabyte video archive. The company is also moving thousands of virtual machines to AWS and expects to use a wide range of Amazon’s AI technologies to better analyze and extract video metadata to offer its viewers enhanced personalized experiences and, of course, to help its advertisers, content creators and analysts better understand viewing trends (the emphasis here is probably on the advertisers).
“We’re changing our broadcast technology stack to a fully digital, cloud environment built on AWS, which will enable us to adapt to new video delivery models, as well as provide our viewers with more personalized content and advertisement,” said Turner CTO Jeremy Legg in a canned statement. “Our relationship with AWS and the services they provide are essential to our success. Given that we reach over 80 percent of adults and 70 percent of millennials every month, we needed a cloud provider that has the ability to support massive-scale media businesses like ours which often have spikes in demand across our diverse portfolio.”
AWS stressed that Turner isn’t the first media company to make the move to its cloud. Others include the BBC, C-SPAN, Hulu, Netflix, PBS, GoPro, Lionsgate and Spotify (which still keeps a presence on the AWS platform).

Featured Image: John Greim/Getty Images


Remember how VMware was supposed to be disrupted by AWS? Somewhere along the way it made a smart move. Instead of fighting the popular cloud platform, it decided to make it easier for IT to use its products on AWS. Today, at the opening of the AWS re:invent customer conference, it announced plans to expand that partnership with some new migration and disaster recovery services.
As Mark Lohmeyer, VP of the VMware cloud platform business unit pointed out, it’s only been a quarter since they made the original product generally available. The new products are designed to help ease the transition to the cloud.
One of the issues VWmare customers have struggled with, is simply moving their mission critical applications from their datacenters to the cloud. Lohmeyer says the new migration product is designed to move applications quickly with no down time and for a reasonable cost (although that’s probably in the eye of the beholder). If it works as advertised, it really gives IT the best of both worlds.
They can move their applications lock, stock and barrel from the datacenter to AWS and continue to monitor and manage them in the way they have been. If there truly is no downtime, this makes for an easy cloud transition, whether a company wants to start slowly and move an application or two or has plans to shut down the company datacenter and needs to move everything.
What’s more, VMware is sweetening the pot by offering reserved pricing discounts over the traditional hourly pricing model. That means if you sign up for a year or three years you get a discount, although the amount will vary depending on volume and other factors. They are also introducing hybrid licenses, which allow customers to continue to use their on-prem licenses when they move to the cloud. All of these factors could reduce the overall cost of transitioning to the cloud over standard pricing approaches.
VMware also announced a new disaster recover product. This enables IT to keep a copy of applications and data in the cloud on AWS. In the event of a disaster like a massive hurricane, power outage or other misfortune they can keep going with minimal disruption. “If you have a failure in your on-prem cloud, you can organize a restart on AWS,” Lohmeyer explained.
The disaster recovery tool also helps those companies that may be slow to move to the cloud to get more comfortable with the idea. If you can store your disaster recovery backup in the cloud, you may be ready to move the actual applications at some point too.
VMware was the company that popularized the virtual machine concept and today it is the premiere datacenter product. The problem for VMware has been that the future is moving out of the datacenter and into the cloud. Its first idea was to try to build its own public cloud service and compete with AWS. When that idea fizzled, VMware had a Plan B and that was to partner with the other cloud vendors. The biggest of those is of course AWS.
As Lohmeyer sees it, this partnership is good for everyone. “It’s good for customers because they can readily take advantage of the cloud model. It’s good for VMware because we are keeping the customers on our platforms and growing the workloads. And it’s good for AWS because there are more workloads running on their platform.”
If it works as described, that’s the ingredients for an ideal partnership.


Today is #GivingTuesday, a global day of giving that always falls on the first Tuesday after Thanksgiving.
This year Facebook is again partnering with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to match up to $2M in donations to fundraisers held on Facebook by nonprofits. Additionally, Facebook is waiving its typical 5% fee on donations to U.S-based nonprofits all day long.
It’s a big step up from last year for both groups, when Facebook only waived fees up to $500,000 and the Gates Foundation only matched $500,000 (but later increased it to $900,000 as the original milestone was hit within hours). Last year on Giving Tuesday Facebook raised $6.79M total via their fundraising platform, and $168M was raised worldwide by all participants.
Matching for U.S nonprofits will be capped at $50,000, or $1,000 per fundraiser or donate button until the $2M matching limit is hit.
This $1,000 limit means that the most successful nonprofits will have lots of individual fundraisers and donate buttons created by a variety of Facebook users, and not just rely on ones created by themselves.
So in additional to actually donating money you can help by creating fundraiser for a nonprofit here, or just add a donate button to a Facebook post by typing #donate. There’s also an option to go live and add a donate button to your live stream, essentially letting you create your own mini-telethon.
Matching starts at 8am ET, so if you’re planning on donating to a your favorite charity make sure you do it early in case the matching funds run out.


Featured Image: Frederic Stevens/Getty Images


Here, the mapping company that powers location services in 100 million cars, is today announcing an acquisition to vastly improve how it distributes and updates its data. The company is buying Advanced Telematic Systems (ATS), a Berlin-based developer of secure over-the-air (OTA) technology, the basis for how wireless devices — including not just cars but smartphones and other hardware — get their systems updated securely — and also, these days, help feed back information to improve how those systems operate.
Here has “only had a limited capability in [OTA technology] until now,” a spokesperson tells TechCrunch. “The ATS acquisition will make us a major player in this area.”
Financial terms of the deal — which is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2018 — are not being disclosed.
Founded in 2014 by Armin Schmidt, Dirk Pöschl and Arthur Taylor, ATS had earlier raised over $12 million, Here tells me, from consortium of Japanese, US and Taiwanese VCs. Pitchbook notes they include iD Ventures America (formerly known as Acer Technology Ventures), Japan’s IT-Farm Corporation, and the Taiwanese ODM maker Wistron, formerly the manufacturing arm of Acer before getting spun out.
“This is an exciting opportunity for ATS as we will be able to combine HERE’s deep customer relationships with OEMs and our global client and partner network to deliver new commercial solutions and enhance the existing functionality of HERE products and services,” said Schmidt, ATS’s CEO. “We now look forward to joining a business with an inspirational vision to shape the autonomous world.”
(This is Schmidt’s and Taylor’s second exit; they had previously co-founded Aupeo, a music streaming service that was acquired by Panasonic.)
The significance of this deal is that it is about Here getting with the times and continuing to modernise itself.
Once part of Nokia but spun out in a €2.5 billion deal, Here is now owned by a consortium that includes the carmakers Audi, BMW and Daimler and Intel (an attempted stake purchase by GIC, Tencent and NavInfo was blocked by CFIUS in the U.S.). Today, Here claims that its 100 million installs makes it the world’s largest provider of mapping data to the automotive industry.
Its legacy is an old one: Here originally was formed in part through Nokia’s acquisition of Navteq in 2007, which itself had been around since 1985. That age in part underscores the need for the company to invest in, and acquire, more modern technology.
In the case of OTA, ATS’s solution is built around open source OTA technology. Notably, in June it integrated with Uptane, a security framework backed by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security designed specifically for software that runs on autonomous and connected cars — the idea being that vehicles could be especially deadly if they are maliciously hacked, and the aim here is to try to prevent that from happening.
Another situation to try to prevent is the migration of customers to competitors. Companies like Mapbox, Google and more are also building mapping systems that they would like to power the car of the future (and present, if you are so fortunate to have a fancy, new car). This is another reason behind Here wanting ATS and its tech.
OTA technology has been around for years as a way for mobile carriers to update settings on phones that are on their network, but it’s taken a more proactive turn in more recent times.
Not only are the systems in cars far more complex — covering not just HD maps but real-time pictures of road environments, entertainment services and information, navigation and more — but software engineers are now using the network of devices not so much as dumb endpoints, but as new data gathering tools to continue to feed back information to the central system to improve how it works overall.
This is especially important in the world of mapping, where road conditions and sometimes the roads themselves, are changing constantly, meaning satellite imaging — the basis for a lot of legacy and modern maps — cannot do the full job.
“Data and software delivery is a defining factor for future success within the automotive industry as vehicles are becoming more connected and autonomous,” said Ralf Herrtwich, SVP Automotive of HERE, in a statement. “The acquisition of ATS is a hugely important strategic investment for us to complement our portfolio as a premium automotive cloud provider. I’m excited to welcome Armin and his team into the HERE family.”
Updated with more information about the ownership of Here, and its underlying tech.


Russian software giant Yandex took its prototype self-driving taxi out for its first real-world snow test last weekend. It says the Prius model prototypes clocked up 300km in total during the test. It’s put out the above video demoing the two cars in action.
“We have been working to prepare algorithms for winter ‘at garage’ for a while, so last weekend tests in real world was just the first time we got all confirmations,” Dmitry Polishchuk, head of Yandex.Taxi’s self-driving project, told us.
Computer vision systems for autonomous vehicles can’t of course be engineered to only encounter perfect road conditions. Just like human drivers these systems need to be ready and able to adapt, come rain or shine.
On the weather front, snow is considered especially challenging, given it can mask road markings which could confuse navigation systems, while also adding a potentially slippery surface to the driving mix. So it’s an important step in the testing process.
That said, there are lots more steps to go. Yandex has not yet tested the self-driving prototypes on public roads where they will encounter their biggest challenge: Interacting with human drivers.
It says it hopes to start public road tests next year, although that will also first require a thawing in the local regulatory landscape — as Russia currently prohibits the use of self-driving vehicles on public roads.
In the meanwhile, Polishchuk claims the first snow test for the Yandex.Taxi prototype went off smoothly. “There was nothing unexpected,” he says, adding: “Computer vision algorithms should be specially tuned to work properly when the snow is falling and covering road surface, and driving technology should count slick surface when choosing speed mode.
“We will continue tests during the whole winter to make sure our technology for driverless car is reliable for such condition.”
The company debuted its self-driving car project in May, saying it was using custom-built hardware plus generally available mass market components for the prototypes, while also developing its own self-driving software in house — drawing on its existing expertise in image matching for search and translating text within photos within its language service offerings.
In related news, earlier this week Russian regulators gave Uber and Yandex the greenlight for a joint venture in Russia. In July the companies announced their plans to merge operations in the region, with Uber and Yandex both investing in a new joint company — but Yandex owning a majority share of it.


Senators Kamala D. Harris (D-CA), Richard Burr (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), as well as Rep. Jackie Speier introduced a bill today to address revenge porn. The bill, Ending Nonconsenual Online User Graphic Harassment (ENOUGH) Act of 2017, is designed to address the unwanted sharing of private, explicit images.
The ENOUGH Act would specifically ensure the Department of Justice has tools in place to address revenge porn, and establish federal criminal liability for those who share revenge porn and other consensual images. In order to prosecute someone under the ENOUGH Act, there would need to be proof that the person knew the victim expected the image to remain private, and that sharing the image would harm the victim.
“A prosecution would also have to prove that no reasonable person would consider the shared image to touch on a matter of public concern,” the release states.
This bill comes after Rep. Speier introduced a version of the bill, the intimate Privacy Protection Act of 2016, in the 114th Congress. The bill, however, only made it to the House of Representatives.
“Perpetrators of exploitation who seek to humiliate and shame their victims must be held accountable,” Senator Harris said in a press release. “It is long past time for the federal government to take action to give law enforcement the tools they need to crack down on these crimes.”
The bill, which has bi-partisan support, also has support from tech companies like Twitter and Facebook. In the last year, Facebook and Twitter have made some efforts to crack down on revenge porn. In April, Facebook implemented a photo-matching technology to ensure people can re-share images previously reported and tagged as revenge porn. Last month, Twitter updated its policy to state that no one can post or share “intimate photos or videos” of someone without their consent.
Revenge porn is a widespread issue on the internet, with one in 25 people in the U.S. being victims of non-consensual image sharing, according to a 2016 report from the Data & Society Research Institute and the Center for Innovative Public Health Research. Of those affected by the sharing of consensual intimate images, 93 percent of people report “significant emotional distress” and 82 percent report significant difficulties in other aspects of their lives, according to the US Victims of Non-Consensual Intimate Images.
“For victims of nonconsensual pornography, technology today makes it possible to destroy a person’s life with the click of a button or a tap on a cell phone,” Congressperson Speier said in a statement. “The damage caused by these attacks can crush careers, tear apart families, and, in the worst cases, has led to suicide. What makes these acts even more despicable is that many predators have gleefully acknowledged that the vast majority of their victims have no way to fight back. Even in states that have laws on the books, the average person can’t afford to take on these predators in civil courts. Worse are the numerous victims who have mustered the courage and strength to pursue criminal charges, only to learn there is no law that protects them. The ENOUGH Act will fix this gaping hole in our legal system.”

Featured Image: Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call/Getty Images


StrideUp, a U.K. startup founded last year by Sakeeb Zaman and Rohan Trivedi, both formerly of Deutsche Bank, wants to make shared home ownership more readily available within the private housing sector.
The company, which launched in the summer, lets you buy a portion of your home while you continue to rent the remainder. The idea, Trivedi tells me, is to provide an alternative to a mortgage, a form of financing that is increasingly out of reach for many.
Citing official figures from 2016, the StrideUp co-founder says that house prices in the U.K. are an average 7.6 times the average annual salary, more than double the figure for 20 years ago. Conversely, average mortgage amounts offered to first time buyers sit at just 3.6 times salary.
Shared ownership — where you and your landlord both own a percentage of the home you live in — is one solution to this problem. As and when you can afford to purchase more, you increase your stake at the current market valuation (and, in turn, reduce your rent), until eventually you own the home outright or can secure a conventional mortgage to do so.
“Our typical customers are first time buyers in their mid/late 20s to late 30s. They have spent five-plus years renting and want to get on to the property ladder but traditional mortgage finance is unable to bridge the gap between where they want to live and what they can buy,” says Trivedi.
“StrideUp breaks down the binary nature of homeownership where you rent (and own nothing) versus trying to buy a home using a mortgage and owning a 100 percent. With StrideUp people can start by buying a portion of their home, say 10 percent or 20 percent, and as they live in the property, they gradually increase their ownership”.
On competitors, Trivedi says the closest offering in the U.K. is the Government’s Shared Ownership schemes, which are well liked but constrained by supply. “StrideUp offers a significantly more flexible product, where home buyers are able to pick their home from any property on the open market. They can live where they want, in the type of property they want and not have to be on a waiting list for years,” he says. Another startup eyeing up the space is Unmortgage.
The way StrideUp works is that as a prospective homebuyer you sign up and apply via the startup’s website. You then get assessed by its tech/algorithm and receive a budget or the maximum property value you should target. Next you are tasked with finding a property on the open market that best fits your needs and then submit it to StrideUp for approval.
The startup’s data models will then help you determine what is a fair offer on the property, before you make an offer to the seller, as you would however you were financing your property. Once your offer is accepted, StrideUp will support you through the buying process (where you’ll need to arrange a surveyor and solicitor etc.) and provide the additional financing when you’re ready to exchange.
Meanwhile, StrideUp’s business model is akin to a property investment platform. This sees institutional investors stump up much of the capital required to finance the homes the startup is partially buying and pocket most of the returns (ie the rent plus any increase in each property’s valuation, which is realised as an occupier increases their stake over time or the home is put back on the open market for sale). StrideUp itself makes money by charging an origination and management fee to investors.
To that end, the U.K. company is disclosing £1.6 million in seed funding. The round is a mixture of equity and debt financing led by Picus Capital, along with an unnamed group of angel investors with technology, finance and real estate expertise.


Baidu, China’s answer to Google, and Xiaomi, which has modeled itself on the success of the America’s most successful technology manufacturer in Apple, have announced a strategic partnership to tackle two emerging technologies, internet of things and artificial intelligence.
Announced today at Xiaomi’s first developer conference in Beijing, the alliance is a marriage between the third most valuable publicly traded Chinese technology company in Baidu and one of the world’s most valuable private firms, Xiaomi.
Clocking in with a market capitalization of $86 billion, Baidu is no slouch on the global technology stage — with AI and deep learning among its core focuses — while Xiaomi has become a key player in China and made inroads in emerging markets like India thanks to its affordable phones and smart devices which punch well above their price tag.
The duo are announcing a collaboration for the first time, but TechCrunch understands that Baidu’s conversational operating system — DuerOS — is already present in some Xiaomi hardware. That’s little known because it was left unbranded, but now the companies have made their partnership official.
Exact details of the tie-up are not being disclosed right now, but the two firms said will immediately explore opportunities in voice recognition, deep learning and computer vision, in addition to more work with  DuerOS. Further to that, Baidu’s tech reach also extends into robotics, AR, VR and self-driving cars, which could also be areas of joint cooperation in the future for Xiaomi.

Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun (left) with Baidu Vice Chairman, Group President and COO Qi Lu
Even if the two companies are just partnering for the domestic Chinese market a real partnership that does more than pay lip service to the potential benefits of technology sharing would make each far more competitive than either one on their own.
Baidu has favored a partnership based approach with hardware makers to get DuerOS and other tech into the hands of consumers. The company doesn’t charge a license fee for the OS — the same applies to this Xiaomi deal — and it claims to work with 130 companies that cover smartphones, smart TVs, smartwatches and home appliances.
Most notably, it recently released details of its first smart speaker, the very uniquely designed Raven series. The product was the fruit of its acquisition of hardware startup Raven earlier this year, but Baidu also roped in Sweden’s Teenage Engineering, which is known for pushing the envelope on hardware design.


Update: WeWork’s chief executive officer Adam Neumann confirmed in a blog post that it will buy Meetup.
Co-working space giant WeWork will acquire Meetup, according to Crunchbase News. The report says Meetup chief executive officer and co-founder Scott Heiferman shared the news with employees at a company-wide meeting on Monday.
WeWork declined to comment on the report. TechCrunch has also contacted Meetup.
Reportedly now valued at $20 billion, WeWork raised a massive $4.4 billion round from SoftBank Group and SoftBank Vision Fund this summer. The funding is fueling a shopping spree: over the past six months, WeWork has acquired Fieldlens, a communication system for the construction industry; Singaporean co-working space startup Spacemob; enterprise sales and marketing platform Unomy; and coding bootcamp Flatiron School. WeWork also recently paid $850 million for Lord & Taylor’s former Fifth Avenue flagship department store to serve as its Manhattan headquarters.
Founded in 2002, Meetup was an online pioneer when it launched to help groups of people organize offline gatherings based on shared interests. Since then, it’s come up against formidable competition from social media, especially Facebook groups.

Featured Image: Bloomberg/Contributor/Getty Images


French startup Doctolib is raising money for the second time in the past twelve months. The company is building a sort of Salesforce for the healthcare industry with a big emphasis on bookings. Doctolib just raised $42 million (€35 million) from Eurazeo and existing investor Bpifrance.
The startup announced another round of funding back in January 2017. If you combine those two rounds, Doctolib has raised $72.7 million (€61 million) in 2017, which makes it one of the best-funded health startups in Europe.
Doctolib has developed an online booking platform for all medical practitioners. It is already quite big in France as the startup handles around 7 million bookings every month. The company has recently expanded to Germany, and there are some encouraging signs in Germany as well.
So far, getting new doctors is much faster in Germany than during the beginnings of the service in France. The company now has five offices in Berlin, Munich, Cologne, Düsseldorf and Hamburg.
“We have already managed 1.5 million bookings in Germany,” co-founder and CEO Stanislas Niox-Chateau told me. “Pretty soon, we’re going to be as big in Germany as in France.”
In total, there are 30,000 health professionals using the platform with 12 million monthly visitors in France and Germany. But this isn’t your average marketplace. You can’t take a cut on medical transactions or use medical data because of privacy reasons.
That’s why the startup has decided to sell its service to practitioners directly. Each doctor pays €109 per month in France and €129 per month in Germany to replace their booking system with Doctolib. With a little back-of-the-envelope calculation, you can see that the company is already earning quite a lot of cash.
With today’s funding round, the company wants to be the undisputed leader in both Germany and France. Docotlib will hire 100 new employees in Germany and open an engineering office in Germany. Doctolib has 380 employees in total and also plans to hire 100 persons in France.
There’s still a lot of room to grow as only a small percentage of doctors already use a solution like Doctolib. Doctolib’s main competitor isn’t another online booking platform. The startup needs to convince doctors who still rely heavily on phone calls and outdated systems.
When you switch to Doctolib, your patients can see directly when you’re available. The startup also sends reminders, which reduces no shows. Finally, Doctolib can also tell you about earlier appointments if a patient cancels an appointment. Overall, Doctolib wants to help doctor spends less time doing administrative tasks, which should greatly improve their revenue.
But the company doesn’t plan to stop at bookings. Doctolib has been working hard on new products to create a suite of services for healthcare professionals. In addition to managing everything from appointments to your waiting room, the company is working on improving communication channels between doctors and patients, and between multiple practitioners. It’s still a bit vague, but I’m sure we’ll hear more about those new features in the coming months.

Featured Image: Yeko Photo Studio/Shutterstock


Today’s Stories 

David Karp is leaving Tumblr by the end of the year
Security business Barracuda Networks acquired for $1.6 billion
MIT and Harvard create cheap artificial muscles with super strength

Credits
Written by: Tito HamzeHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed by: Tito HamzeEdited by: Tito Hamze
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107


A SoftBank Group-led team of investors has made an offer to buy Uber’s shares in a tender offer that would value the company at about a 30% discount to Uber’s last private valuation of nearly $70 billion, a source with knowledge of the proposed deal tells TechCrunch. We’re hearing that the proposed price per share is $32.96, which works out to under $50 billion.
Bloomberg first reported the latest development, which follows months of talks about both a direct investment in the ride-hailing company at the company’s last private valuation of nearly $70 billion and also a large purchase of the shares of existing shareholders at the lower price.
Uber already announced a few weeks ago that was moving forward with the process, specifically that it “entered into an agreement with a consortium led by SoftBank and Dragoneer on a potential investment.”Now the tender offer is expected to launch tomorrow, which is the date we reported at the time.
It’s a package deal and the $1 billion investment at Uber’s last private valuation is contingent on the secondary happening. The tender would include nearly $9 billion of shares from existing shareholders, the amount needed to get the SoftBank-led group its desired 14% of the company.
We’re told that Uber employees with at least 10,000 of vested share will be eligible to sell. Other Uber shareholders, including venture capitalists, angel investors and former employees could also be eligible.
They are asking the sellers to be “accredited investors,” which is typical for buyers, but less common for sellers. This means that Uber employees who make less than $200,000 in salary, will also need to be worth $1 million to sell their shares (this includes the value of the shares). In other words, you already need to be “rich” to make more money here.
But for those eligible, this will finally give more employees an opportunity to turn paper money into cash.
We’re told it’s also possible that if SoftBank does not find enough sellers at the $32.96 share price, that they may raise the price to meet the desired 14% ownership.
Until recently, most Uber shareholders were prevented from selling. The $1 billion investment in the company will also help the company continue to fuel its growth as it prepares to grow public in 2019.
This is a big moment for Uber, in what has been a very difficult year. Uber has been dealt legal battles, including a patent lawsuit with Alphabet’s self-driving car division, and public outcry about its company culture. Co-founder and CEO Travis Kalanick was pressured to resign in June.
If the deal is completed, investor and board member Benchmark Capital has agreed to drop its lawsuit against Kalanick. The lawsuit related to Kalanick’s power to appoint three board seats, including his own. Kalanick recently named Ursula Burns and John Thain to those seats. If one of them gives up their spot, Kalanick will require a board vote to appoint a replacement, as long as the SoftBank deal is finalized.
 
 

Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images


A bit of a surprise just dropped for everyone poking around Pokémon GO this holiday season: a new legendary Pokémon, Ho-Oh.
Niantic usually debuts legendary Pokémon (the massive, super strong Pokémon that require groups of up to 20 players to take down and capture) with a bit of fanfare, but this one showed up pretty much out of nowhere. If you weren’t paying attention to Niantic’s social media feeds or actively watching the nearby raids screen, it’d be easy to miss.
Especially because it sounds like it’s only going to be here for a little while — Niantic says Ho-Oh will only appear in raid battles until 12/12.


Thanks to all your hard work last week, Ho-Oh will appear in Raid Battles until 12/12! #PokemonGOtravel #GlobalCatchChallenge https://t.co/YfyBGwfTux pic.twitter.com/mdGoFByyQl
— Pokémon GO (@PokemonGoApp) November 27, 2017


No one ever says hardware is easy, and today it looks like another promising startup has hit a wall. Navdy, which made an in-car heads-up display that projected info like navigation on to your windscreen, has been sending out notices to customers and others who might have claims against the company, as part of a General Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors.
The full note is at the end of this story.
This is not a bankruptcy per se, but an alternative to one, aimed at smaller businesses.
As part of it, the company Navdy Inc. (the assignor) is assigning its rights in tangible and intangible assets to Navdy LLC (the assignee) for liquidation.
Specifically:
“Assignee shall liquidate the Assets, wind down Assignor and distribute the net liquidation proceeds to creditors of Assignor who timely submit claims as instructed below,” reads a legal notice pertaining to the General Assignment, which is dated October 26.
Those who believe they may have a claim against Navdy should follow this link to make it. The deadline for submissions is April 24, 2018.
We’d actually been asking around about Navdy for the last couple of months, after a number of readers got in touch to point out that the company had gone radio silent on its social accounts and hadn’t been responding to customers with questions and problems.
We’d also heard from a source that the company was shopping itself around.
Doug Simpson, the founder and CEO, himself responded to my most blatant question of all, sent as a message to Navdy’s Twitter account after previous notes got no reply.
“Are you still in business?” I asked.
“Hi Ingrid. Yes of course we are! Weird question but thanks for checking in on us,” Simpson replied. He followed up to see if we’d be interested in hearing about news when there was news to share.
Those emails were dated October 30, four days after the General Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors was made.
We have reached out once again to Simpson, as well as the company’s press contact, to try to get more information. We have also contacted Renault, who is apparently working with the company and one of its strategic investors, Harman, to integrate the Navdy into its cars from next year.
We have also tried to contact several investors. One has confirmed to us that Navdy has not been in touch before or since sending out the liquidation notice to customers.
What’s still not completely clear is if the company is completely shutting down, or about to embark on a pivot of some kind and this is a move to clear the decks.
On November 20, the company’s Twitter account replied to a customer who couldn’t get a response to multiple attempts to contact the company, saying that it was in the middle of a reorganization.


We're here and appreciate your patience while we work through a backlog and reorganization. :)
— navdy (@navdyInc) November 20, 2017



It’s been a long journey for Navdy. The company got its start on Kickstarter in 2014, when its campaign to fund its heads-up display went viral.
The company later moved into more traditional VC fundraising, picking up just under $42 million from investors that included Harman, Qualcomm, Upfront Ventures, Kima and many more.
Its heads-up display eventually launched priced at $799 in 2016, later dropping the price to $499. You can read our full (mostly positive) review here.
But the heads-up display market is very crowded — see the 15 best heads-up displays — and even more so, considering that this isn’t a mainstream product today. Indeed, for many the jury may still be out on whether a display on your windscreen is less or more distracting than other kinds of displays and interfaces. Together, all this makes for a tricky product/market fit.
What Navdy does have is an interesting team of technologists and lots of research and work, and so hopefully this will not be the end of the road for the startup.
We’ll update as we learn more.
Full note sent to customers below:

To whom this may concern:
Navdy, Inc. (“Navdy” or the “Company”) has undertaken an assignment for the benefit of creditors (“Assignment”) as of October 26, 2017 and appointed an Assignee.
“Proof of Claim” notices are a required formality of an Assignment process
Under California law, the Assignee is required to send a notice regarding the Assignment, along with a “Proof of Claim.” These can be found via the link at the bottom of this e-mail for your review and possible response. This notice is a required formality within 30 days of the start of an Assignment in California to determine monies owed by the Company. The Assignee is required to provide a mechanism for any party who may potentially have a claim against the Company to file their claim. That mechanism is a “Proof of Claim”.
Why you were sent a Proof of Claim
A Proof of Claim is being sent to all parties who have interacted with Navdy during the last few years to ensure that, if they believe they have a claim, it is accounted for. So if you purchased products or interacted with Navdy within the last few years, you are being sent this notice. It is not confirmation that you necessarily have a claim.
Proof of Claims are exactly what they sound like. If you believe the Company owed you money prior to October 26, 2017 (Assignment date) and has not paid you, you’ll need to fill out the form and return it per the instructions, before April 24, 2018. The language on the Claim Form is formal and legalistic, but it is a necessary part of the process as we work to resolve the situation.
To review the POC Notice, please click here: Navdy POC Notice – eSubmission
Regards,
Navdy (assignment for the benefit of creditors), LLC


Noah Heller, one of the chief architects of Hulu’s virtual reality strategy, has left the video streaming service to set up his own venture firm, 3Rodeo.
Primarily focused on backing Los Angeles-based technology startups, the new fund has already committed capital to three deals, Heller confirmed.
Variety first reported the news of the new fund’s launch.
For Heller, the former vice president of business development for emerging technology and VR at Hulu, the move to venture capital is also a return to his entrepreneurial roots.
Heller joined Hulu when Vhoto, the startup he co-founded in 2012, was acquired by the streaming service in 2015.
A former entrepreneur in residence at Atlas Ventures, Heller has tapped two other former startup executives to help with the new fund — Picasa chief executive Lars Perkins and RYOT Studio co-founder Molly DeWolf Swenson (RYOT was bought by AOL [now Oath], which owns TechCrunch, in 2016).
“It’s called 3Rodeo, as in this isn’t our first or second rodeo,” Heller tells me.
Heller says the ideal investment size will be between $250,000 and $500,000 and that the firm will focus primarily on seed-stage investments.
Already, it’s managed to pick up some solid early-stage portfolio companies. The firm’s first three disclosed investments include Fair, which looks to radically transform the notion of car ownership with a subscription service; Lighter, a food startup where athletes and nutritionists share recipes and menus; and Mira, which is a company developing a low-cost augmented reality headset to compete with the likes of Microsoft’s HoloLens.
“We’ve seen a lot of shit and that experience builds the ability to find an edge and to front run,” says Heller. Mira, for instance, attracted the likes of Sequoia Capital and Greylock — two of the best-known firms in Silicon Valley, but there was still room at the table for the seasoned entrepreneurs from 3Rodeo, Heller said.
“The main requirement is that we have a partner who is familiar with the technology,” said Heller.
Beyond that familiarity is a belief in the vibrancy of Los Angeles’ growing startup ecosystem.
“I’m really long on this market,” Heller said. “Ever since I’ve worked here for Activision I just felt something about it…the size and the geography is intimidating when you first move here, but when you crack it open it’s a good, solid, dense city.”

Featured Image: CSA-Archive/Getty Images


Researchers at Duke University, OSU and Oak Ridge National Laboratory have solved one of the biggest problems with new forms of quantum encryption: quantum key distribution. QKD is the process of distributing keys during a transmission and in a way that will tell both sides of the conversation that someone is eavesdropping. The new system, which uses lasers to transmit multiple bits at once, can be used to connect and secure quantum computers in the future.
“We are now likely to have a functioning quantum computer that might be able to start breaking the existing cryptographic codes in the near future,” said Daniel Gauthier, a professor of physics at The Ohio State University. “We really need to be thinking hard now of different techniques that we could use for trying to secure the internet.”
Their paper is available here.
Most current QKD systems transmit data “between tens to hundreds of kilobytes per second,” a rate not sufficient for most uses, including chat and telephony. The researchers can inject more information into each photon transmitted by adjusting the release time and the phase, thereby encoding two bits instead of just one. This means they can transmit keys quickly and securely and, more importantly, over fast fiber optic cables.
The system uses off-the-shelf parts and, barring the detectors, nothing unavailable to normal telecommunications providers.
“All of this equipment, apart from the single-photon detectors, exist in the telecommunications industry, and with some engineering we could probably fit the entire transmitter and receiver in a box as big as a computer CPU,” said Duke graduate student Nurul Taimur Islam.

Featured Image: Dennis Wise / UW


Waymo continues to press its lead in terms of actual miles driven on roads, which is potentially the most important metric out there when it comes to building successful autonomous driving technology. The Alphabet-owned company that began life as Google’s self-driving car project around a decade ago now has 4 million miles driven autonomously on roads.
That 4 million miles represents the self-driving effort of Waymo’s entire test fleet, covering its original autonomous vehicles all the way up to its current driverless Chrysler Pacifica minivans, which are actually now testing on Arizona public roads, right alongside everyday human drivers, with no safety driver behind the wheel at all.
Waymo puts the milestone in perspective by noting that it would take a human around 300 years to drive that many miles, if they were driving at the average rate of a person in the U.S. today. Plus, the pace of Waymo’s accumulation of distance driven is ramping up: It managed to gain 1 million miles between just May and November of this year — it took the company six years to rack up its first million, by comparison.
This excludes the 2.5 billion miles that Waymo has “driven” virtually in simulation, and its private testing time on its Castle facility track. The number is one that Waymo isn’t likely to stop talking about anytime soon either — miles driven in real-world conditions is a key ingredient in building a comprehensive, virtual artificially intelligent driver that can operate in service of a commercial driverless ride-hailing service, which Waymo has set as the target for its first public driverless product deployment.


It’s been just ten days since Stitch Fix debuted on the stock market, and it has risen almost 54 percent since that time. It’s an astonishing feat for the  fashion styling business, which got off to a rough start, but quickly turned things around as it started to gain momentum by its third day of trading and soared 24 percent today, better known as “Cyber Monday.”
For those who didn’t watch this highly anticipated IPO, Stitch Fix originally priced its offering at $15, which was below its proposed price range of $18 to $20, even after reducing the size of its offering. It then closed the first day at $15.15, below the opening price of $16.90.  The following day it “broke issue,” closing beneath the $15 IPO price. And all of this was well beneath the $22.61 that the company valued its buyback at last year.
Last Tuesday, however, Stitch Fix changed course, and it’s been on a roll ever since. One possibility for the bullish sentiment could be that investors are predicting a big holiday quarter for e-commerce and this business in particular. Amazon shares have also gone up this week.
Gene Munster, formerly an analyst at Piper Jaffray and now a venture capitalist at Loup Ventures, says it’s “probably a couple of large buyers, and the chart starts working, and people feel like they’re missing something.”
He believes that it mostly boils down to simple supply and demand. Stitch Fix did what’s called a “low float,” meaning it made a relatively low number of shares available for sale — which is often the case with newly public companies.
Still, while there’s often volatility in the days following an IPO, statistics show that what happened with Stitch Fix is highly unusual. Munster says that he “can’t remember when it’s happened like this.”
According to Dealogic, U.S.-listed companies that trade flat on the first day, or within 1 percent above or below the IPO price, are up an average of just 1.6 percent one month following their IPO. This compares to 16 percent gains for other newly listed companies in the same timeframe.
The correlation continues longer term, with flat first-day companies trading up 10.8 percent one-year out from the debut. Other U.S.-listed companies average 20 percent gains between the time of their IPO and the following 12-month period.
That’s why there’s so much scrutiny on the first day “pop,” the term used to describe the gains that are expected to happen on day one. Investment bankers advise companies to price IPOs about 15 to 30 percent beneath their predicted first day performance, sometimes characterized as a “discount” to encourage new investors to buy the stock. It’s also meant to prevent the stock from falling in the following weeks or months.
Because of the perceived importance of the “pop,” bankers often exercise what’s called a “greenshoe option,” where they can buy back shares at the IPO price to save face in the first 30 days. It appears that they did this with Stitch Fix on the first day. In this case, bankers were allowed to buy up to 1.2 million shares.
While it’s certainly too soon to declare Stitch Fix a long-term success, its short-term performance defies the odds. In fact, Kathleen Smith, manager of Renaissance Capital, the IPO ETF, calls this turnaround “rare.” She says that, typically, “breaking your IPO price leaves an imprint.”
!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script"),d=o[0],r=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=r+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var a=e.createElement("script");a.async=1,a.id=s,a.src=i,d.parentNode.insertBefore(a,d)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","//e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");
The bull case for Stitch Fix is that it has built a fast-growing fashion business and did this with little capital. The company raised just a reported $42 million from Benchmark Capital, Lightspeed Venture Partners and Baseline Ventures.
In just six years, co-founder and CEO Katrina Lake has built a company with $977.1 million in annual revenue. She’s also the youngest woman to ever take a company public, according to the Nasdaq.
Stitch Fix has already achieved profitability in some years, although it turned to a small loss of $594,000 for 2017. Last year Stitch Fix saw $33.2 million in net income.
Stitch Fix has become a leader in a growing category of try-it-before-you-buy-it fashion businesses. The company’s mix of algorithms and human stylists help determine which outfits should be sent to regular customers.
Of course, there’s always a bearish case for a stock, too. In this case, some IPO investors were burned on Blue Apron’s rough stock market run and may at first have been wary of anything that looked like subscription commerce. (The people who have access to the IPO price are a different group than typical retail stock market investors. It’s an exclusive group of institutional investors and hedge funders, who are expected to hold their positions to keep the stock stable).
We’re also told that some investors were initially concerned that co-founder and CEO Katrina Lake had planned to sell shares at the time of the IPO, a practice that is sometimes construed as a signal that insiders are less than confident about a company’s longer-term performance.
Lake nixed those plans after reducing the size of the IPO, saying she believed the company should be valued at more than $15.
Other concerns included the company’s short “lock-up” period, with 35 percent of insider shares potentially eligible for sale after just 90 days, dependent on stock performance. Companies typically have employees wait until the 180-day mark because the selling can cause the stock to dip. Additionally, CFO Paul Yee has only been with the company for five months, and the company’s COO, Mike Smith, was just promoted in October. We’ve heard that this spooked some of the IPO buyers.
There were also some fears about decelerating growth and high customer acquisition costs.
Either way, it looks like Stitch Fix’s early gains are a “Christmas present,” says Smith, who calls it  “encouraging to see the stock make these recoveries.”
We talked about the Stitch Fix pricing and more on the latest episode of TechCrunch’s “Equity” podcast.

Featured Image: Nasdaq


Plex confirmed it’s rolling out a new feature that will allow cord cutters to skip the commercials in the TV programs recorded using its software, making the company’s lower-cost solution to streaming live TV more compelling. Unlike other commercial-skip options, Plex’s option will remove commercials from recordings automatically.
The company, which originally offered home media software for organizing personal collections, recently began to serve cord cutters by offering a way to watch live TV streamed via a connected antenna, and record those programs.
Its live TV service isn’t technically the same thing as a live TV streaming service, because it’s capturing signals from a digital antenna in your home, not streaming shows over the internet, as with something like Sling TV. But it does offer an easy way to watch free television from over-the-air broadcast networks like ABC, NBC, Fox, CBS, PBS, CW and others.

Now Plex Pass subscribers will be able to skip the ads.
The new feature works by locating the commercials in your recorded media. It then actually removes them before the media is stored in your library. That sounds like it could be even better than TiVo’s commercial skipping option, for example, because you don’t have to press a button to skip the ads — they’re being pulled out for you, proactively.
Plex’s feature may not be a perfect solution, however. As the blog Cord Cutter News noted (which was first to spot the feature’s arrival), the process could take a long time and cause high CPU usage, according to Plex’s own documentation.
Additionally, the feature is only available in beta for Plex Pass subscribers — that is, those who pay for Plex — for the time being.
To get started, you’ll need to make sure your Update Channel is set to “beta” in order to try it out. (You’ll need to be on the latest version of the software — version 1.10.0.4516, the company tells TechCrunch.)
The “Remove Commercial” option will then appear in the Plex Server Settings for Live TV and DVR.
The option works across all platforms except for FreeBSD and devices that are unable to transcode, we’re also told.
Though still fairly new, Plex’s live TV service has been steadily growing. The company added a streaming news service to its software this September, and as of November 2017, has grown to 15 million registered accounts. It has not said how many of those are paying subscribers, but that number has grown from 13 million in June.


Lucid, one of the companies that looks like it could have the best chance to potentially field a true all-electric competitor to Tesla’s Model S, is moving its headquarters to a new facility in Newark, California — one with twice the space of its current base of operations in Menlo Park.
The new headquarters is intended to give Lucid room to grow as it prepares to launch its Lucid Air, the first car from the company. The Lucid Air is a four-door sport sedan with a top speed of more than 235 mph, power output equivalent to 1,000 horsepower and a target launch date of sometime in 2019.
Lucid’s goal with the car is to design something that can stand on its own, instead of just matching up favorably in a comparison chart with the Model S. The company designed the vehicle from the ground up with a shared use model in mind, creating a luxury vehicle that’s also suitable for a collaborative consumption car-sharing future supplemented by autonomous vehicle technology.
The automaker still cites the “next two years” as a “defining period” for the direction and product development, so it sounds like it’s still on track to make the Air happen in the 2019 time frame. It’ll have some heavyweight company, however — that’s the same target Tesla is shooting for with its $200,000 new Roadster.


There are now 15 million people doing Tom Nook’s grunt work.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp marked Nintendo’s most significant mobile title launch since Mario Run and it seems like the game has already delivered some significant downloads, with data from SensorTower suggesting that the title, which lets users chat with animals, catch fish and shake trees for fruit, has already been downloaded 15 million times in its first six days of availability on Android and iOS.
We’ve reached out to Nintendo for confirmation.
The site also noted that this launch doubled the downloads for Fire Emblem’s mobile launch, but was less than half of download totals for Super Mario Run, which totaled 32 million downloads after six days of availability on the App Store and Play Store.
There are some significant differences here, other than the fact that Mario is, of course, Nintendo’s heaviest hitter IP-wise. Super Mario Run was the first mobile game launch from Nintendo and launched exclusively on iOS, and was picked up by Android only months later. SensorTower’s 32 million download figure for Mario Run captures the first six days of sales on both the App Store and Play Store.

Pocket Camp is certainly a different experiment for Nintendo, given the way it approaches monetization through in-game purchases to expedite gameplay (you can buy “leaf-tickets” to craft furniture so you can make friends… a little odd but Animal Crossing fans are familiar with the bizarre). Pocket Camp is currently ranked 72 among all iPhone apps for revenue on the App Store in the U.S.
Nintendo has detailed Super Mario Run went on to have 200 million downloads, though the company noted it was disappointed by the revenue it earned from the title.
For now, the game is a bit light when it comes to multiplayer gameplay, which is something Nintendo appears to have had trouble leveraging its own IP for compared to Niantic’s all-star showing with Pokémon GO.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp is free and available for download on Android and iOS.


Sadly, not all of the Pixel 2’s surprises have been the good sort since Google’s latest flagship launched. Visual Core is one of the more pleasant ones, though — a custom system-on-a-chip (SoC) that’s just been hanging out in the phone not really doing much of anything. 
It seemed that the component simply wasn’t ready for public consumption when the phone hit the market, but the company’s finally prepared to have the chip start earning its keep. 
A new developer preview of Android 8.1 due out today offers up early support for the Pixel 2/Pixel 2 XL chip. The component is expected to further improve the handsets’ cameras, which were already scoring good marks, production issues aside. 
According to the company, Pixel Visual Core has eight image processing unit (IPU) cores and 512 arithmetic logic units. Using machine learning, the company says it’s able to speed things up by 5x, with one-tenth of the energy. Access to the chip, combined with the Android Camera API, means third-party photo apps will be able to take advantage of the system’s speedy HDR+.
Sounds swell, right? Of course, this is still just an early preview, only available to people who sign up for Google’s Beta program. That means, among other things, dealing with potential bugs of an early build. Google wouldn’t give us any more specific information with regards to when the feature will be unlocked for the public, but it’s expected to arrive along with the 8.1 public beta in December.
And even when the feature is live, it will only be available to Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL owners — though don’t be too surprised if it starts rolling out inside new Android phones down the road.


It looks like Congress won’t be ignoring the recent thoroughly sketchy report that Uber failed to disclose — and made efforts to hide — about a data breach that affected 57 million users in 2016. On Monday, Senator Mark Warner issued a set of questions to the ride-sharing company regarding the hack and its failure to inform both regulators and its own users, even as the company allegedly shared information of the breach with potential investors. So far, the FTC and New York’s Attorney General have also confirmed their interest in investigating the incident to TechCrunch.
“Uber’s conduct raises serious questions about the company’s compliance with relevant state and federal regulations,” Warner writes in the letter.
While Warner’s letter addresses some of Uber’s straightforward cybersecurity failings, it also digs into the deeper question of how the company covered up its breach by paying its hackers to destroy the data they stole, including what kind of “assurances” the hackers provided to the company to demonstrate that they did in fact destroy the data in question. Warner also implies that Uber may have run afoul of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act in its unorthodox effort to track down its hackers and force them to sign non-disclosure agreements.
“To the extent Uber had lawfully acquired information enabling it to identify the hackers who had compromised its systems, ensure they would abide by agreements to delete the data and not to disclose the breach, and transfer them $100,000, it conceivably had enough information at hand to assist law enforcement in the apprehension of these criminals,” Warner writes. “Why did Uber choose not to provide relevant forensic information to law enforcement and has this information been provided to law enforcement in the last week?”
As one of the more tech-savvy members of Congress, Warner is recently best known for his role in the Senate Intel Committee’s Russia investigation. As part of that committee’s ongoing efforts, the senator has aggressively questioned Google, Facebook and Twitter on their roles in disseminating false information from Russian state-sponsored actors. With his letter to Uber, the poster child for tech’s disdain for playing by the rules, Warner appears to be deepening his message that tech may no longer be above the regulations that govern more traditional industries.

View this document on Scribd

Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images


SpaceX filed a new amended update to its $351 million funding round from this summer, adding around $100 million to the round in newly disclosed funds and bringing the total to $450 million. The new follow-on funding puts SpaceX’s total post-money valuation at $21.5 billion.
SpaceX spokesperson James Gleeson provided the following statement regarding the amended filing:
“This filing simply discloses that SpaceX received an additional $100 million of investment as part of the last funding round which was disclosed earlier this summer.”


MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory has teamed up with Harvard’s Wyss Institute to create a super strong, affordable artificial muscle that could be used to create soft robots with “superpowers,” including the ability to lift up to 1000 times their weight.
The new soft robotic artificial muscles are inspired by origami, and can be constructed in as little as 10 minutes with materials generally available that can be acquired for less than $1. The technology uses ‘skeletons’ or basic structural scaffolding which are surrounded by a sealed bag that can then change its motion by creating a vacuum within the bag itself.
The internal skeleton component can be made from a variety of materials, and how it’s constructed (and how it folds) will determine the motion, meaning they can be “programmed” simply and manually by changing how they bend when the skin membrane contracts around the internal structure.
Their relative simplicity, as well as flexibility when it comes to the materials you can use to create them, means that these artificial muscles can range in size from a few millimeters to as much as a full meter in length, with relatively few changes in overall performance. The larger the muscle, the more it can lift, and researchers in the project envision eventually building an elephant robot complete with a trunk that works just like a real elephant’s.
This solution elegantly addresses some of the existing challenges of soft robotic, in terms of the flexibility, strength and limitations of other methods of creating simulated muscles for use in soft robotic applications.
Potential applications for this technology in practice could include medical assistance devices, industrial robotics, space exploration, and various wearable exoskeletons, according to the researchers.


Microsoft Office is now available for Google Chromebook users through the Google Play Store – a notable addition, given the two companies offer competing products in terms of office productivity software. Neither Google nor Microsoft are making a formal announcement about the Office applications’ arrival on Chromebooks. But we understand the Office Android apps will only be free to users with specific devices, while others will need to subscribe to Office 365 to take advantage of the apps.
Chrome Unboxed was the first to spot the arrival of Office via Google Play on Chromebooks.
This is the first time Office has been available to Chromebook users through Google Play as a general release, though a report today from ZDNet notes that some Chromebook users had been previously able to get Microsoft Office from the beta version of the Play Store.
The apps’ arrival is not too surprising, though, as Microsoft had said last year it would make full Android versions of Microsoft Office apps available to all compatible devices when the Google Play Store for Chromebooks exited beta.
As you may recall, Google made Chrome OS capable of supporting Android applications last year, but that support had been limited to select models.
Things began to change in 2017, when the company promised that all new 2017 Chromebook launches would support Google Play. It then delivered on that promise when devices like Samsung’s new Chromebook and, more recently, Google’s flagship Pixelbook arrived.
Despite these changes, Microsoft hadn’t offered an updated timeline for publicly bringing its Office Android apps to Chromebooks. That left some to wonder if the apps’ arrival was still forthcoming, while others explored workarounds.
Now the Office Android apps for Chromebook are here, but there are a few caveats we should note.
For starters, just because all newer Chromebooks now support Google Play, the ability to run Android apps on older models is still limited. (A list of which select devices are able to run Google Play is available here).
In addition, users with devices whose screens are 10.1 inches or larger will need an Office 365 subscription to use the Android apps, ZDNet also pointed out.
Of course, Google’s G Suite is still the more likely choice for a number of Chromebook users, but the ability to use Microsoft Office on a Chromebook makes them a potentially more viable option for businesses using Microsoft’s software.
That could be one reason why Microsoft isn’t making a lot of noise about its Office Android apps now working on Chromebooks. The other is Windows 10 S – the streamlined version of Windows 10 the company is positioning as its Chrome OS competitor.
Microsoft hasn’t (yet) provided a comment on the news of the apps’ arrival. Google declined to comment.

Featured Image: Billy H.C. Kwok/Bloomberg/Getty Images


Fans are stoked for a fourth season of Black Mirror, as they should be. The Emmy-award winning series, which shows the dark side of our inevitable future, does an outstanding job of story-telling while encapsulating an entire plot line in a single episode at a time.
But Netflix is keeping its cards close to the vest.
The streaming giant has yet to announce a release date for Season 4, but that hasn’t stopped Netflix from slowly releasing trailers for individual episodes.
Thus far, trailers for two of the six episodes have been released.
The first trailer is for Arkangel, which was directed by Jodie Foster. The story follows a mother (played by Rosemarie DeWitt) who briefly loses track of her daughter, which understandably gives her a bit of a scare. She signs up to be part of the trial for technology called Arkangel, which presumably tracks her daughter. How could this go wrong?

The second trailer is for an episode called Crocodile, which stars Kiran Sonia Sawar, who plays a doctor trying to help someone recall memories of a car crash through the use of some sort of computer.

The first trailer was released on Saturday, the 25th, and the second was released yesterday, November 26th. This leaves us two options: Netflix is either releasing one per day, which means we’ll get a third trailer in a couple of hours, or it’s releasing one per day on the weekends, which means we’ll be waiting for the third trailer until Saturday.
If I had to guess, I’d expect the release date to be announced following the last trailer. But if Black Mirror has taught us anything, it’s that the future doesn’t always turn out the way you expected.
Update: We now have a trailer for the third episode, Black Museum:


Google confirms it has now addressed an issue that caused the YouTube app to drain the battery excessively when running on iOS devices, even when the app was idle in the background. In some cases, users reported the device would even become heated as a result of the problem, but not everyone experienced this issue.
It’s unclear to what extent the issue affected the combined iOS and YouTube user base, as reports varied. One user said that watching a 15-minute clip degraded usage by over 10 percent, noted one report. Another said that battery life on the iPhone X dropped by 20 percent in over 30 minutes, according to a different report. Many others complained more generally about the problem on Twitter and Reddit.
But TechCrunch editor Matthew Panzarino, who reviewed the iPhone X here in-depth, watches a lot of YouTube and didn’t experience the issue himself.
To what extent users were affected is likely related to app version, however. We understand the problem impacted users on YouTube versions 12.42 and 12.43, specifically, regardless of which version of iOS they were running, or what iOS device they ran the YouTube app on. In other words, it wasn’t just a problem for those who had upgraded to the newest iOS 11 mobile operating system, as some reports had said, nor did it only affect those with Apple’s flagship iPhone, the iPhone X.
YouTube addressed users’ complaints on Twitter earlier this month, promising a fix was on the way.
 


Hi Shivam, we're actively working to fix this! Thanks for your patience.
— Team YouTube (@TeamYouTube) November 13, 2017





Hi there! Appreciate the report, this is something we're actively working on. Thanks for your patience.
— Team YouTube (@TeamYouTube) November 12, 2017



That fix actually rolled out in version 12.44 of the app, which launched on November 14th, Google tells us. But the company didn’t confirm the fix publicly until the release notes in version 12.45, which arrived today. (That’s why it’s only now being reported.)
Given that video watching is one of the most popular activities on mobile devices, the issue was a notable problem for those who were affected.
Google would not say what caused the problem in the first place, only that it was now resolved.


As Verizon’s digital media business Oath rolls on with its merging of Yahoo and Aol (which includes TechCrunch), today comes news of a significant departure. David Karp, who founded and led the Tumblr business, is leaving by the end of the year to be replaced by the social media site’s president and COO, Jeff D’Onofrio.
The news was making the rounds on Twitter, and we have confirmed it with the company directly.
“David Karp will depart Oath by the end of the year,” the spokesperson said in an emailed statement. “David founded Tumblr ten years ago as a space for the world’s creators, and we thank him for his commitment and passion driving the growth of the platform to almost 380 million blogs and over 155 billion posts. Going forward, Jeff D’Onofrio, President and COO of Tumblr, will continue to lead the team.”
And here is Karp’s internal memo, where he refers to his own “personal ambitions” as the reason for the departure.

Oath — which is the combined business of Yahoo and Aol — has seen some layoffs since merging, most earlier this month when just under four percent of staff were let go (equivalent to 560 jobs). This departure we understand is not related to those layoffs.
Notably, Karp didn’t have a specific role publicised when the merger of the companies was closed.
Karp’s departure is a big deal, in no small part because he was synonymous with the brand and the business.

Tumblr was a marquee acquisition by Marissa Mayer when she was CEO of Yahoo, made in 2013 for $1.1 billion as it looked for more growth among younger audiences around the platforms that they liked the most.
At the time, and in months and years subsequent to that, it seemed very much like part of the allure of the startup was Karp himself, who had started Tumblr 11 years ago (as of this year) and found unexpected success with the service, which combined a blog-style format with a social network style feed, where you could follow users and skip around from place to place through links. Tumblr grew on virality and was one of the big driving forces behind the rise of GIFs.
However, there were always questions about how Tumblr would monetise its free-form audience. It also had a persistent problem with NSFW or other explicit content (which it seems to not have eradicated but made it easier to obscure it from view).
More recently, it feels like the world has moved on to other platforms to share their quirky ideas, creative musings and more practical thoughts. Tumblr’s own post traffic — one engine of its growth, the other being traffic coming to consume those posts — has been steadily dropping from less than a year after Yahoo acquired it.
I’m not sure Yahoo, or Oath, ever managed to really turn it into a money machine.
We’ll update this post as we learn more.


Featured Image: Gil C/Shutterstock


Private equity giant Thoma Bravo has agreed today to buy Barracuda Networks in a take-private deal that’s valued at $1.6 billion. The company was offered $27.55 per share, about 16% above Friday’s close.
Though above Barracuda’s 52-week high, the price is down from the over $40 per share where the stock was trading in 2015. Barracuda went public in 2013.
Campbell, California-based Barracuda, which competes with Palo Alto Networks and Symantec, provides security for cloud-connected networks and applications. The company touts clients like Boeing, Microsoft and the U.S. Department of Defense. Barracuda says it has over 150,000 customers.
“We believe the proposed transaction offers an opportunity for us to accelerate our growth with our industry-leading security platform that’s purpose-built for highly distributed, diverse cloud and hybrid environments,” said BJ Jenkins, chief executive officer of Barracuda, in a statement. “We will continue Barracuda’s tradition of delivering easy-to-use, full-featured solutions that can be deployed in the way that makes sense for our customers.”
The deal is expected to close by the end of February.
Founded in 2003, Barracuda Networks raised at least $46 million in venture funding prior to its IPO. Sequoia Capital and Francisco Partners were amongst its largest shareholders at the time it went public.
Thoma Bravo is a Chicago and San Franciso-based private equity giant with $17 billion under management. Other portfolio companies include Compuware, McAfee and SailPoint, which recently went public.
Private equity firms began more aggressively buying up software companies last year, their apparent thinking being that they can generate reliable returns from such investments. The biggest take-private deals in the last 18 months include the sale of U.S. data analytics firm Qlik Technologies to Thoma Bravo for about $3 billion in June 2016; Marketo, a marketing software giant that went public in 2013 and was taken private again by Vista Equity Partners last year for $1.79 billion in cash; and the sale of event-management company Cvent last year to Vista Equity Partners in a $1.65 billion deal.
Morgan Stanley advised Barracuda on the deal. Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and UBS worked with Thoma Bravo.
Here’s a look at Barracuda’s stock chart, since it went public about four years ago.
!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script"),d=o[0],r=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=r+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var a=e.createElement("script");a.async=1,a.id=s,a.src=i,d.parentNode.insertBefore(a,d)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","//e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");

Featured Image: Dmitry Miroshnikov/Getty Images


Google announced today it’s expanding the focus of its Google Trends service – the site that lets anyone track what the world’s web searchers are looking for in both real time and non-real time. The service now includes data from more Google products beyond web search, the company says, with the addition of search data from verticals like Google News, Shopping, Images and YouTube.
The expansion makes sense given that Google searches aren’t just about people typing in keywords into a browser to see a set of standard results as a series of links. Even Google’s search results pages have long reflected the wide variety of possible search results – combining things like videos, images and news items alongside web links has been par for the course for a decade or so, since the launch of Universal Search.

As Google explains in a blog post about the changes to Google Trends, the added data will allow users to explore search results in different ways than was previously possible.
For example, a search for the keywords “Taylor Swift” via Google Trends would have let you drill down into search interest around that topic from web searches, but now you can see things like what related videos people are searching for on YouTube.

To use the feature, you type in your keywords into the Google Trends search box as before, then select the appropriate topic from the autocomplete suggestions. (For example, in Taylor Swift’s case, you’d pick the “singer-songwriter” topic at the top of the list.)
From here, you can dig into the trends from web searches, including filtering by geography or time frame. But you can now also choose from other options via a new filter. Here, you can opt to see data from other Google verticals like Image Search, News Search, Google Shopping and YouTube Search.

This gives you more angles into a search trend. To continue the Taylor Swift example, Google shows how a recent The Tonight Show appearance by the singer may lead to spikes in people searching for her performance on the show on YouTube, or images from that show on Google Images. These are shown as related topics and search interest is indicated with a percentage increase next to each climbing item.
As with web searches, you can use the new tool to see where, geographically, interest is strongest for the given topic across Google’s other verticals.
The Google Trends service is often used by researchers and journalists who use the data to report on major events happening around the world, and their impact on culture. It’s also a more in-depth and granular way to parse Google’s data than what’s provided to advertisers through things like AdWords’ insights into search volumes.
The new filtering options are live now on Google Trends’ website.

Featured Image: Robert Scoble/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


Reliam, a company that provides managed services for businesses that want somebody else to manage their public cloud deployments on platforms like AWS and Microsoft Azure, today announced that it has raised a $17 million funding round from Boston’s Great Hill Partners. Reliam says that Great Hill has reserved a full $75 million to fund additional acquisitions and growth.
In the managed services space, Reliam is an old hand with 16 years of experience and a strong focus on AWS. The company is bringing in some fresh blood as well, though. Simon Anderson, the former CEO of DreamHost, is now Reliam’s new CEO and to some degree, it looks like Reliam will be able to offer the kind of managed services that he wanted to bring to DreamHost, where he also played a vital role in backing the OpenStack ecosystem. After leaving DreamHost, Anderson was entrepreneur-in-residence at Great Hill Partners, so it’s easy to guess how Reliam and Great Hill came to work together on this funding round.
“It’s exciting that my collaboration with Great Hill Partners as Entrepreneur-in-Residence has come to fruition with the investment into Reliam,” said Anderson. “Under founder Nate Johnson, Reliam has created a world-class managed services offering and a loyal (and rapidly growing) customer base. Reliam is poised to play a meaningful role in the next phase of cloud adoption with expanded investment in software tools, solutions architects, cloud engineers, and the AWS partner ecosystem. I look forward to my new position at Reliam.”
One of the hardest things in managed services is scaling up a company. With Great Hill putting some money aside to fund acquisitions, chances are that Reliam will go out and bring a number of smaller players into its fold as it looks to compete with the likes of Rackspace and others.
“I’ve carefully built Reliam to be a platform for growth over the last few years, and it is truly gratifying to secure Great Hill Partners’ expertise and investment,” said Reliam founder and president Nate Johnson. “With this funding, we can build out even more capabilities for cloud managed services to support the explosive adoption of public cloud for all sorts of applications – and utilizing the latest cloud services including serverless computing, machine learning, artificial intelligence and the IoT.”
On top of its managed services (currently for AWS and Azure), Reliam also offers traditional hosting, help with migrations, architecture reviews and support for moving to a modern DevOps model. Unsurprisingly, Reliam also offers support for hybrid deployments.

Featured Image: Bill Hinton/Getty Images


HeadSpin, a mobile application testing service, launched today to give developers a one-stop shop for quality assurance and control for mobile application development.
The company’s co-founder and chief executive, Manish Lachwani, knows the mobile appspace better than almost anyone. The former co-founder and chief technology officer of Appurify (which Google bought), Lachwani previously served as the CTO of game developer Zynga and was a principal architect of the Amazon Kindle — developing the first Kindle OS.
At Appurify, Lachwani was one of the first to use hosted software to test automation with real devices, and the company’s subsequent acquisition by Google helped pave the way for in-house testing services that enabled Google developers to move faster and break fewer things, the company said.
““No one was enabling developers with automated real world testing, pre-release. All the attention was on post-launch monitoring and testing. In addition, testing and performance management solutions provided developers no visibility into the complex user experiences around the world,” Lachwani said. “As a result, developers were not getting ahead of performance or user experience issues.”
HeadSpin is already being used by companies like Tinder, DocuSign, Akamai, Telstra, and Dell. The company’s software provides monitoring of application development before and after an application’s release, the company said.
The company monitors code on devices in real networks; it doesn’t use an SDK so there’s no expansion of an application’s code base.
“Unlike other solutions, HeadSpin’s data driven platform is able to proactively uncover ‘hidden insights’ through learning. This helps us fix our app issues before launch and have something reliable and repeatable to test or measure,” said Maria Zhang, CTO at Tinder, in a statement.

Featured Image: audioundwerbung/Getty Images


A Tel Aviv district court has banned two of Uber’s services in the city following a court ruling in a case between the transportation company, the Ministry of Transportation and the Taxi Driver Union, Reuters reports.
The court specifically banned UberDay and UberNight, the company’s private-car services in Tel Aviv. UberTaxi, which enables passengers to request rides via licensed taxi drivers, is not affected.
In the court, lawyers on behalf of The Ministry and Taxi Driver Union brought up concerns around insurance coverage for riders who choose UberDay or UberNight. The ruling comes after the Ministry of Transportation issued an indictment against Uber in May, alleging Uber was operating without a government license.
UberX, the service that enables everyday people to drive their own cars and pick up passengers for a fee, had already been deemed illegal in Tel Aviv. That’s why Uber launched pilot services UberNight and UberDay, which required passengers to pay the private drivers reimbursement fees for expenses, including fuel.
“While we are ending our UberNIGHT and UberDAY pilots, we will continue to offer UberTAXI in Israel,” an Uber spokesperson told TechCrunch. “We are committed to working with the Israeli authorities to explore how technology can improve our cities with safe and affordable transportation alternatives.”

Featured Image: (Photo by Doug Patricio/Brazil Photo Press/LatinContent/Getty Images)/Getty Images


Over the holiday weekend, The New York Times found that one of its Twitter accounts had been locked. @nytimesworld was frozen for a full 24 hours over an innocuous tweet about a story in which Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau apologized for the country’s treatment of indigenous school children. 
Twitter restored the account Sunday afternoon, apologizing to The Times “for any inconvenience this may have caused.” The service blamed the temporary freeze on human error, but didn’t offer much more by way of explanation. “After reviewing the account, it appears that one of our agents made an error,” Twitter told The Times. “We have flagged this issue so that similar mistakes are not made going forward.”


Left out of an apology a decade ago, native people in Newfoundland and Labrador get an apology from Justin Trudeau https://t.co/BRRIUNCVMw
— New York Times World (@nytimesworld) November 25, 2017



It’s true that mistakes do happen, but this is yet another high-profile bumble for Twitter in a year that’s been filled with them. Last month, the service issued a new set of rules, focused on “unwanted sexual advances, non-consensual nudity, hate symbols, violent groups, and tweets that glorifies violence.” 
The stricter set of guidelines came in the wake of bad publicity for temporarily blocking Rose McGowan from the site, after the actress publicly called out Harvey Weinstein. Twitter later reinstated McGowan’s account, citing her “inclusion of a private phone number.”
Earlier this month, the service promised a rethink of its verification process after giving a blue checkmark to white nationalist Jason Kessler. CEO Jack Dorsey took to the platform to note that the company’s verification system “is broken and needs to be reconsidered.”
This latest self-described human error also comes as the paper finds itself a focal point in President’s Trump’s war on so-called “fake news,” repeatedly calling out “the failing New York Times” by name on Twitter. This morning, the President posted a rambling tweet suggesting a “fake news trophy” for America’s network news.
Trump’s own account was temporarily missing from the service for 11 minutes earlier this month, an act Twitter blamed on the actions of a rogue employee.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


As YouTube reels from a series of scandals related to its lack of policing around inappropriate content aimed at children, obscene comments on videos of children, horrifying search suggestions, and more, a new app called Jellies has arrived to offer parents a safer way to let their kids watch videos on mobile devices.
Jellies was built by Ken Yarmosh, founder of Savvy Apps, which has been making mobile apps for years, largely for clients like PBS, NFL, Homesnap, Navient, Levi’s, and others, in addition to passion projects like mobile calendar app Agenda and Today Weather.
As a parent, Yarmosh says he, too, was afflicted by the problems with YouTube that have recently come to light – namely, that allowing an algorithm to dictate what kids should watch will not lead to the safest environment.
“My oldest child is now five-and-a-half, but when he was two and three, he would love watching videos as many kids do,” explains Yarmosh. “YouTube became basically a non-starter because of the ads and him veering into things he shouldn’t very easily. Once YouTube Kids came out, I thought that would be the solution, so I kind of shelved the idea of Jellies,” he says.
But Yarmosh soon realized that YouTube Kids wasn’t working, either. His child was scared by videos for older kids (like one for “Hotel Transylvania 2”); he became obsessed with toy unboxings and egg surprises leading him to beg for toys; and he watched YouTube stars who demonstrated bad behavior, which impacted the way he acted.

These problems led to the creation of Jellies.
Its solution is complete human curation of video content, combined with a focus on videos that allow kids to explore their world, instead of being force-fed videos designed to promote consumerism, distraction, and bad attitudes. That is, the company’s selection of videos won’t include those with “ego-driven online ‘stars,'” the Jellies website proclaims, nor will it feature those where toys are unboxed or videos with inappropriate ads.
In fact, the app doesn’t include any ads at all.
The company instead chooses to generate revenue through a subscription model, charging $4.99/month for ongoing access to its video collection, which includes the addition of new video playlists on a weekly basis.

The video selection process is something the team at Jellies has thought about carefully. The company referenced The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) guidelines and age-range data from San Francisco non-profit Common Sense Media, to help with its curation process. This helped Jellies to figure out not just which videos make sense for which age groups, but also which topics should be included in its kid-friendly app.
For example, Common Sense Media suggests that videos inspiring creativity and imagination are important for children as young as two, while those that demonstrate good interpersonal skills – like sharing or waiting your turn – should be shown to slightly older kids. Videos that teach good values, like those focused on personal responsibility and ethics, can be brought in around age 5, Common Sense Media says. And older kids can be encouraged to develop critical thinking skills.








As any parent with a YouTube-addicted kid can tell you, the videos children watch can also influence their behavior. The kids begin to imitate the smart aleck-y, sassy YouTube personalities they see online, much to parents’ annoyance. Jellies’ position is that the videos children watch should demonstrate better behavior for kids to mimic. That means there are no YouTube stars on Jellies, and its videos are more educational than sensational.
To create the initial round-up of videos featured in Jellies, video viewers watched thousands of hours of YouTube videos to make sure they fit the company’s criteria. There are now over 3,000 handpicked videos across over 100 topics, with 4-5 being added per week, including seasonal topics.
Some technology helps with video selection, but ultimately human curation is the final deciding factor here.
“While we are developing tech to help, notice computers are last in our list. Yes, we get that the industry believes scale is important and values that highly or solely. We believe safety and quality are more important than algorithms that scale as of now,” says Yarmosh.
Beyond the more careful curation of content compared to what’s found on YouTube, Jellies also introduces a number of controls that put parents in charge of what the kids get to watch. Though a “Parents Model” option, moms and dads can select their kids’ favorite topics for inclusion in the app – like trains, planes, baby animals, sea creatures, and the like, for example. They can also add educational content, like ABCs and Shapes, if they choose, and remove other content as they see fit.

Meanwhile, children use the app in a special “Kids Mode” that lets them move between topics and explore videos, giving them a sense of autonomy even though they’re viewing only parent-approved videos.
Though Jellies does feature videos for school agers, not just preschoolers, it may be hard to pull older kids out of YouTube’s world after having been immersed for years.
It may be easier for parents with younger kids to just present them with Jellies, and never make YouTube watching an option.
A number of apps over the years have tried to offer curated versions of YouTube, but Jellies is hitting at a crucial time – when things have gotten so bad on YouTube’s platform that brands are even freezing their advertising due to its unsafe nature for children. That could help the app find an audience.
Jellies is a free download only on the App Store with the subscription available via in-app purchase.


This holiday e-commerce spending season is off to a flying start after Cyber Monday posted the largest-ever single day of online sales in the U.S. According to Adobe, consumers purchased $6.59 billion online during Cyber Monday, with purchases made on smartphones also breaking a record with $2 billion in sales.
The figures come from Adobe, which has been tracking shopping online in the last few days as retailers officially kick-off of holiday shopping season, the most important time of the year for their businesses. These early days are seen by many as a bellwether for how the next six weeks will play out.
Interestingly, Cyber Monday was the only day in the last five — the ‘start’ of the holiday shopping period that kicks off with the Thanksgiving long weekend, including Black Friday —  that sales totals did exceed Adobe’s estimates. In fact, they fell just slightly short of the $6.6 billion it predicted.
Adobe — which extrapolates its figures by analysing 80 percent of online transactions to the 100 largest web retailers in the country — says that November has so far racked up $50 billion in online revenue, up 16.8 percent increase year-on-year.
2017, it projects, will be the first year to break $100 billion in online sales, which is actually a downward revision from Adobe’s previous figure of $107.4 billion. (As a point of comparison, online sales in the US reached $94.4 billion for the holiday season in 2016.)
Cyber Monday has traditionally been an especially strong day for buying online. The reason: it’s a perfect storm of discounts that kicked off on Friday, combined with people heading back to work after the long weekend, and therefore no longer able to go to physical stores as easily throughout the day to pick up deals. (We run through some of the more interesting bargains for tech products here.)
But interestingly, it seems that perhaps the most enthusiastic buyers came earlier in the weekend, leading to a Cyber Monday that broke records but still was perhaps not as powerful as initially expected.
Overall, Adobe said traffic was up 11.9 percent for the day (season average: 5.7 percent). As with other days in the long weekend, mobile has been very much a part of the story: 47.4 percent of visits (39.9 percent smartphones, the rest tablets), and 33.1 percent of revenues.
Notable in the mobile story is that of smartphone-based browsing and purchases. The record-high of $2 billion in sales made via smartphones was a whopping over 40 percent year-on-year increase: an outsized number compared to the rest of the increases across the board that ran between 10 and 20 percent.
As we’ve seen previously iOS — and specifically the iPhone — continues to lead ahead of Android when it comes to monetizing. Average order values on iOS devices was $123. On Android devices it was $110. Conversions, as you would expect, are also very strong on smartphones this year: mobile transactions are closing at a 12 percent higher rate versus a year ago. It seems that one takeaway might be that if you are making the effort to do your browsing on a smartphone, you must really want an item and you are being less casual about it.
“Shopping and buying on smartphones is becoming the new norm and can be attributed to continued optimizations in the retail experience on mobile devices and platforms,” said Mickey Mericle, vice president, Marketing and Customer Insights at Adobe, in a statement. “Consumers are also becoming more savvy and efficient online shoppers. People increasingly know where to find the best deals and what they want to purchase, which results in less price matching behavior typically done on desktops. Millennials were likely another reason for the dramatic growth in mobile, with 75 percent expecting to shop via their smartphone.”
The season has been record-breaking, both in terms of total sales and how shoppers are making a big shift to mobile to browse and buy.
Thanksgiving generated $2.87 billion in sales, Black Friday $5.03 billion, and “Small Business Saturday” (the latest ‘named’ shopping holiday) brought in $2.82 billion (no name yet, and hence no tracking, for Sunday), all significant rises year-on-year.
On those days, mobile devices accounted for between 46 and 54 percent of all site visits, and between 30 and 37 percent of all sales, said Adobe, the biggest proportion yet.
Interestingly, Adobe said that Small Business Saturday saw the biggest smartphone usage yet, which is somewhat surprising as you might assume that small businesses were more likely to focus on physical store sales (when in actual fact, the state of modern retail rental has led many small business to shift to online-only because rents in high-traffic places are just too high for any business but a big business). It saw smartphone traffic of 46.5% and 56.7% for mobile overall.
As you might expect, Amazon is accounting for the most sales of any single platform. According to Hitwise, the e-commerce giant accounted for 45.1 percent and 54.9 percent of all transactions respectively on Thanksgiving and Black Friday. Hitwise puts the actual numbers at 5.6 million and 7.1 million transactions. We’ve asked for Cyber Monday figures when they come in.
At this moment, Shopify is tracking that there are around $280,000 in sales being made every minute (and in the time I’ve been writing, the number has shot up by about $20,000). As a point of comparison, Shopify noted that at its peak, this year’s Black Friday was generating $1 million in sales each minute.
Top items for purchasing, according to Shopify, are Apparel, Accessories and Housewares (in that order). The “cyber” of Cyber Monday is more related to how you shop than what you shop for: Electronics is the sixth-most-popular category for shopping today, between makeup and food.
Adobe, meanwhile, highlights toys, whose prices are down 18.8 percent since October; computers (discounted 14.7 percent) and TVs (21.1 percent discounted).
Adobe notes that best-selling electronics include many of the usual suspects: Google Chromecast, Apple iPads, Samsung Tablets, Apple AirPods, and Sony Playstation VR. Games and consoles include Super Mario Odyssey, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Xbox One X.
We’ll update this post as we get more data. If you see anything interesting related to shopping stats online — for example global features rather than those exclusively covering the US market — send it our way to tips@techcrunch.com and we’ll roll that in, too.

Featured Image: Ruslan Grumble/Shutterstock


ClimaCell, a weather forecasting technology that uses wireless networks to create incredibly granular predictions, has raised $15 million to develop new products and expand beyond the U.S.
The Boston-based company’s service has broad applications across government and business, offering ways to better prepare for the increasing number of severe weather events that are occurring worldwide.
“Nearly $3 trillion of the U.S. economy’s GDP is at risk due to weather every year and ClimaCell’s technology is poised to help verticals like aviation, insurance, financial services, logistics and defense change that,” said Rich Boyle, a general partner at the investment firm Canaan Partners, which led the new financing for ClimaCell alongside the mobility-focused investment firm Fontinalis Partners.
Founded by Ford Motor Company executive chairman Bill Ford, Fontinalis’ participation reveals how ClimaCell’s technology could play a key role in the development of another industry — autonomous driving.
ClimaCell currently sells a web-based interactive weather map, which provides street-level data on weather conditions and an API, which allows any company to access that map and build additional applications on top of it.
“Fontinalis invests in the most impactful companies across mobility,” said Chris Cheever, co-founder and partner at Fontinalis, in a statement. “ClimaCell’s cutting-edge technology enables the mobility industry to harness weather data in entirely new ways, driving operational efficiencies and unlocking new value for businesses in mobility sub-sectors such as aviation, connected cars, logistics, on-demand services, and many others.”
The company was founded by a former Israeli Defense Forces air force pilot, Shimon Elkabetz, who drew on his own weather-related near-death experience to launch the business. On maneuvers in Israel returning from a mission, Elkabetz flew into a foggy cloud-bank that his traffic control tower said should not be there.
He nearly lost control of the plane and definitely lost sight of the runway, Elkabetz recalled in an interview with Forbes.
From that experience, the Harvard Business School graduate began developing ClimaCell’s technology and services. The company uses information on the interference network providers are facing to determine what kind of weather a city is experiencing, according to Elkabetz.
The technology was compelling enough to attract the interest of an investor group led by the Australian, Israeli and U.S.-focused investment firm Square Peg Capital. “ClimaCell is changing the way massive industries assess, manage and make decisions around weather risk,” said Boyle in a statement.

Featured Image: NASA Goddard Space Flight Center/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


This is software to save lives. Facebook’s new “proactive detection” artificial intelligence technology will scan all posts for patterns of suicidal thoughts, and when necessary send mental health resources to the user at risk or their friends, or contact local first-responders. By using AI to flag worrisome posts to human moderators instead of waiting for user reports, Facebook can decrease how long it takes to send help.
Facebook previously tested using AI to detect troubling posts and more prominently surface suicide reporting options to friends in the U.S. Now Facebook is will scour all types of content around the world with this AI, except in the European Union, where General Data Protection Regulation privacy laws on profiling users based on sensitive information complicate the use of this tech.

Facebook also will use AI to prioritize particularly risky or urgent user reports so they’re more quickly addressed by moderators, and tools to instantly surface local language resources and first-responder contact info. It’s also dedicating more moderators to suicide prevention, training them to deal with the cases 24/7, and now has 80 local partners like Save.org, National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and Forefront from which to provide resources to at-risk users and their networks.
“This is about shaving off minutes at every single step of the process, especially in Facebook Live,” says VP of product management Guy Rosen. Over the past month of testing, Facebook has initiated more than 100 “wellness checks” with first-responders visiting affected users. “There have been cases where the first-responder has arrived and the person is still broadcasting.”
The idea of Facebook proactively scanning the content of people’s posts could trigger some dystopian fears about how else the technology could be applied. Facebook didn’t have answers about how it would avoid scanning for political dissent or petty crime, with Rosen merely saying “we have an opportunity to help here so we’re going to invest in that.” There are certainly massive beneficial aspects about the technology, but it’s another space where we have little choice but to hope Facebook doesn’t go too far.
[Update: Facebook’s chief security officer Alex Stamos responded to these concerns with a heartening tweet signaling that Facebook does take seriously responsible use of AI.


The creepy/scary/malicious use of AI will be a risk forever, which is why it's important to set good norms today around weighing data use versus utility and be thoughtful about bias creeping in. Also, Guy Rosen and team are amazing, great opportunity for ML engs to have impact. https://t.co/N9trF5X9iM
— Alex Stamos (@alexstamos) November 27, 2017



Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg praised the product update in a post today, writing that “In the future, AI will be able to understand more of the subtle nuances of language, and will be able to identify different issues beyond suicide as well, including quickly spotting more kinds of bullying and hate.”
Unfortunately, after TechCrunch asked if there was a way for users to opt out, of having their posts a Facebook spokesperson responded that users cannot opt out. They noted that the feature is designed to enhance user safety, and that support resources offered by Facebook can be quickly dismissed if a user doesn’t want to see them.]
Facebook trained the AI by finding patterns in the words and imagery used in posts that have been manually reported for suicide risk in the past. It also looks for comments like “are you OK?” and “Do you need help?”

“We’ve talked to mental health experts, and one of the best ways to help prevent suicide is for people in need to hear from friends or family that care about them,” Rosen says. “This puts Facebook in a really unique position. We can help connect people who are in distress connect to friends and to organizations that can help them.”
How suicide reporting works on Facebook now
Through the combination of AI, human moderators and crowdsourced reports, Facebook could try to prevent tragedies like when a father killed himself on Facebook Live last month. Live broadcasts in particular have the power to wrongly glorify suicide, hence the necessary new precautions, and also to affect a large audience, as everyone sees the content simultaneously unlike recorded Facebook videos that can be flagged and brought down before they’re viewed by many people.
Now, if someone is expressing thoughts of suicide in any type of Facebook post, Facebook’s AI will both proactively detect it and flag it to prevention-trained human moderators, and make reporting options for viewers more accessible.

When a report comes in, Facebook’s tech can highlight the part of the post or video that matches suicide-risk patterns or that’s receiving concerned comments. That avoids moderators having to skim through a whole video themselves. AI prioritizes users reports as more urgent than other types of content-policy violations, like depicting violence or nudity. Facebook says that these accelerated reports get escalated to local authorities twice as fast as unaccelerated reports.
Mark Zuckerberg gets teary-eyed discussing inequality during his Harvard commencement speech in May
Facebook’s tools then bring up local language resources from its partners, including telephone hotlines for suicide prevention and nearby authorities. The moderator can then contact the responders and try to send them to the at-risk user’s location, surface the mental health resources to the at-risk user themselves or send them to friends who can talk to the user. “One of our goals is to ensure that our team can respond worldwide in any language we support,” says Rosen.
Back in February, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg wrote that “There have been terribly tragic events — like suicides, some live streamed — that perhaps could have been prevented if someone had realized what was happening and reported them sooner . . .  Artificial intelligence can help provide a better approach.”
With more than 2 billion users, it’s good to see Facebook stepping up here. Not only has Facebook created a way for users to get in touch with and care for each other. It’s also unfortunately created an unmediated real-time distribution channel in Facebook Live that can appeal to people who want an audience for violence they inflict on themselves or others.
Creating a ubiquitous global communication utility comes with responsibilities beyond those of most tech companies, which Facebook seems to be coming to terms with.

Featured Image: Three Images/Getty Images




A few years ago jailbreaking your iPhone was all the rage. The cat-and-mouse game of hackers versus Apple was great fun and some of the open source products available to jailbreakers – namely the Cydia alternative app store – added amazing features and customizability to the iPhone. Some devs even launched only on jailbroken phones, thumbing their noses at Apple’s walled garden.
Now, however, the jailbreak community is shriveling up and blowing away. Now two major repositories have closed, leaving very little for the active jailbreaker to install and run.
First ModMyi has closed, announcing that it didn’t make economic sense to maintain the repository:
After ModMy, Mobile Nations (ModMy’s parent company) and SaurikIT finished our discussions, there was a clear but sad result to the issue of Cydia and repositories. ModMyi was not plausible to keep going as server costs were insane and the money the repository generated was way below the required amount to keep the repository, not with an economic gain, but to even keep it non-profit.
Second, MaCiti closed last week, the result of a “death spiral” in jailbreak popularity.


Damn.  It’s sad to see a great repo go. Thanks for all you guys did @macciti was indeed a great ride https://t.co/lKogrmYD8D
— Rick Fayad (@Subywrex) November 18, 2017



The latest iOS version has not been jailbroken and, given the insecurities of running a jailbroken phone including unwanted terminal access into the phone itself, it’s not likely many will adopt it. Even the most popular service, JailBreakMe is sitting idle. That said, true fanatics aren’t giving up.
“With all the talking going around about ‘jailbreaking being dead’ or how it’s dying, I’m here to reassure everyone that this subreddit’s discord is still active every day,” wrote Aaronp613 on Reddit. “I know times have been a bit tough for everyone, but that just means we need to focus on what we have at the moment.”


Blockchain investment firms are the ‘new new thing’ in the investment world, not least European companies like kryptonite1 and neufund which are both appearing at TechCrunch Disrupt in Berlin next week. If the internet came along in the 90s to move information assets around, blockchain technologies present potential for a variety of assets, with the potential to disrupt the financial services industry.
Now there’s a new kid on the block-chain (badum-tish!). Cambrian Asset Management claims to have a new take on the space, employing a research-driven, rules-based system to manage a portfolio of digital assets, including Bitcoin, Ethereum and others.
Cambrian’s fund is going to be aimed at family offices, VCs, hedge funds, endowments etc and similarly sophisticated investors which want long-term capital appreciation as the blockchain industry evolves and low exposure to high risk investments, as the company only intends to invest in the 70 or 80 top-tier blockchain startups.
Cambrian was founded by Internet 1.0 tech exec and investor Martin Green, hedge fund portfolio manager Jay Posner and three-time, VC-backed founder and active blockchain investor Adam Jackson.
Cofounder Adam Jackson told me: “Even though Bitcoin and Ethereum have had incredible gains this year, we believe it is still very early days in blockchain as assets move onto the Internet via blockchains.”
He says the company aims to hold a broad portfolio of tokens (BTC, ETH and dozens of others) which must meet certain liquidity requirements. They also plan research to root out frauds and scams. He has some experience already, being an active investor in 30+ tokens over the last year. “We believe in a research-driven, systematic, rules-based methodology to allocate capital in proportion to the relative value of each holding. Investors should maximize long-term returns, no matter which blockchains “win”.”
Jackson believes they will be “very different” from the other 70+ firms in the space, because many are either VC-style funds with early ICO access trying to “pick” winners. “A few of these will do well but history shows most will not successfully pick the winners,” he told me.


YouTube is firefighting another child safety content moderation scandal which has led several major brands to suspend advertising on its platform.
On Friday investigations by the BBC and The Times reported finding obscene comments on videos of children uploaded to YouTube.
Only a small minority of the comments were removed after being flagged to the company via YouTube’s ‘report content’ system. The comments and their associated accounts were only removed after the BBC contacted YouTube via press channels, it said.
While The Times reported finding adverts by major brands being also shown alongside videos depicting children in various states of undress and accompanied by obscene comments.
Brands freezing their YouTube advertising over the issue include Adidas, Deutsche Bank, Mars, Cadburys and Lidl, according to The Guardian.
Responding to the issues being raised a YouTube spokesperson said it’s working on an urgent fix — and told us that ads should not have been running alongside this type of content.
“There shouldn’t be any ads running on this content and we are working urgently to fix this. Over the past year, we have been working to ensure that YouTube is a safe place for brands. While we have made significant changes in product, policy, enforcement and controls, we will continue to improve,” said the spokesperson.
Also today, BuzzFeed reported that a pedophilic autofill search suggestion was appearing on YouTube over the weekend if the phrase “how to have” was typed into the search box.
On this, the YouTube spokesperson added: “Earlier today our teams were alerted to this profoundly disturbing autocomplete result and we worked to quickly remove it as soon as we were made aware. We are investigating this matter to determine what was behind the appearance of this autocompletion.”
Earlier this year scores of brands pulled advertising from YouTube over concerns ads were being displayed alongside offensive and extremist content, including ISIS propaganda and anti-semitic hate speech.
Google responded by beefing up YouTube’s ad policies and enforcement efforts, and by giving advertisers new controls that it said would make it easier for brands to exclude “higher risk content and fine-tune where they want their ads to appear”.
In the summer it also made another change in response to content criticism — announcing it was removing the ability for makers of “hateful” content to monetize via its baked in ad network, pulling ads from being displayed alongside content that “promotes discrimination or disparages or humiliates an individual or group of people”.
At the same time it said it would bar ads from videos that involve family entertainment characters engaging in inappropriate or offensive behavior.
This month further criticism was leveled at the company over the latter issue, after a writer’s Medium post shone a critical spotlight on the scale of the problem. And last week YouTube announced another tightening of the rules around content aimed at children — including saying it would beef up comment moderation on videos aimed at kids, and that videos found to have inappropriate comments about children would have comments turned off altogether.
But it looks like this new tougher stance over offensive comments aimed at kids was not yet being enforced at the time of the media investigations.
The BBC said the problem with YouTube’s comment moderation system failing to remove obscene comments targeting children was brought to its attention by volunteer moderators participating in YouTube’s (unpaid) Trusted Flagger program.
Over a period of “several weeks” it said that five of the 28 obscene comments it had found and reported via YouTube’s ‘flag for review’ system were deleted. However no action was taken against the remaining 23 — until it contacted YouTube as the BBC and provided a full list. At that point it says all of the “predatory accounts” were closed within 24 hours.
It also cited sources with knowledge of YouTube’s content moderation systems who claim associated links can be inadvertently stripped out of content reports submitted by members of the public — meaning YouTube employees who review reports may be unable to determine which specific comments are being flagged.
Although they would still be able to identify the account being associated with the comments.
The BBC also reported criticism directed at YouTube by members of its Trusted Flaggers program, saying they don’t feel adequately supported and arguing the company could be doing much more.
“We don’t have access to the tools, technologies and resources a company like YouTube has or could potentially deploy,” it was told. “So for example any tools we need, we create ourselves.
“There are loads of things YouTube could be doing to reduce this sort of activity, fixing the reporting system to start with. But for example, we can’t prevent predators from creating another account and have no indication when they do so we can take action.”
Google does not disclose exactly how many people it employs to review content — reporting only that “thousands” of people at Google and YouTube are involved in reviewing and taking action on content and comments identified by its systems or flagged by user reports.
These human moderators are also used to train and develop in-house machine learning systems that are also used for content review. But while tech companies have been quick to try to use AI engineering solution to fix content moderation, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg himself has said that context remains a hard problem for AI to solve.
Highly effective automated comment moderation systems simply do not yet exist. And ultimately what’s needed is far more human review to plug the gap. Albeit that would be a massive expense for tech platforms like YouTube and Facebook that are hosting (and monetizing) user generated content at such vast scale.
But with content moderation issues continuing to rise up the political agenda, not to mention causing recurring problems with advertisers, tech giants may find themselves being forced to direct a lot more of their resources towards scrubbing problems lurking in the darker corners of their platforms.

Featured Image: nevodka/iStock Editorial


After spinning out as a standalone security business from Intel earlier this year, McAfee has made its first acquisition. The company has acquired Skyhigh Networks, a specialist in cloud security, the companies announced today.
The financial terms of the deal have not been disclosed, but here are a few data points: Skyhigh had raised over $106 million in funding, according to Crunchbase, most recently a Series D round a year ago, with its investors including Sequoia, Greylock and Salesforce. PitchBook, meanwhile, puts its most recent funding round at $400 million, one marker for the potential value of this deal.
The deal is a sign of the ongoing trend for consolidation in the security industry, where smaller players are coming together under larger businesses to provide more security services under one roof. This makes sense on a couple of levels.
For one, the issue of cybersecurity has become one of the most persistent in the market today, with malicious hacking a nightmare not just for businesses but individuals as more and more of our personal and not-so-personal information becoming digitised and moving to the cloud, putting it in the reach of both criminals and destructive pranksters.
In the case of Skyhigh, McAfee — whose legacy business is in endpoint security — is specifically acquiring the company for that cloud expertise. Skyhigh CEO Rajiv Gupta will head McAfee’s cloud business unit.
The other is the nature of how security services is evolving: we’re seeing a big shift to the use of data analytics and machine learning and other kinds of AI to be able to identify, track and stop cybercrime. Bringing together different services that can use and improve the bigger data pool makes all of those services stronger, potentially.
“Skyhigh Networks had the foresight five years ago to realize that cybersecurity for cloud environments could not be an impediment to, or afterthought of, cloud adoption,” Chris Young, CEO of McAfee, said in a statement. “They pioneered an entirely new product category called cloud access security broker (CASB) that analysts describe as one of the fastest growing areas of information security investments of the last five years – where Skyhigh continues to innovate and lead. Skyhigh’s leadership in cloud security, combined with McAfee’s security portfolio strength, will set the company apart in helping organizations operate freely and securely to reach their full potential.”
It’s not clear if Skyhigh was profitable, and where it stood on its funding, but this will be coupled with more investment into its business by McAfee, which was valued at $4.2 billion at the time of its spinout from Intel in April.
“Becoming part of McAfee is the ideal next step in realizing Skyhigh Networks’ vision of not simply making the cloud secure, but making it the most secure environment for business,” Gupta said in a statement. “McAfee will provide global scale to further accelerate Skyhigh’s growth, with the combined company providing leading technologies and solutions across cloud and endpoint security – categories Skyhigh and McAfee respectively helped create, and the two architectural control points for enterprise security.”
Skyhigh Networks already has produces in the areas of SaaS, PaaS and IaaS and a range of cloud-based security services around policy control both for apps in the cloud and on premises. We should expect to see more of that now being marketed to McAfee’s current roster of customers.
The deal is expected to close pending regulatory approvals and other closing conditions.

Featured Image: Blue Island/Shutterstock


Snapchat is rolling out new filters that can recognize what’s in your photos in order to suggest graphics, like borders or stickers, to accompany your posts. These filters today are capable of recognizing images of objects like pets, sports, and food, as well as specific locations, like beaches or concerts.
The quiet release of the new filters was first spotted by Mashable, which confirmed the rollout with a company spokesperson.
The filters will appear as options in the carousel of filters after the user takes a photo matching one of the above categories, the report also noted.
The addition is an extension of Snapchat’s existing smart filters, including those that are based on where you are at the moment, also known as geofilters. Before, the smart filter carousel had featured smart filters that would show things like time, temperature or speed, but these have now been moved to the creative tool bar, where they’re available as stickers.
Being able to identify what’s in a photo in order to suggest filters could impact Snap’s advertising business in the future, as brands could target users based on the images they’re capturing, instead of just targeting a location or set of interests, as they do now. The company had also filed a patent for an advertising system patent back in 2015, which was published last July, the report said.



Object recognition is a standard for many of today’s photo-sharing apps, including Apple’s Photos app, Google Photos, Amazon’s Prime Photos, and more. But in most cases, it’s been put to use to help surface photos of a certain nature, not to suggest ways to augment those photos with stickers and other decorations, with the more recent exception of Microsoft’s Skype, which added a similar feature called “Photo Effects” earlier this month.
This is not the first time Snapchat has offered image recognition capabilities, though. The company already lets users search across Stories by keywords for the objects in question (like “dogs”), or to search through their Snapchat Memories.
The launch of the filters comes just ahead of a significant redesign of the Snapchat application, which will focus on making the app easier to use for older people, while also sorting the Stories feed algorithmically, instead of in reverse-chronological order as it does now.
Image credits: Mashable

Featured Image: LIONEL BONAVENTURE/Getty Images


Anything you can do, AI can do better. Eventually.
On October 12, NASA put on its own demonstration, pitting an AI-piloted racing drone against world-renowned drone pilot Ken Loo.
Researchers at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, who have spent the last two years working on drone autonomy (which was funded by Google), built three custom drones equipped with cameras for vision and algorithms that would help them fly at high speeds while still avoiding obstacles.
The drones, named Batman, Joker, and Nightwing, used algorithms that were integrated with Google’s Tango technology, which helps AI map out 3D spaces.
These drones could fly up to 80mph in a straight line, but on this particularly cramped course, were only able to hit 40mph.
In a press release, NASA explained the pros and cons of both the autonomous drones and the human pilot. While the AI-powered drones were able to fly more consistently, they were also more cautious and, at times, ran into problems with motion blur at higher speeds. On the other hand, Loo was able to learn the course after a few laps and fly with much more agility than the autonomous drones, but is susceptible to fatigue.
“This is definitely the densest track I’ve ever flown,” Loo said in the release. “One of my faults as a pilot is I get tired easily. When I get mentally fatigued, I start to get lost, even if I’ve flown the course 10 times.”

Long story short, the AI and the human started out with similar lap times, but Loo eventually won out and ended up with a faster average lap time than the AI.
The implications here are big: autonomous drones may eventually be used for surveillance, emergency response, or inventory in warehouses.


European VCs are getting tired, and who can blame them. Europe’s startup industry has boomed in the last ten years, and no-one can say it isn’t a world away from what it was in previous decades. However, European founders are consistently getting it wrong in how they allocate options and equity to staff. This is have a few major effects. It’s stopping startups from attracting the talent they need out of bog corporates and the tech giants. It’s also constraining how the wealth is shared around on exit, and thus how many people go on to become entrepreneurs themselves.
Everyone (by now at least) should be aware of the PayPal Mafia (Elon Musk anyone?) or the Skype Mafia. But why are there not more ‘mafia’s’ being created in Europe, and faster? European VCs won’t say it out loud, but they are fed up. Tired of startups where only one or two people (the founders) become millionaires, slow the scaling of the company, hold it back from attracting talent and tired of Europe not creating more entrepreneurs from these early employees.
It’s time to change that culture, and today two major European VCs have mounted an assault on the issue.
The first is Index ventures.
Realising that Founders were relying on old posts by US VCs like Fred Wilson or perhaps Seedcamp to work out how much in share options they should allocate to employees, Index has gone ahead and done a huge amount of research into the area.
If we want to produce the next wave of global tech giants then giving employees ‘a greater stake in the game’ is Index’s view. In their new report, “Rewarding Talent” they’ve found there is an uneven playing field holding European founders back.
But the real kicker to the report is that Index is also launching OptionPlan, an online web app for entrepreneurs to design their own stock option plans. This is not live yet. It will be released on Thursday, 30 November 2017. I’ve seen the app ahead of launch, and it might just be the most useful tool for founders I’ve seen in a long time!
Martin Mignot, partner at Index Ventures says, “Access to talent is the single most important ingredient for creating transformative tech companies, which is why we are calling on European governments to help level the playing field for our ambitious entrepreneurs by creating the right conditions to support and incentivise employee ownership. Attracting the best talent is the biggest focus for all entrepreneurs and should be the singular focus of all governments who seek to support innovation, entrepreneurialism and job growth.”
Why should they do this? Well, the competition from big companies is just too strong now.
Index Ventures founding partner Neil Rimer says: “Europe is on the cusp of greatness, but risks coming short of building companies the size of Amazon, Facebook and Google if it cannot compete for the talent it needs.”
The report’s underlying research is extensive. It has analysis of over 4,000 individual option grants from more than 200 startups across Europe and the US; cap table analysis by funding round across 73 companies in the Index European portfolio; a Survey of ESOP practices completed by executives from 53 European startups and former startups, representing over 11,000 employees; in-depth interviews with founders, CFOs and executives of 27 Index-backed European companies from seed stage to post-IPO; and a review of regulatory and tax policy in the US and other key European markets, supported by Taylor Wessing and Wilson Sonsini.
The report found that:

On average, employees own 20% of late-stage start-ups in the US, versus 10% in Europe.

Employee equity is less consistently on offer to employees in Europe, with two-thirds reserved for executive level employees in contrast to the US where the reverse is true.


There is also disparity in Europe when it comes to how deeply technical the business is, with those in AI or enterprise software significantly more likely to receive such benefits than those in e-commerce, for example.


In other words, European employees are not being encouraged by the low options they are receiving, European founders are not offering is as much as their US counterparts, and less technical employees not being treated as equally, hampering the growth of the eco-system.
Index says there are three main factors preventing greater adoption of employee ownership as a means to secure talent in Europe. Firstly, governments must create the right conditions to encourage broader employee ownership.
Index found that European employees are often being penalised for their stock options in the startup they work at. In much of Europe, employees must pay a high strike price and are heavily taxed on exercise as well as sale, with those leaving often receiving nothing. The US is totally different and stock options are supported and encouraged by more favourable tax policies.
National tax policies across Europe are also working against giving employees options. Index Ventures’ cross market analysis shows that the UK tops the rankings for creating the best conditions in Europe for start-ups, scoring higher even than the US. France and Ireland also show well. However, in Germany and Spain the figures are much worse, and these countries will need to work on this area if they are to encourage the development of startups.
The financial benefits of employee ownership are also being lost in the conversation. Index found that European workers still do not expect stock options much of the time. Lastly, Index found that European entrepreneurs have to date suffered from a lack of information on the level of ownership incentives offered by their counterparts in Europe and the US.
Mignot also told me their research found that the EMI options scheme is more forward thinking in the UK than the US. “If ever a European country emulated the UK’s scheme then whole of Europe would be world class and would trigger talent moving from traditional corporates to startups,” he said
“There are a crop of companies coming through who will be big, like Deliveroo, but in order to get the next generation, of startups, what’s holding us back is our ability to attract and retain talent. Looking long term, staff with options will spread through the ecosystem. Criteo made 50+ millionaires, and all are now funding other startups or starting them. This is critical.”
Secondly, today Balderton Capital has released its own report on Employee Equity which outlines why startups should give equity to employees; how equity compensation works and why it should be used; how to engineer a fair and efficient plan; and how to navigate the many complex issues that implementation in different European companies.
This huge 59 page long deck has practical spreadsheets that address many dimensions of such a program such as how to evaluate and present the value of a given stock grant; how to model the vesting of a grant; how to establish a grant refresh program; and how to present the equity program and gain approvals from the company board of directors.
As you can tell, investors are worried about this. They are worried that corporates and huge tech giants like Google and Facebook will use huge salaries to lure the talent away from startups where they might get equity. But for startups to work, that equity has to be attractive. Founders need to understand how to allocate it well, and governments need to start legislating to encourage it if European startups are to flourish.
If things go well, then Europe will get the same flywheel effect you see in Silicon Valley. You get more advocates for the tech ecosystem, then you can optimise for long-term value and encourage policy makers to incentivise startups.
Plus, of course it also means you can encourage a corporate employee to find out how much they might get on the upside by joining a startup…

Featured Image: Hiroshi Watanabe/Getty Images


Image-hosting site turned meme social network, Imgur, is the latest tech service to ‘fess up to a security breach. In a blog post Friday it revealed that hackers had compromised its systems in 2014, with ~1.7M emails and passwords affected.
No additional information was apparently compromised in the breach.
“Imgur has never asked for real names, addresses, phone numbers, or other personally-identifying information (“PII”), so the information that was compromised did NOT include such PII,” it emphasizes.
While the hack occurred three years ago, Imgur says it only came to light on November 23 — when it was contacted by security researcher, Troy Hunt, who had been sent the stolen data as a consequence of running the haveibeenpwned data breach notification service.
Hunt has since tweeted to confirm that the majority of the stolen credentials were already in his database (although he appears to have tweeted the wrong date for the Imgur hack):


New breach: imgur was hacked in 2013. 4 years later, 1.7M records with email addresses and cracked passwords surfaced. 60% were already in @haveibeenpwned. Read more: https://t.co/uTfmTUpXDJ
— Have I been pwned? (@haveibeenpwned) November 25, 2017



Imgur hasn’t confirmed how the breach occurred as yet — saying it’s still investigating. Although it does note that in 2014 it was using an older hashing algorithm (SHA-256) for encrypting passwords in its database, and suggests the hackers could thus have decrypted the stolen credentials using a brute force attack.
“We updated our algorithm to the new bcrypt algorithm last year,” it adds.
Sad to say, data breach disclosures are an all too regular occurrence these days.
And a breach affecting 1.7M users appears almost modest in comparison beside some of the recently disclosed mega-hacks.
Principally, Yahoo’s massive hacks in 2013 and 2014 — which apparently affected all 3 billion of its accounts.
But also just last week Uber disclosed a huge hack that compromised the personal data of 57M Uber users and drivers.
What is notable here is the apparent speed of disclosure. So while Imgur says it only became aware of the hack on November 23, by the morning of November 24 it had begun notifying impacted users (via their registered email address), and forcing password resets.
It also made a public disclosure of the breach via its blog post on November 24, at 4PM PST.
Compare that with Uber — which kept quiet about a massive October 2016 breach for the best part of a year, having learned that hackers stole the user data in November 2016.
In Uber’s case, the compromised information also included PII (names, addresses, phone numbers and around 600,000 US drivers’ licenses). So the associated risks to users — such as ID theft — is greater.
Another thing to note is that new rules incoming in the European Union will set a data breach disclosure standard of 72 hours from May next year. And under the GDPR data controllers will also face far stiffer penalties for failing to comply.
So, for example, under Europe’s incoming rules the recent breach disclosed by Equifax — affecting ~143M consumers, including some in Europe, and including names, addresses, dates of birth, Social Security numbers, drivers’ licenses and (for a subset) credit card info — could have resulted in a fine as high as $68.5M, based off of projections for the company’s full year revenue for 2017.
Whereas companies that disclose breaches promptly — as Imgur appears to have done here — will be at far lower risk of being slapped with large fines under GDPR, if they are also handling European citizens’ data.
So perhaps, as the financial risks of storing and handling user data step up, we’ll start to see more data breaches disclosed promptly. While, over time, EU lawmakers’ hope is there will be fewer major breaches occurring as security and data protection gets given far more executive priority.


Video is what consumers are paying attention to these days, and Amazon’s AWS is hoping to capitalise on that with one of its latest launches. Doubling down on its video services for media companies, app publishers — and actually any other organization that has considered launching a video service — Amazon today announced a new suite of five video processing tools as part of AWS Media Services, cloud-based tools to help build, service and monetise video streams.
The new launch puts it into competition to some extent with the likes of Google’s YouTube and its efforts to work with media companies and other creators to build and host live streams and ad-based videos. Interesting timing, given all the negative press YouTube has had over the kind of content that it’s been hosting over the years.
The company also appears to refer to the product AWS Elemental Media Services. The “Elemental” in the name comes from AWS’s video business, formed largely on the back of its acquisition of Elemental Technologies for around $500 million in 2015, and supplemented with additional IP and talent by way of other purchases, including ThinkBox Software earlier this year.
The idea of AWS’s Media Services — announced on the eve of its big re:Invent conference, along with a big mixed reality push in the form of a new platform called Sumerian — is fairly disruptive for the video industry.
Up to now, building services like targeted advertising around a video stream required integrating with third-party providers. Similarly, to account for boosts in traffic, providers had to build in costly equipment to handle the capacity. Amazon’s aim is to take that out of the hands of the video providers, letting them essentially offload it to AWS, and its cloud — a vastly reducing the pricing for using such tools, as well as making it easier to use them full-stop.
“For the better part of six decades, professional-grade video workflows were limited to a few major industry players who could afford to build and maintain customized infrastructure that would be updated only once or twice each decade,” said Alex Dunlap, GM at AWS Elemental, in a statement. “These companies spent a great deal of time, money, and focus operating infrastructure with resources that could have been better spent creating great content and viewer experiences. We built AWS Elemental Media Services to let customers focus on delivering top-quality video reliably to any device, everywhere, without the undifferentiated heavy lifting of managing infrastructure. This not only helps traditional video providers innovate faster, but it also opens up new opportunities for startups, government agencies, schools, and multinational enterprises that, before today, had limited access to premium-quality video technology.”
Video, however, is a medium that any publisher working in digital cannot ignore, either, if it’s hoping to find as many ways as possible to connect with people. According to figures from Zenith, online video viewing globally will rise 20% in 2017, to an 47.4 minutes a day viewing videos. Mobile video in particular is fuelling that boost, with the most growth compared to desktop.
Amazon says that companies using the new tools include BT, Pac-12 Networks, Amazon Prime Video, Fox Sports Australia, fuboTV, Nine, Spuul, M2A Media, Cinépolis, and IMAGICA.
Notably, Netflix — a huge customer for Amazon on the video hosting front — is not mentioned.
The five services cover different aspects of creating, streaming and making money off of videos:
AWS Elemental MediaConvert will let publishers format and compress video-on-demand content “for delivery to virtually any playback device, with high-quality video transcoding and broadcast-level features.”
AWS Elemental MediaLive will let publishers encode broadcast-grade live video for TV or connected devices.
AWS Elemental MediaPackage will help producers prepare “and protect” live video streams with extra tools such as immediate playback.
AWS Elemental MediaStore is a storage service for video (how could an AWS service not have this, I ask?)
AWS Elemental MediaTailor lets you monetize the videos with targeted (personalised) advertising. It’s not clear where the advertising tech is coming from here (we’re still looking) but it’s interesting to me to see Amazon moving deeper into this area, as it upends and directly competes with Google’s YouTube and its services for video creators.
The service is launching today after running in a closed preview for a while now with the above customers. Those using it can also integrate it with other AWS services, Amazon said: “AWS Direct Connect and AWS Snowball for content ingestion; Amazon CloudFront for content delivery; Amazon CloudWatch for monitoring; and Amazon Rekognition for artificial intelligence.” Let the Hunger Games begin.

Featured Image: Thomas Cloer/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE


The Nordic Web, a research and analysis company which specialises in covering data on tech companies emerging out of the Nordic region, has started a new Angel fund. The fund will invest across Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
Founder Neil Murray says ‘The Nordic Web Angel Fund’ plans to invest in 10-15 Nordic startups over the next 12 months. He claims this would make it one of the most active funds in the region.
LPs backing the venture include some high profile names from the region such as Thomas Madsen-Mygdal (TwentyThree), Linda Liakus (Hello Ruby) and Johan Brand (Kahoot!) as well as VC investors from around Europe, such as Martin Mignot (Index Ventures), Christoph Janz (Point Nine Capital) and Philipp Moehring and Andy Chung (both of AngelList Europe).
Murray says he has secured over 50 LPs backers with mix of location, gender and experience. A full list is here.
In a statement he said: “By leveraging the expertise and knowledge of our investors in the fund, we can offer unrivalled support in helping early-stage Nordic startups, with access to a whole community behind them. Due to the explosion of capital and interest in the Nordics in the last five years, we are now beginning to see early entrepreneurs leave companies and start their own. However, they typically remain under-the-radar due to their personal profiles not being known by institutional investors. The fund discovers and backs these companies.”
Mignot said: “I’ve seen the vital role that The Family has had in supporting and accelerating the Paris ecosystem and I believe this can have a similar impact in the Nordics.”
Murray told TechCrunch that Philipp Moehring from AngelList helped raise the fund and take care of all the back-end and legals. “I believe I am one of the first in Europe to take advantage of this,” he added.


The UK government has announced it will introduce draft legislation in the spring aimed at preventing unsafe or criminal use of drones.
Last year it ran a public consultation that recommended addressing safety, security and privacy challenges around drone technology.
Among the measures planned for the forthcoming Drone Bill plus secondary legislation amendments the government has planned are new powers for police to order an operator to ground a drone if it’s deemed necessary.
Police will also be able to seize drone parts to prove it has been used to commit a criminal offense, the government said yesterday.
It had already announced its intention to set out a registration plan for drones weighing 250 grams or more. Yesterday it reiterated that the incoming legislative changes will mean drone owners are required to register their devices.
They will also have to sit safety awareness tests, as well as being required to use certain apps — “so they can access the information needed to make sure any planned flight can be made safely and legally”.
In a statement, aviation minister Baroness Sugg said: “Drones have great potential and we want to do everything possible to harness the benefits of this technology as it develops. But if we are to realize the full potential of this incredibly exciting technology, we have to take steps to stop illegal use of these devices and address safety and privacy concerns.”
“Do not take this lightly — if you use a drone to invade people’s privacy or engage in disruptive behaviour, you could face serious criminal charges,” added assistant chief constable Serena Kennedy, the National Police Chiefs’ Council Lead for Criminal Misuse of Drones, in another supporting statement.
While the UK currently has a Drone Code intended to encourage drone operators to fly safely and responsibly, there have still been multiple reports of near misses between drones and aircraft — and the government clearly feels the code needs to be backed up by new laws and powers.
Yesterday it said it is considering whether to ban drones from flying near airports or above 400 feet — noting these measures could form part of the new regulations.
Safety research it published this summer found that drones weighing 400 grams or more can damage the windscreens of helicopters.
It added that it is also continuing to work “closely” with drone manufacturers to use geofencing technology to prevent drones from entering restricted zones — such as military sites.
Another problematic use of drone tech that has emerged is for smuggling contraband over prison walls. Although it’s not yet clear whether the government wants prisons to be included in the ‘no fly zones’ manufacturers bake into devices.
“These new laws strike a balance, to allow the vast majority of drone users to continue flying safely and responsibly, while also paving the way for drone technology to revolutionise businesses and public services,” added Sugg.
Also commenting in a statement, Tim Johnson, policy director at the Civil Aviation Authority, said: “Drones can bring economic and workplace safety benefits but to achieve those we need everyone flying a drone now to do so safely. We welcome plans to increase drone operator training, safety awareness and the creation of no-fly zones.”
At the same time as announcing incoming drone regulations draft, the government revealed it’s funding a drone innovation project which launches today — inviting UK cities to get involved in R&D focused on using the tech to transform critical services, such as emergency health services and organ transport, essential infrastructure assessment and repair, and parcel delivery and logistics.
Up to five cities will be able to gain government support for carrying out some drone R&D as part of what it’s dubbed The Flying High Challenge.
The project is being run by Nesta in partnership with the Innovate UK government agency.


We’d heard months ago that Amazon would be using its Re:Invent AWS event to roll out some a new service related to building in mixed reality — augmented reality and virtual reality. And on the eve of the conference kicking off, it’s done just that. Today the company announced Amazon Sumerian, a new platform for developers to build and host VR, AR and 3D apps quickly and with minimal coding, for smartphones and tablets, head-based displays, digital signage and web browsers. As with many other AWS services, Sumerian is “free” to use: you pay only for the storage for what you create.
The service — announced at AWS’s “Midnight Madness” pre-show event — is available in preview from today. Initially, the service is browser-based and works in any browser that supports WebGL or WebVR graphics rendering, such as Daydream, HTC Vive, Oculus Rift, and iOS mobile devices.
Amazon says different features in Sumerian in preview include the ability to design in AR, VR and 3D immersive environments using libraries of pre-built objects; the ability to create animated characters (using its Lex speech recognition and Polly for natural language understanding); and then shipping the apps to various hardware.
It’s also integrating with third-party developers for certain features — these include Mapbox for location services.
AWS naming the service Sumerian — the language spoken by Sumer people of Mesopotamia — is an interesting choice and fits with Amazon’s concept behind the service.
Sumerian (the original language) was one of the world’s first written tongues and is considered to be the basis of many languages that followed. Amazon’s thinking behind Sumerian (the AWS product) is that it is trying to bring AR, VR and 3D into the mainstream by building set of tools to make it much easier to use.
“Customers across industries see the potential of VR and AR technologies for a wide range of uses, from educating and training employees to creating new customer experiences,” said Marco Argenti, Vice President, Technology, AWS, in a statement. “But, customers are daunted and overwhelmed by the up-front investment in specialized skills and tools required to even get started building a VR or AR application. With Amazon Sumerian, it is now possible for any developer to create a realistic, interactive VR or AR application in a few hours.”
It does this by way of providing many pre-configured building blocks to make creating apps quickly and with less coding to cover the basics like inanimate objects and the basics of a human form.



Sumerian-05-ImportAsset-1




Sumerian-07-MannequinAsset




Sumerian-05-ImportAsset-2








Amazon’s been making a number of acquisitions to help build out its position in AR and VR and the new wave of computing. They have included the body-scanning startup Body Labs and GameSparks, a platform for building games. I’d argue that you can see some of that tech and general approach coming to the fore here as well.
In fact, it’s often not obvious how Amazon will redeploy talent and technology in its products down the line. One of the people leading the company’s mixed reality efforts in AWS is Kyle Roche, who actually came to Amazon when it acquired his IoT startup 2lemetry. Roche also had a background in augmented reality. He’s now the GM of Sumerian.
In keeping with the idea of trying to kick-start more AR and VR development, Amazon is also creating a series of pointers to steer people to different kinds of apps — critical, given that one of the big criticisms of mixed reality services is that the applications for the technology have yet to prove themselves as “must-have”.
Amazon is focusing here on very practical end-points: “training simulations, virtual concierge services, enhanced online shopping experiences, virtual house or land tours” are among those it names could be improved with the use of virtual environments populated with animation and 3D and more natural interactions with users.
The service also brings together a lot of what AWS has been doing in other areas by trying to simplify otherwise-complex new computing applications. Last week, the company announced a new consultancy to help people build more AI-based services, and last month, it announced Gluon, a simplified machine-learning model builder.
The bigger picture here is that the new wave of computing and technology has a lot of coding and other time-consuming processes behind it, and Amazon wants to be the one to modernise and simplify that — thereby becoming the default platform for creating applications on that new tech.
(This is not unlike Apple’s push in its early days to demystify computers by making them super easy to use for the average consumer, at a time when the pre-existing basic home computer still required you to wear a tinfoil hat to use.)


TechCrunch December Include Office Hours will be hosted in Berlin, Germany on December 1st. We’re partnering with Cavalry Ventures. From 2-3pm, founding and managing partner Rouven Dresselhaus and managing partner Stefan Walter will be giving key feedback and valuable guidance for underserved and underrepresented founders. Apply now!
In 2014, TechCrunch launched the Include program to leverage TechCrunch’s unique network and resources to create access and opportunity for underserved and underrepresented founders.
TechCrunch Include Office Hours are a part of this effort. TechCrunch partners with a VC in New York or San Francisco to host these meetings. During Disrupt, we host Office Hours in the city of the event — this month, it’s Berlin! These private 20-minute sessions are valuable opportunities for entrepreneurs to gain insights and advice from seasoned investors, as those from Cavalry Ventures. Founders can apply here.
Underserved and underrepresented founders include (but are not limited to): female founders, refugees, veterans, minority, LGBTQ, Black, Latino/a, Asian, people with disabilities and Native peoples.
Let’s meet Cavalry Ventures and the partners
Based in Berlin, Cavalry Ventures invests in early-stage, disruptive companies. Cavalry is founded and led by a team with deep founder and investment experience themselves. Cavalry is a “hands-on, operations driven and laser-focused on enabling early stage entrepreneurs who have the ambition to transform important markets to build the next big thing.”
Rouven Dresselhaus

Rouven Dresselhaus is founding and managing partner of Cavalry Ventures and contributes his expertise in strategic decision making, e.g. investment strategies, portfolio management as well as fundraising support to back the growth of portfolio companies. At Cavalry, Rouven is responsible for the portfolio companies McMakler and FreightHub.
Prior to Cavalry, Rouven invested privately in more than 35 startups worldwide that have created over $1.5 billion in shareholder value. Among them are Tradeshift (world’s largest network for businesses) and Simplesurance (leading online provider for product insurances).
Rouven started his career at KPMG as a consultant in the Financial Risk Management practice. He then supported Morten Sondergaard in his investment activities and joined the early/mid-stage VC fund Capnamic Ventures.
Aside from being experienced in the digital economy, Rouven possesses strong ties to the old economy, as he grew up closely connected to his family’s business, Dresselhaus GmbH & Co KG, one of the largest providers of screws and fastening parts in Europe. Other than taking the Founders Pledge, he is an avid supporter of and donor for YUNUS Social Business to generate sustainable social impact.
Stefan Walter

Stefan Walter is managing partner at Cavalry Ventures and supports founders in areas such as funding/fundraising strategy, financial modeling and investor communications.
Stefan holds degrees in finance/tax law and business administration. Prior to Cavalry he co-founded Montredo amongst others, an e-commerce venture with focus on new luxury watches, before moving to the other side of the table and joining Rheingau Founders, a Berlin-based company builder and early-stage investor.
Stefan is passionate about all sorts of ball games (basketball, tennis and soccer in particular), and is actively involved in the Berlin startup scene, where he serves as mentor at Techstars and METRO Accelerator.


At Disrupt Berlin, we have a special treat for attendees who want to engage with our main stage speakers and other experts on the big topics in the tech and startup world. We call these Off the Record sessions (OTRs). Although technically not ‘off the record,’ they are a great opportunity to ask our speakers questions, as well as listen to the experts and a moderator talk in more depth about the topics they discussed with TechCrunch editors on the main stage.
The format is a 45-minute roundtable discussion including questions from the audience. Any regular Disrupt attendee may participate. The sessions take place on-site at the venue in an area we have set aside for OTRs. The discussion is followed by a networking reception. The OTRs won’t be recorded, and TechCrunch doesn’t normally cover them, so the only way to be a part of what is sure to be a series of great discussions is to register for Disrupt Berlin.
Right, so which categories are those? We’re almost done programming the OTRs, and here is the line-up so far. Please note that most of these OTRs correspond to highlighted sections of our Startup Alley.
Robotics – Monday Dec. 4 at 1:15 – 2:30 p.m.
Rob Coneybeer, Shasta Ventures
Alex Zosel, Volocopter
James Harrison, Sky-Futures
Cryptocurrencies – Monday Dec. 4 at 4:00 – 5:15 p.m.
Kavita Gupta, ConsenSys Ventures
Mona El Isa, Melonport
Tim Zagar, Iconomi
Moshe Hogeg, Sirin Labs (Sponsor)
Blockchain – Tuesday Dec. 5 at 10:00 – 11:15 a.m.
Gavin Wood, Parity Technologies / Web3 Foundation
Jutta Steiner, Parity Technologies
Artificial Intelligence – Tuesday Dec. 5 at 1:00 – 2:15 p.m.
William Tunstall-Pedoe, Ada Health
Suranga Chandratillake. Balderton Capital
Fintech – Tuesday Dec. 5 at 11:30 a.m. – 12:45 p.m.
Valentin Stalf, N26
Christian Nagel, Earlybird Venture Capital
Health and Bio Tech – Tuesday Dec. 5 at 2:30 – 3:45 p.m.
Ida Tin, Clue
Claire Novorol, Ada Health
Xavier Duportet, Eligo Bioscience


Whether you celebrate a specific holiday or just love to celebrate giving gifts, you’re gonna love our Cyber Monday special. Today only, when you buy a general admission ticket to Disrupt Berlin, you can head on over to our curated TechCrunch Gift Guide and pick up something nice for someone you love. Or for yourself — we don’t judge.
And we’re not talking some $10 office holiday party gimcrack, either (not that there’s anything wrong with that). No, we’re talking anything you want up to $200 USD (not including tax or shipping).
Who knows, you might find some cool gear or gadget that you can take with you to Disrupt Berlin on December 4-5. Oh, that’s right… the gift may be a cool bonus, but the real present is treating yourself to the hottest tech conference in Europe. Aren’t you the clever shopper?
This Cyber Monday deal is good for today December 27 only (until midnight, local Berlin time) and is not applicable to Startup Alley Exhibitor Packages, student or government tickets, so get a move on. Buy your ticket and claim your $200 bonus gift right now.
*You will be contacted after December 5 to proceed with fulfillment of your Gift Guide prize.

Featured Image: pley.com


Simon Lee, founder and CEO of Flitto
Artificial intelligence-powered translation is becoming an increasingly crowded category, with Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook all working on their own services. But tech still isn’t a match for professional human translations and machine-generated results are often hit-and-miss. One online translation service, Flitto, is now focused on providing other companies with the language data they need to train their machine translation programs.
Headquartered in Seoul, Flitto launched in 2012 as a translation crowdsourcing platform. It still provides translation services, ranging from a mobile app to professional translators, for about 7.5 million users. About 80% of its revenue, however, now comes from the sale of language data, called “corpus,” to customers such as Baidu, Microsoft, Tencent, NTT DoCoMo and the South Korean government’s Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute.
When Flitto launched five years ago, its main competition was Google Translate, says founder and chief executive officer Simon Lee. Google Translate delivered mixed results, but professional translation services were inaccessible for most people. Flitto, whose backers include Japanese game developer Colopl, was created to combine the two. It works with 1.2 million human translators who are paid if their translation is picked by the requestor.
Then in 2016, Google introduced its neural machine translation system, which improved the accuracy of Google Translate. Now many big tech companies, including Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook and Apple, are focused on developing their own artificial intelligence translation tools.
Even though results are getting better, they are still imperfect. AI-based translation systems need a ton of data to train, which is where Flitto comes in.
“There are different ways to translate something that gives different meanings in different situations, so there needs to be a huge set of data and a human checking all of that data to see if it is right or wrong,” says Lee.
He adds “it’s difficult to build up a corpus and IT companies don’t like building corpus because they focus on technology.”
Flitto’s app provides a machine translation first, then crowdsourced translations if requested.
Flitto’s corpus includes sets of human-translated sentences from its crowdsourcing service, which is used for things like slang, pop culture references or dialects that might stymie a machine translation service. Over the last five years, Lee says Flitto has accumulated more than 100 million sets of translated language data.
Corpus providers include the Oxford University Press, which gives researchers access to the Oxford English Corpus, and companies like Microsoft and Google that built corpus to train their systems. But there is still constant demand for new corpus because they take a lot of resources to create. While programs like Deepmind’s AlphaGo were able to train themselves with almost no human help, machine translation still needs a human touch.
“In other fields, machines can create their own data, but in language and translation it’s impossible for machines to create translation data by themselves,” says Lee. “So there always have to be human translators who go through all that data.”


Matt Heiman
Contributor


Matt Heiman is an investor at Greylock Partners.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Why ‘TAM’ doesn’t matter to me
Innovation under the hood will rev the engines of a fintech revolution



Nearly three years ago, Saar Gur and I wrote about how early-stage consumer product companies were overlooked by venture capitalists, but had the potential to create breakout success. At the time, VCs largely shrugged off the category by pointing to the lack of sizable outcomes in the consumer vertical and the difficulty of predicting which brands would be successful.
Since that post, Unilever bought Dollar Shave Club for $1 billion, Walmart bought Bonobos for $310 million, Kellogg bought RXBar for $600 million, and Purple Mattress effectively went public for $1 billion. None of these companies had yet celebrated their tenth anniversaries. Others including Warby Parker, Daniel Wellington, Glossier, and Allbirds remain independent but are reportedly doing $100’s of millions in sales after just a few years in the market.
These startups are taking advantage of not only the changing habits of millennial consumers, but also the ability to reach those consumers and build brand awareness through under-exploited digital marketing channels. As Amazon replaces brick-and-mortar store shelves and social influencers replace television stars, newer brands are not only taking advantage of these channels, but also are architecting their products and business models around them.
Unsurprisingly, success in the sector has spawned companies attacking nearly every imaginable product vertical. However, not all products are well-suited for disruption from tech startups. Andy Dunn wrote a terrific post outlining The Rise of Digitally Native Vertical Brands, but how does one know which “DNVBs” have the highest chance of success?

Friction Of Incumbent Channel And Unique Digital Enablement
A defining feature of DNVBs is that they are sold online. Selling online makes the most sense when there is a built-in friction associated with purchasing through the existing offline channel.
For instance, Dollar Shave Club took advantage of the fact that razors and razor blades are available in convenience stores, but are often behind a protective plastic or behind the counter, requiring the involvement of a store associate. Warby Parker thrived on the fact that eyewear shops often have to turn away or delay patients without a prescription. Nurx and Roman are building off of the friction of getting prescriptions for medications that people are sometimes uncomfortable talking about.
Irrationality of price can be another form of purchase friction. For instance, when buying a mattress from offline stores, it can be almost impossible to price compare, because manufacturers fragment their product line such that each store has slightly different SKUs. Startups like Casper and Purple Mattress were able to draw on that inefficiency.
Prescription acne medication is another example of a product that is priced exorbitantly relative to the costs of production, largely because of the way medications are prescribed, purchased, and paid for today. Curology was able to offer those same active ingredients in their own product online for a fraction of the cost.
A somewhat obvious part of digital enablement is the ability for the product to ship well. To sell something online, its physical dimensions and economics need to work with shipping. One of the important, but overlooked, reasons for Casper’s success, is that their mattresses are made of foam and compress into a relatively standard and compact box. At the same time, there is no work required of the customer, since the mattress takes form upon exposure to air. If instead Casper had to ship fully formed mattresses, the shipping logistics would be more complicated and require a higher sales price.
Another way to think about digital enablement is when something about selling direct-to-consumer over the internet allows for a type of product design or economics not feasible in the traditional channel.
For instance, Grove Collaborative sells household cleaning products in concentrate form (i.e., without water) to dramatically reduce shipping weight and cost. Incumbent competitors like Windex are designed around optimizing shelf-space in physical retail stores, so can not feasibly make the same product innovation.

Frequency Of Purchase Or High Average Order Value
Just as with software, successful consumer businesses generally have high customer lifetime values (LTV). There are two ways to achieve high LTV: a single but large and profitable purchase, or repeated smaller, less profitable purchases.
Consumer products that have recurring or highly repetitive purchase behavior are particularly interesting. These businesses can afford to spend more on acquiring a new customer because once that customer is acquired, the company will continue to earn revenue for a long period of time. Many of the very successful consumer brand startups over the last decade have had this feature. Subscription or high repeat businesses like Ritual, Dia & Co., Lola, and Hubble are just a few recent examples.
Yet there are a host of brand startups selling highly infrequent purchases. Furniture and jewelry are good examples here. These startups instead focus on having high average order value, and associated profit, such that they can recoup marketing investment in the first sale. While possible, going for the one-time high order value is generally a more challenging way to build a big business, as the lack of subsequent interaction with the customer does not afford opportunities to introduce other products.
Hubble contact lenses cost $30 per monthly supply.
 
High Margins On The Product And For The Retailer 
Another important feature to consider is the product margins in the category. What constitutes “high” varies considerably based on the category. But generally speaking, products that have 70%+ gross margins are particularly attractive because they exhibit many of the same characteristics as software businesses, especially when they also have high purchase frequency as discussed above. In fact, the income statement of a company selling these types of products could easily be mistaken for those of a software business. Most consumer products have gross margins of 30–50%, but there are a few categories where 70% margins have been sustainable, such as skin care, cosmetics, and vitamins.
Because DNVBs usually sell direct-to-consumer, it’s also important to consider the category retail gross margins. Some categories, such as grocery, have notoriously thin retail margins, whereas others, such as luggage, apparel, and eye care have much higher margins.
A common myth is that new brands can succeed by going direct-to-consumer because they cut out the retail margin. Nothing could be further from the truth. Brands are simply taking on the burden of distribution themselves, rather than offloading it to a larger retailer, which if anything can usually manage distribution more efficiently because of economies of scale.
As a result, consumer brand startups will have to take on retail costs, such as managing an e-commerce platform, customer service, and most importantly customer acquisition. These startups shouldn’t count on gross margins being higher than incumbents for a long time, so need to enter a category where those margins are sufficiently high from the beginning to support marketing costs.

Propensity To Share Via Social Media OR Garner Earned Media
The best brands are those which make their customers proud to be associated with them, which happens when a brand can become associated with a customer’s identity. Brands whose customers effectively market on their behalf — either by word of mouth or more recently via social media — have a built-in advantage in the form of dramatically lower customer acquisition costs.
Daniel Wellington now has 3.5 million Instagram followers, which is a good example of a brand that used social media sharing instead of traditional advertising to build a $250 million revenue business in a few short years. Glossier, which stated that 70% of their online sales comes via peer referrals, is another example.
Even if customers themselves don’t post selfies using a product, earned media can fill the gap. Earned media is when reporters and bloggers write about the product. It can be a cost effective marketing channel for the right products. Companies with compelling missions and founding stories are often able to capture outsized earned media. Toms, the footwear and apparel brand that donated a pair of shoes to a child in need for every one purchased, is a company that continually receives earned media given the important social mission. Having celebrities involved in the company is another way to generate outsized earned media.
One way to evaluate whether it’s possible to achieve this type of marketing advantage is to consider the historical importance of brand in a category. For instance, brand has mattered in products like shoes and apparel for a long time, but is less important in verticals like mattresses and furniture. But it can also be dangerous to assume that the future will be just like the past. Some of the best consumer startups have been those that were able to create an important brand in a category where there was formerly none.
Glossier, the makeup brand from Into the Gloss, has the perfect natural look set.
Timelessness Of The Product
Certain categories, such as apparel, are subject to rapidly changing fashion cycles. Starting or investing in these types of businesses is particularly difficult because one has to underwrite the success of the current generation of products while continually anticipating consumer’s future preferences. And brands that stand for something may very well find it difficult to evolve effectively if preferences shift against their brand ethos.
Volatility and difficulty of predicting changing preferences is a common reason why investors do not back in early-stage consumer products. But there are many categories in which consumer preferences are stable and change only over the course of decades rather than by the season. For example, products like household goods, personal care, and over-the-counter medications stay consistent.
Conclusion
The above is not a fully comprehensive look at what drives success in consumer product startups. There are certainly examples that violate many — if not all — of these rules, yet have found tremendous success regardless. Allbirds is a recent example that does not fit neatly into many of the criteria above, yet seems to be finding great success.
Historically, in each generation there have always been a handful of new consumer brands that emerge that later become household names. What’s unique about our current environment is that new brands now have the potential to directly reach their target customers without the restraints of the wholesale channel, and therefore can scale quickly.
Of course, many new consumer brand startups will not succeed. That’s just the nature of the game. But the odds are now better and for those that can break through, and the prize is now sufficiently large that founders and investors should pay attention.


It’s official—Meredith Corporation will buy Time Inc. in an all-cash transaction valued at $2.8 billion. Meredith said today it agreed to pay $18.50 per share for all outstanding shares of Time Inc. As reported earlier this month by the New York Times, the deal, which is slated to close in the first quarter of next year, includes equity financing from the billionaire Koch brothers, who are known for supporting conservative policy. Meredith said they will have no influence in the combined company.
Meredith has been trying to buy Time Inc. since at least 2013, when its first offer was rejected because the two companies could not agree on what magazine titles would be included in the deal. Meredith approached Time again earlier this year, but those discussions also stalled when Meredith reportedly failed to secure enough bank financing for the acquisition.
Then earlier this month, the New York Times reported that talks were back on after Charles G. and David H. Koch, who own manufacturing conglomerate Koch Industries but are probably better known for their conservative advocacy, agreed to back Meredith’s offer with more than $500 million in equity.
As it turns out, the Koch brothers are contributing more than that. Meredith said that Koch Equity Development, the investment arm of Koch Industries, will contribute $650 million in equity to help finance the deal.
Media watchdogs have expressed concern over the potential influence of the Koch brothers on Time Inc. The siblings fund a non-profit advocacy group called Americans for Prosperity to back conservative candidates and positions and though the Koch brothers were critical of President Donald Trump’s campaign tactics, they have recently become closer with the administration to support its tax reform efforts.
Meredith said in its press release that the Koch brothers will have no influence on how the company is run or its editorial content: “[Koch Equity Development] will not have a seat on the Meredith Board and will have no influence on Meredith’s editorial or managerial operations. KED’s non-controlling, preferred equity investment underscores a strong belief in Meredith’s strength as a business operator, its strategies, and its ability to unlock significant value from the Time Inc. acquisition.”
Meredith’s brands include Better Homes & Gardens, Allrecipes, Parents and Shape. It also runs 17 local news stations in 12 markets. Time Inc. is best known for publishing its eponymous news weekly, but its other titles include Fortune, Entertainment Weekly, People, Sports Illustrated and InStyle.
Meredith said the first two years after the acquisition are expected to generate cost synergies of $400 million to $500 million, which is probably not reassuring to Time Inc. employees considering its multiple layoff rounds this year.
Once the two companies are merged, Meredith says they will serve nearly 200 million consumers, with its digital media business reaching 170 million monthly unique visitors in the U.S. Meredith and Time Inc. made combined revenues of $4.8 billion in 2016, including $2.7 billion in total advertising revenue (with $700 million of that from digital advertising) and adjusted EBITDA of $800 million.

Featured Image: Gary Hershorn / Contributor/Getty Images


I’ve been thinking about token sale marketing lately mostly because it’s been so bad. I’ve gotten hundreds of emails asking me to be an ICO advisor or evangelist or influencer primarily because the ICO marketing techniques come to us straight out of the spammiest corners of affiliate marketing. I’ve gotten emails from founders who have been promised “posts on TechCrunch” by content marketers with no relationship with the site and I’ve seen founders bribe writers on Forbes and Medium and other user-generated sites to simply add a link. The bottom line?
You’re doing it wrong.
Why will your token sale fail? It’s not because you didn’t get Posh Spice or Richard Branson to tweet about you. It’s not because you didn’t pay Floyd Mayweather to stand in front of a pile of cash and suggest, in the most winking way, that you, too, can be as rich as him. It’s because you did do these things but forgot the core of startup growth: you need fans. And those fans have to be so dedicated, so in love with your idea, that they stay up all night clicking away, chatting, and talking about you product.
You need red-eye fans, fans so dedicated to your crazy cause that they become crazy themselves.
The tech hype cycle is quite simple. For a tool to get mass adoption you first need a core group of users who can’t live without your product. Foursquare created this group a SXSW in Austin and Uber created it in San Francisco. These users fit those products into their daily lives and those companies grew and grew. Word spread when those core users opened their phones and checked in or called a car or made a reservation in a few seconds. People around them were fascinated.
“What is that?” they’d ask.
“Let me show you,” said the early-adopter. And thus a behemoth is born.
What happens if you don’t have a product? Then you have to build the hype based on other things. You have to talk about your development experience, how hard you’re working, and how cool you and your team are. Think about the best Kickstarter campaigns you’ve seen. They’re run by personable, excited people, they are staffed with not only programmers but social media managers who get the word out about every wrinkle, and the feedback boards are pep rallies rather than information booths. This works – check out Kickstarter and Indiegogo for confirmation – but it’s very hard.
Now we’re entering a weird world of token sales, a world in which the story is quite confusing. How does it work? A company aims to “raise” $40 million on a team and a dream? That sounds amazing and impossible! It’s actually far less interesting than it sounds and no one will admit that token sales are essentially currency-generating events with little bearing on reality.
A company creates millions of smart contracts for a few pennies each. The company keeps a few million contract tokens for itself and its founders, sells millions of tokens to initial “investors” (really crypto whales with lots of cash), and then, if all goes according to plan, releases tokens to the general public. The company actually “raises” a few million at best and then has to spend the rest of its life propping up that token to keep investors and purchasers happy. It’s a juggling act that most founders don’t expect.
So how do you market this effort? This process and the fact that you are doing it is not news. No one cares except, of course, your red-eyed fans. In short, then you run an ICO you walk a tightrope in a storm with only a few people to at your disposal for help. Once you get to the other side you find only more tightropes.
Your job, then, is simple. You make a good product and tell the world. You spend on product market, show your product to people and hope they become fans, and do regular old outreach via blogs, Facebook, Twitter, and everything else. A token sale isn’t a shortcut. You grow the old-fashioned way: you earn every percentage.
Your users, users who have tried a version of your product and found it amazing, are key here. You need red-eyed users, users who refuse to stop talking about what your product will do not how much money they will “make” in your ICO. You need users who are in love with your team and who are excited about what you will produce.
Making a product is hard. Making a great product is nearly impossible. But if you drop everything to run an ICO you will not make a great product. And it’s great products that get all the attention, all the press, and all the support.
So don’t waste your time or money on influencers, advisors, scammy book makers, and rich people who are getting high on the fumes of a new financial scam. When you pay someone to spread the news about your potential scam sale you’ve lost. When you hire influencers you’ve lost. When you create a list of advisors who may or may not be aware they are on your deck then you’ve lost. The only time you win is when you lead with product.
Token sales have added a massive distraction to the startup founder’s life. A founder’s goal, at the end of the day, is to produce. If they fail, then all the tokens in the world won’t save them. The game hasn’t changed from the old VC days. It’s just gotten far more important to produce a scaffold – financial, personal, and future-forward – to support your dreams. And those red-eyed fans, the fans that will stay up all night to get your next release, are the only relationships you need to cultivate.


More VC money sloshing around Europe: In what was probably one of the worst kept secrets in European VC, London-based Balderton Capital is announcing a new $375 million fund. I understand that it actually closed earlier this year, however, and I’m told has already been used to make ten investments.
In fact, although the firm now has a decent amount of new capital to deploy, this is really business as usual for Balderton. The new fund — the firm’s sixth — will target startups anywhere in Europe at mostly Series A stage, with the occasional seed deal or Series B investment, in addition to follow ons.
In terms of LPs, the VC isn’t disclosing any individual names, including whether or not any European Investment Fund (EIF) or taxpayer-funded British Business Bank money made it into the fund. It simply says that the latest fund has been raised from new and existing investors from Europe, the U.S. and Asia. The inclusion of a small number of Asia-based LPs differs from its previous fund, while the Europe and U.S. portion is split 60/40. (Update: The EIF has confirmed to Business Insider it is a backer of Balderton’s new fund).
Presumably part of its pitch deck to LPs, Balderton says the continent’s technology sector has reached a pivotal moment, in which a “critical mass of fast-growing companies, ambitious entrepreneurs, top tier technical talent, and access to multi-stage investment means that Europe’s next global giant is set to be a technology company”. This it believes could see Europe finally produce a tech company to rival Silicon Valley.
“Europe’s technology sector has already produced many game-changing global companies, but we are still waiting for our continent’s very own Google, Amazon or Facebook to emerge,” says Bernard Liautaud, Balderton Capital’s Managing Partner, in a statement. “As European startups grow bigger faster, we are convinced that is finally about to change. With growth accelerating – this year to date European companies have attracted more than $12.5bn of venture investments – the continent can now produce and scale tech businesses of global significance”.
Meanwhile, Balderton’s previous fund saw it invest in what it claims are a range of category leaders, such as fintechs Nutmeg, Revolut, and Prodigy Finance. Others investments from the same fund include Aircall, Carwow, and Frontier Car Group.
In a call with Balderton Partner Suranga Chandratillake, he said the VC will continue to do a few investments in fintech, while AI — something that the U.K. and Europe excel at — will be a strong focus going forward. “We are very bullish on AI,” he tells me. “Both for extremely complex, unique problems that will require real fundamental AI progression to really make progress… and applied AI”. One example of the latter is Balderton portfolio company Comply Advantage that uses AI to automate compliance for banks and other financial services companies.
Another area that Balderton continues to eye up — and one where Chandratillake is personally excited about – is games, which, again plays to Europe’s strengths. “If you look at the history of games, Europe has historically outperformed the rest of the world and I think it will still do that,” he says.
“The amount of time people spend on games, the number of platforms on which games can be played, the openness of those platforms; all of these trends are extremely positive. Long, long term, things like AI and the fact that more and more of us will have more and more spare time, things like games — in the broadest possible sense — become quite important for humanity”.


Andrew Keen
Contributor



Andrew Keen is the author of three books: Cult of the Amateur, Digital Vertigo and The Internet Is Not The Answer. He produces Futurecast, and is the host of Keen On. 

			More posts by this contributor:			
How one of America’s most powerful policemen learned to love social media after Hurricane Harvey
How human capital is tech’s most valuable resource



There are few greater threats to democracy in the world today than the proliferation of fake news and propaganda.
So it was no surprise that this year’s National Democratic Institute’s (NDI) prestigious Democracy Award focused on websites and research organizations that are countering the distribution of fake news.
The three winners of the 2017 Democracy Award, announced by NDI Chairwoman and former Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, at a ceremony in DC, were the Ukrainian fact-finding website Stopfake.org; the Oxford Internet Institute’s Project on Computational Propaganda and the Philippines-based social news network, Rappler.
All of these award winners are at the “forefront of the battle to combat disinformation…. They work each day to protect the integrity of our information, to protect truth itself,” according to the NDI.
So how do we protect “truth itself” online? What’s the best way to combat fake news?
According to Maria Ressa, the former CNN bureau chief in the Philippines and founder and editor-in-chief of Rappler, the real responsibility for cleaning up fake news lies with social networks like Twitter and Facebook. 97% of those online in the Philippines get their news via Facebook, Ressa reminds us. So social media networks need to “take responsibility” in revealing the ways propaganda spreads online — like the bloggers consciously spreading lies in the Philippines, she says.
But Philip Howard, the professor of internet studies at the Oxford Internet Institute, disagrees with Ressa. “The time for industry self-regulation has passed,” Howard says. It passed after the Brexit vote and the election of Trump. Now some sort of “gentle” policy oversight is necessary, Howard insists, to stop the online spread of what he calls “junk” news.
Fake news is an incredibly hard problem to address. But what should be applauded is the heroism of journalists like Rappler’s Ressa, who are at working to counter online disinformation.
“We talk truth to power,” Ressa says. Telling that truth is a particularly brave thing to do in the Philippines, where the regime of President Rodrigo Duterte has been accused of involvement in hundreds of extra-judicial killings. And what Rappler — a curated website which checks the veracity of news — highlights is that there can never be an effective technological fix for fake news.
Only accountable journalists at news sites like Rappler or Stopfake.org can effectively combat disinformation, says Ressa. There is no app that can protect truth itself.
Many thanks to the folks at the Greater Providence Chamber of Commerce for their help in the production of this interview.

Featured Image: Thomas Faull/Getty Images


	





Earlier today, November 26 2017, I was turned away from immigration at Shanghai’s Hongqiao airport by Chinese officials.
Alongside a number of other visitors, I had been waiting in line to take advantage of the city’s 144-hour ‘transit’ visa, which allows travelers with an onward flight to stay in Shanghai without needing to secure a visa before they travel.
The transit visa is issued on arrival if a visitor is not returning to the destination from which they arrived. For example, someone arriving from Hong Kong qualifies for the visa so long as their onward destination is outside of China but not Hong Kong. I flew in from Hong Kong and my exit ticket to Bangkok was booked for early afternoon on November 29, putting me comfortably inside the 144-hour limit.
As someone who has lived in Asia for nearly a decade, I’ve become accustomed to visas and the fact that, even when there’s another option, getting one before you travel is the best approach. In the case of China, however, I’ve long given up on the prospects of doing so.
Even though TechCrunch’s reporting aims to highlight promising startups and the role of tech in this modern and connected world, my status as a journalist in Thailand — where I live and hold an annual visa as a registered member of the media — has made getting a legitimate pre-travel visa for China impossible. The fact that I am from the UK — which doesn’t have 10-year visa options like the U.S. — means that one route taken by some reporters, who are able to get decade-long business visas, is not open to me.
Last summer, for example, I visited the Chinese embassy in Bangkok to start the process for a visa for our next TechCrunch China event in Beijing that November. Ultimately, I was told I was welcome to apply but that I would require a range of paperwork in addition to the usual documents, including approval from the municipal government of Shanghai and the mayor of Shanghai.
In order to make progress, I had a member of the embassy staff explain the requirements in Mandarin over the phone to an employee at TechCrunch’s partner company in China. I was later told by our partner that what was required was unclear and likely impossible to deliver on.
China, you see, will never reject your visa. Instead, an insurmountable wall is erected to prevent you from ever applying in the first place.
That’s where the appeal of the transit visa comes in. You simply book your flights to ensure you won’t overstay, then turn up.
Since 2015, I have used the transit visa system on six occasions. Even then, I’ve been nervous. Each time, I watched other travelers processed quickly after showing their documents, while I was kept waiting — one time for more than an hour as my bag ended up in lost property — as immigration officials looked over a computer screen (presumably showing my details) and summoned their seniors. Eventually, after waiting on the sidelines and watching travelers flow through with success, I’d be told I had been let in.

Travelers pass through immigration in Shanghai while I wait
Not this time
This time however, starting at around 5:30 pm, the wait was noticeably longer than usual. A senior official returned after around 45 minutes, telling me I was to board a plane to return to Hong Kong.
I was permitted to stay for 24 hours under the shorter transit visa option, but my request to stay for three days — and not utilize the full 144-hour visa — would not be allowed.
The reason, as it was explained to me, was that in 2015 I had broken Chinese law when I failed to present myself to authorities in Beijing when I had visited and stayed at an Airbnb residence on two different trips. Unbeknownst to me at the time — and something that was not communicated by Airbnb — foreigners are required to register at a local police station, but in most cases the hotels where they stay handle this..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Therefore anyone using Airbnb, or staying with friends, must voluntarily visit the city’s police station and register. As anyone who has ever spent time in China and doesn’t speak the language will know, that’s challenging. But it is the law.
Even still, I was surprised. I used the very same transit visa on my last trip to Shanghai in June, and again in November of last year when I visited Beijing. This year, I was granted a visa on arrival (which is not a transit visa) to visit Shenzhen in June without trouble.
The immigration officers explained to me that a new law that had come into effect in recent months meant I was unable to exercise the longer transit visa. My previous visits were not subject to that, I was told. The officials denied my request for details about this new law.
The two incidents that they cited — from the first half 2015 — did indeed happen. However, it wasn’t until I was leaving Beijing Airport on the second trip that I was made aware of my crime. Two burly immigration officials pulled me to the side of the immigration queue and took my passport. They then berated me in Mandarin and summoned an English-speaking officer.
After some delay and an explanation of the police registration requirement, I was instructed to give information about my host. I provided her telephone number and name as requested. The officers made me sign a piece of paper that was written in Mandarin and, after I expressed concern that I would miss my flight, I was allowed to leave and get an exit stamp in my passport.
I made my flight, just, but the incident made an impact. Aware that Airbnb operated in a legal grey area in China at the time and concerned I might have put my host in hot water, I decided to stop using the service in China and contact her to ensure all was okay.
My host, who is Chinese, told me that she did indeed receive a call from the police who asked to know the nature of our relationship, including how long had she known me. She told them I had booked the room online.

I spoke to her after I left Shanghai yesterday and she recalled that her experience with me was “super weird.” As an Airbnb host for four years who has welcomed more than 100 guests, she said she had never had any problem like it with anyone else. She repeated her belief that I didn’t actually need a visa for short stay.
Back to Hong Kong
Back to the situation in Shanghai this weekend, faced with the prospect of being denied entry, I tried my best to calmly explain that I was only made aware of my rule-breaking the second time. Since then, I explained, I had made a point of only staying in hotels as I didn’t want to break rules. Plus, most importantly, I had since returned to China, been permitted entry, and complied with the requirement each time.
My plea fell on deaf ears, however. Perhaps angry at my efforts to argue my cause, I was informed that the senior officer had decided to remove my option for a 24-hour visa. I was told to travel immediately, I would not be admitted — period. I need to leave now, they said. The plane I had taken in from Hong Kong had been turned around and was ready to leave; this was the flight I was to be on.
The reason I was in Shanghai was our latest TechCrunch China event which runs for two days. This meant I would miss all of it.
Compounding my misery, Hong Kong Airlines, which I used to fly into Shanghai, then informed me I’d need to buy a ticket to leave, although I later ‘struck a deal’ to go back for free.
Exit agreed, I was then accompanied by a very tall security officer, who took my passport and escorted me and the airline representatives to collect my luggage and arrange my seat on the next flight at the Hong Kong Airlines desk.
I asked if I could take a photo with my chaperone to mark the occasion, but was told no.

Crunchbase






				Tencent Holdings			


 
Founded
1998


Overview
Tencent is a Chinese internet service portal offering value-added internet, mobile, telecom, and online advertising services.

Since its establishment in 1998, Tencent has maintained steady growth under its user-oriented operating strategies. It provides value-added internet, mobile and telecom services, as well as online advertising under the strategic goal of providing users with "one-stop online …


Location

Shenzhen, Guangdong



Categories

Social Media Marketing, 																													Internet, 																													Online Games, 																													Advertising, 																													Mobile 


Founders
Zhidong Zhang


Website

https://www.tencent.com/en-us/ 


Full profile for Tencent Holdings 










“Have a happy journey” — ground staff, airline staff and the immigration officer arrange my ticket back to Hong Kong
Ticket secured, I was escorted back through checkin and onto the plane — it was truly whirlwind — all while my passport was in the possession of my large minder. At the plane, it was briefly returned to me, but I was told that I had been given a seat on the condition that my passport was turned over to the Hong Kong Airlines crew, who would return it to me when we landed.
Options exhausted, I reluctantly agreed and, after holding the flight up significantly through my situation, I walked through a plane of disgruntled passengers glaring at me — the cause of their 90-minute delay — to take my seat in the corner at the rear of the plane.
One airline attendant had apparently heard what had happened to me and offered an apology.
“This is the Mainland, sir.”
Why the trouble?
I’ve heard stories of senior people at major global media companies being given transit visas on the condition that they remain inside the airport, and other such restrictions on political reporters, but I didn’t ever think I — a technology blogger — would join the club.
It’s hard to speculate on Chinese policy with any certainty. One thing I do know is that Chinese immigration have been aware that I am a “journalist” since I was given a tourist visa in 2015.
At the time, the official who granted me the visa told me that, even though I had applied for a three-month, multiple-entry visa, he would only give me a one-week visa. These are ‘special’ since they are not even among the options for travelers. His main concern was that I might write stories while on Chinese soil and, since he didn’t entirely understand what TechCrunch did, he wanted to err on the side of caution.
My experience this week shows that the level of caution has been raised significantly. I neither write investigative stories about the Chinese government, nor do I cover politics. But I am someone who is viewed as a member of the media. While in the past, there was some tolerance to us passing through, China has decided to get tighter still.
The fact that the 19th Congress has just taken place, thus making politics more intense right now, may be a factor.
Some might suggest that stories I’ve written on censorship in China may be a reason, but I’ve been covering thorny topics for some time, and it hasn’t ever prevented my entry into China.
It’s hugely disappointing for me because I always enjoy my (short) trips to China. It’s a great chance to see a different kind of innovation to the U.S., one that isn’t as well-understood or even reported on as the U.S.. Then there’s the opportunity to talk to young startups, huge $500 billion giants like Tencent, and those with designs on influencing Asia and other parts of the world. I’ve lost count of the number of events, company launches, and other story opportunities that I’ve had to pass on due to visa concerns.
Our objective is to shine light on these topics for our readers, but unfortunately the Chinese government is making that hard to do.

Featured Image: Timothy Allen/Getty Images



0
SHARES






























		
	




		


Update: Apologies. I’d written today a breezy story titled: “Snap’s Evan Spiegel is clinging to billionaire status by his fingernails.” I cited reporting that this remaining 86,657,812 shares are reportedly worth $1.07 billion at this point. What I failed to note — and a source close to the company has brought to my attention —  is that those roughly 86 million shares are class A shares only. Spiegel also owns roughly 143.7 million class C shares and another 7.5 million class B shares to safely secure his status as someone worth well over $1 billion, despite the slide in Snap’s share price since its March IPO. Very sorry for the screw-up. The original story follows below.
It’s hard to fault someone for being barely a billionaire — a self-made one at that, who happens to be just 27 years old. Still, owing to the performance of Snap Inc.’s performance since its March IPO, such is the position of its cofounder and CEO, Evan Spiegel.
Spiegel was worth more than three times that amount just nine months ago, when the company made its splashy debut. Hailed initially as a triumph, Snap’s shares opened their first trading day at $24, soaring 41 percent out of the gate. Their price quickly began drifting south, however, as Instagram began more aggressively replicating the features that made Snapchat so popular.
Today, its shares trade at just less than $13 each, giving the company a market cap of $15.6 billion, down from a peak valuation of $31 billion.
What does it really matter? Not much if Snap’s plans to reinvigorate its business can gain solid footing.
As you may have read in TC earlier this month, the company is reversing its stance on several key things. One of them will be to embrace social media influencers, rather than shun them, as was previously the case. Snap had also focused primarily on first-world countries where high-bandwidth video is readily accessible, largely abandoned developing countries. But after missing revenue expectations by $30 million in the third quarter, Spiegel acknowledged on the company’s earnings call that “[Snap needs] to accelerate the adoption of our product among Android users . . . and users in the rest-of-the-world markets.”
Not last the company says it’s prepared to work harder to attract users above the age of 34, a segment to which it was not catering earlier.
Snap is also doing more to squeeze revenue out of its users, only  4.5 million who were new to the company in the last quarter. (That amounts to less than three percent user growth quarter over quarter.)
As our colleague Josh Constine reported a couple of days ago, for example, Snapchat is looking to win over more businesses with immersive new ads formats. One, called Promoted Stories, strings together multiple Snaps into a longer-form slideshows that can be opened from a tile on the Stories page. A separate initiative, called Augmented Reality Trial ads, allows people to play with an AR version of a product overlaid on the scene surrounding them.
Only time will tell if these initiatives make the kind of impact that Spiegel hopes they will.
In the meantime, he may have to make do with less. Though he and cofounder Bobby Murphy reportedly sold shares worth $272 million apiece at the time of Snap’s IPO and he has continued to make regularly scheduled stock sales (he sold 1.65 million shares on November 9th at an average price of $12.42, for a total transaction of roughly $20.5 million), his remaining 86,657,812 shares are reportedly worth — eek — $1.07 billion at this point.
On the day of Snap’s IPO, they were worth nearly $3.6 billion.


	



For decades technology companies have enjoyed a near-unbroken run of great publicity. Products and services are lauded as shiny and covetable. Adoption is couched as inevitable. Direction goes unquestioned. Engineering genius is assumed. And a generous margin is indefinitely applied to gloss over day-to-day errors (‘oh, just a few bugs!’) — allowing problematic functioning to be normalized and sanctioned in all but a handful of outlier instances.
The worst label these companies have generally had to worry about is being called ‘boring’. Or, at a push, overly addictive.
Tech giants have been given space to trumpet their products as revolutionary! Break through! Cutting-edge agents of mass behavioral change! To, on the one hand, tell us their tools are actively restructuring our societies. Yet also fade into the background of the conversation the moment any negative impact gets raised.
Then they prefer to stay silent.
When forced, they might put out a blog post — claiming their tools are impartial, their platforms neutral, their role mere ‘blameless intermediary’.
The not so subtle subtext is: The responsibility for any problems caused by our products is all yours, dear users.
Or at least that was the playbook, until very recently.
What’s changed is that lately the weight of problems being demonstrably attached to heavily used tech services has acquired such a gravitational and political pull that it’s becoming harder and harder for these businesses to sidestep the concept of wider societal and civic responsibilities.
Whether it’s Facebook and election disinformation. Google’s questionable choices in information ranking and ad monetization. Amazon’s appetite for crushing traditional retail and evading tax. Airbnb diluting local neighborhoods and pushing up rents. Uber being outted as a rule-breaker and a bully — again and again. Or Twitter providing a safe place for nazis to spread violent hate speech and misogynists to harass women.
Libertarians are unlikely to object to any of this, of course, but it really is long overdue that the rose-tinted glasses came off the liberal view of tech companies.
The warning signs have been there for some years now. Few apparently cottoned on.
The honeymoon is over
Silicon Valley’s creativity may have been seeded in the 1960s by hippy counterculture but the technological powerhouse its community constructed has graduated from hanging around in communes to churning out some of the most fervent capitalists in human history.
Growth is its icon, now. Power the preferred trip. And free love became voyeuristic data capture.
You may champion capitalism and believe, of all available systems, it alone delivers the best and widest societal benefits — albeit trickle down economics is a desiccating theory still in dire need of a flood… (And that’s before you even start to factor in advancing automation destroying lower skilled jobs).
But the messages tech giants have used to sell their services have hardly amounted to an honest summary of their product propositions. That would require their marketing to confess to something more like this: ‘Hi! We’re here to asset strip your personal data and/or public infrastructure to maximize our revenues and profits any way we can — but at least you’re getting to use our convenient service!’
Instead they’ve stood behind grand statements about making the world more open and connected. Organizing information and making it universally accessible. Living like a local. Having a global mission. And so on and on.
They’ve continued to channel hippyish, feel good vibes. Silicon Valley still stuck on claims of utopianism.
This of course is the slippery lie called marketing. But tech’s disingenuous messages have generally been allowed to pass with far less critical scrutiny than gets applied to companies in all sorts of other industries and sectors.
And as a consequence of, what? On some level it seems to be the result of an uncritical awe of gadgetry and ‘techno-newness’ — coupled with a fetishization of the future that’s greased by ‘association attachment’ to sci-fi themes that are in turn psychologically plugged into childhood nostalgia (and/or fueled by big Hollywood marketing budgets).
On the other hand it may well also be a measure of the quantity of VC funding that has been pumped into digital businesses — and made available for polishing marketing messages and accelerating uptake of products through cost subsidization.
Uber rides, for example, are unsustainably cheap because Uber has raised and is burning through billions of VC dollars.
You don’t see — say — big pharma being put on the kind of pedestal that tech giants have enjoyed. And there the products are often literally saving lives.
Meanwhile technologists of the modern era have enjoyed an extended honeymoon in publicity and public perception terms.
Perhaps, though, that’s finally coming to an end.
And if it is, that will be a good thing. Because you can’t have mature, informed debate about the pros and cons of software powered societal change if critical commentary gets shouted down by a bunch of rabid fanboys the moment anyone raises a concern.
Money for monopolizing attention
The long legacy of near zero critical debate around the de-formative societal pressures of tech platforms — whose core priority remains continued growth and market(s) dominance, delivered at a speed and scale that outstrips even the huge upheavals of the industrial revolution — has helped entrench a small group of tech companies as some of the most powerful and wealthiest businesses the world has ever known.
Indeed, the race is on between tech’s big hitters to see who can become the first trillion dollar company. Apple almost managed it earlier this month, after the launch of its latest iPhone. But Alphabet, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft are all considered contenders in this insane valuation game.
At the same time, these companies have been disrupting all sorts of other structures and enterprises — as a consequence of their dominance and power.
Like the free Internet. Now people who spend time online spend the majority of their time in a series of corporate walled gardens that are ceaselessly sucking up their input signals to order to continuously micro-target content and advertising.
Social media behemoth Facebook also owns Instagram, also owns WhatsApp. It doesn’t own your phone’s OS but Facebook probably pwns your phone’s battery usage because of how much time you’re spending inside its apps.
The commercially owned social web is a far cry from the vision of academically minded knowledge exchange envisaged by the World Wide Web’s inventor. (Tim Berners-Lee’s view now is that the system is failing. “People are being distorted by very finely trained AIs that figure out how to distract them,” he told The Guardian earlier this month.)
It’s also a seismic shift in media terms. Mass media used to mean everyone in the society watching the same television programs. Or reading news in the same handful of national or local newspapers.
Those days are long gone. And media consumption is increasingly shifting online because a few tech platforms have got so expert at dominating the attention economy.
More importantly, media content is increasingly being encountered via algorithmically driven tech platforms — whose AIs apparently can’t distinguish between deliberately skewed disinformation and genuine reportage. Because it’s just not in their business interests to do so.
Engagement is their overriding intent. And the tool they use to keep eyeballs hooked is micro-targeted content at the individual level. So, given our human tendency to be triggered by provocative and sensationalist content, it’s provocative and sensationalist content the algorithms prefer to serve. Even if it’s fake. Even if it’s out-and-out malicious. Even if it’s hateful.
An alternative less sensationalist interpretation or a boring truth just doesn’t get as much airplay. And easily gets buried under all the other more clickable stuff.
These algorithms don’t have an editorial or a civic agenda. Their mission is to optimize revenue. They are unburdened by considerations of morality — because they’re not human.
Meanwhile their human masters have spent years shrugging off editorial and civic responsibilities which they see as a risk to their business models — by claiming the platform is just a pipe. No matter if the pipe is pumping sewage and people are consuming it..

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Traditional media has its own problems with skewed agendas and bias, of course. But the growing role and power of tech platforms as media distributors suggests the communal consensus represented by the notion of ‘mass media’ is dissolving precisely because algorithmic priorities are so singleminded in their pursuit of engaged eyeballs.
Tech giants have perfected automated, big data fueled content customization and personalization engines that are able to pander to each individual and their peculiar tastes — regardless of the type of content that means they end up pushing.
None of us know what stuff another person eyeing one of these tech platforms is seeing in any given moment. We’re all in the dark as to what’s going on beyond our own feeds.
Many less techie people won’t even realize that what they see isn’t the same as what everyone else sees. Or isn’t just the sum of all the content their friends are sharing, in the case of Facebook’s platform.
The recipes underpinning these individual information hierarchies are only abstractly alluded to. They are certainly not publicly shared. The full gamut of targeting factors are never disclosed. The algorithms are not open sourced. Calls to open up their black boxes have been studiously ignored.
What self-regulation there is tends to be piecemeal. After the outraged fact — of YouTube being shown monetizing extremism, for example, or (a more recent accusation) pandering to pedophiles.
But now some politicians are talking openly about regulating the Internet — apparently emboldened by growing public disquiet. That’s how bad it’s got.
After the love is gone
If we allow social consensus to be edited out by a tiny number of massively dominate content distribution platforms which are algorithmically bent on accelerating a kind of totalitarian individualism, the existential question that raises is how can we hope to maintain social cohesion?
The risk seems to be that social media’s game of micro-targeted fragmentation ends up ripping us apart along our myriad fault lines — by playing to our prejudices and filtering out differences of opinion. Russian agents are just taking what’s there and running with it — via the medium of Facebook ads or Twitter bots.
Were they able to swing a vote or two? Even worse: Were they so successful at amplifying prejudice they’ve been able to drive an uptick in hate crime?
Even if you set aside directly hostile foreign agents using tech tools with the malicious intent of sewing political division and undermining democratic processes, the commercial lure of online disinformation is a potent distorting force in its own right.
This pull spun up a cottage industry of viral content generating teens in Macedonia — thousands of miles away from the US presidential election — financially encouraging them to pen provocative yet fake political news stories designed to catch the attention of Facebook’s algorithm, go viral and rack up revenue thanks to Google’s undiscriminating ad network.
The incentives on these platforms are the same: It’s about capturing attention — at any cost.
Another example where algorithmic incentives can be seen warping content is the truly awful stuff that’s made for (and uploaded at scale to) YouTube — with the sole and cynical intention of ad display monetization via children’s non-discerning eyeballs. No matter the harm it might cause. The incentives of the medium form content into whatever is necessary to generate the click.
In the past decade we even coined a new word for this phenomenon: ‘Clickbait’. Bait meaning something that looks tasty when glimpsed, yet once you grab it you’re suddenly the thing that’s being consumed.
Where algorithmic platforms have been allowed to dominate media distribution what’s happened is the grand shared narratives that traditionally bring people together in societies have come under concealed yet sustained attack.
Both as a consequence of algorithmic micro-targeting priorities; and, in many cases, by intentional trolling (be that hostile foreign agents, hateful groups or just destructive lolzseekers) — those agents and groups who have got so good at understanding and gamifying tech platforms’ algorithms they’ve been able to “weaponize information” as the UK Prime Minister put it earlier this month — when she publicly accused Russia of using the Internet to try to disrupt Western democracies.
And tech platforms gaining so much power over media distribution seems to have resulted in a splintering of public debate into smaller and angrier factions, with groups swelling in polarized opposition over the dividing lines of multiple divisive issues.
Some of the heated debate has been fake, clearly (seeded on the platforms by Kremlin trolls). But the point is fake opinions can help form real ones. And again it’s the tech pipes channeling and fueling these divisive views which work to fracture social consensus and undo compromise.

Really the result looks to be the opposite of those feel-good social media marketing claims about ‘bringing people closer together’.
Cashing out
A few massively powerful tech platforms controlling so much public debate is not just terrible news for social cohesion and media pluralism, given their algorithms have no interest in sifting fake from real news (au contraire). Nor even in airing alternative minority perspectives (unless they’ve divisively clickable).
It’s also bad news if you’re an entrepreneur hoping to build something disruptive of your own.
Unseating a Google or a Facebook is hardly conceived of as a possibility in the startup space these days. Instead many startups are being founded and funded to build a specific feature or technology in the explicit hope of selling it to Google or Facebook or Amazon or Apple as a quick feature bolt-on for their platforms. Or else to flash them with relevant talent and encourage an acquihire.
These startups are effectively already working as unpaid outsourcers within tech giants’ product dev departments, bootstrapping or raising a little early funding for their IP and feature idea in the hopes of cashing out with a swift exit and a quick win.
But the real winners are still the tech giants. Their platforms are the rule and the rulers now.
Sure, in the social space Snapchat stood its ground against big acquisition offers. And managed to claw its way to an IPO. Yet Facebook has responded by systematically cloning its rival’s ideas — copy-pasting key features across its own social platforms to amplify its own growth — and successfully boxing Snap’s momentum.
If Facebook had not been allowed to acquire additional social networks it might be a different story. Instead it’s been able to pay to maintain and extend its category dominance.
Just last month it acquired a social startup, tbh, which had got a little bit popular with teens. And because it already owns or can buy any potentially popular rival network, network effects work to seal its category dominance in place. The exception is China — which has its own massively dominant homegrown social giants as a consequence of actively walling out Western tech giants.
In the West, the only shade darkening the platform giants’ victory parade is the specter of regulators and regulation. Google, for example, was fined a record-breaking $2.73BN this September by the EU for antitrust violations around how it displays price comparison information in search results. The Commission judged it had both demoted rival search comparison services in organic search results, and prominently placed its own.
In Europe, where Google has a circa 90 per cent share of the Internet search market, it has been named a dominant company in that category — putting it under special obligation not to abuse its power to try to harm existing competitors or block new entrants.
This obligation applies both in a market where a company is judged to be dominant and in any other markets it may be seeking to enter — which perhaps raises wider competition questions over, for example, Alphabet/Google’s new push, via its DeepMind division, into the digital health sector.
You could even argue that the overturning of net neutrality in the US could have the potential to challenge tech platform power. Except that’s far more likely to end up penalizing smaller players who don’t have the resources to pay for their services to be prioritized by ISPs — while tech giants have deep pockets and can just cough up to continue their ability to dominate the online conversation.
Even the European Commission’s record-breaking antitrust fine against Google Shopping shrinks beside a company whose dominance of online advertising has brought it staggering wealth: Its parent entity, Alphabet, posted annual revenues of more than $90BN in 2016.
That said, the Commission has other antitrust irons in the fire where Google is concerned — including a formal investigation looking at how other Google services are bundled with its dominant Android mobile OS. And it has suggested more fines are on the way.
The EC has also gone after Amazon over e-book pricing and publisher contracts — forcing a change to its practices to settle that antitrust probe.
European regulators’ willingness to question and even attempt to check tech platform power may be inspiring others to take action — earlier this month, for example, the state of Missouri launched an investigation into whether Google has broken its consumer protection and antitrust laws.
Meanwhile Silicon Valley darling, Uber, got a big shock this September when the local transport regulator in its most important European market — London — said it would not be renewing its license to operate in the city, citing concerns about its corporate behavior and its attitude to passenger safety. (A decision that’s since been validated by the news which broke this month that Uber had concealed a massive data breach affecting 57M of its users and drivers for a full year.)
Next year incoming European data protection regulation will bring in a requirement for companies to disclose data breaches within 72 hours — or face large fines of up to 4% of their annual global turnover (or €20M, whichever is greater).

Crunchbase



				Google			


 
Founded
1998


Overview
Google is a multinational corporation that is specialized in internet-related services and products. The company’s product portfolio includes Google Search, which provides users with access to information online; Knowledge Graph that allows users to search for things, people, or places as well as builds systems recognizing speech and understanding natural language; Google Now, which provides information …


Location

Mountain View, California



Categories

Search Engine, 																													Blogging Platforms, 																													Ad Network, 																													Collaboration, 																													Email, 																													Video Streaming, 																													Enterprise Software, 																													Information Technology 


Website

http://www.google.com/ 


Full profile for Google 









These much stiffer penalties for data mishandling are intended, by European lawmakers, to rework how digital businesses view information generated by and around their users.
The change they’re seeking is for digital data to no longer be seen as a limitless resource to be siphoned off, stored and ceaselessly data-mined; but as a potential liability to be collected sparingly, applied carefully and deleted the moment it’s no longer needed — because the financial risk of holding on to it has suddenly, drastically inflated.
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) can really be seen as a reaction to the kinds of behaviors that have enabled and entrenched a few tech giants at the top of the pile.
Another example: Google’s AI division, DeepMind, has had its fingers burnt in the UK this summer after a data-sharing partnership it inked with a London National Health Service Trust was judged to have violated data protection law.
The rules around sharing medical data are already subject to multiple layers of regulation, ethics and information governance. Nonetheless DeepMind was handed access to the non-anonymized medical records of 1.6M patients without their knowledge or consent, and under loosely defined contract terms that failed to firmly lock down what the company might be able to do with highly sensitive medical data.
Was the NHS Trust suffering from an overly shiny perception of technologists’ intentions when it agreed to hand millions of people’s medical records to an ad-targeting giant in exchange for a little free app development assistance and a few years’ unpaid access to the resulting service? You really do have to wonder.
It had been DeepMind’s intention to apply AI to the same data-set. Before it presumably grasped the extent of legal minefield it was careening into — and apparently backed away from feeding the medical records to its AI models (it has claimed the AI research it had intended to conduct on this data-set “has not taken place”).
In the wake of this controversy, the data-sharing contracts DeepMind has been able to ink with other NHS Trusts (most recently Yeovil) have been considerably tighter than the terms applied to its initial data grab. And none of these data-sharing arrangements enable DeepMind to use its data access to develop AI. (A research partnership with Moorfields Eye Hospital is the sole exception.)
The long and short of all that is that — at least in Europe — regulators are responding to tech giants’ moves into sensitive spaces rather faster than they might have done in years past. (Even if still a little after the fact.) And as the sheen comes off tech’s marketing, it’s arguably getting easier for politicians to challenge and stand up to big tech’s unchecked claims.
More and more politicians are also wondering aloud how society can place checks and balances on tech platform power. And as the next sets of rules get forged, they are being written with eyes  opened to the disruptive power of software.
Think different
It may be that we’ve reached the end of the road for tech businesses being able to get such an easy and uncritical ride — and that means tech businesses of all stripes, large or small, established or just starting up.
If so, it’ll be because a few tech giants got so good at selling their one-sided stories they were able to crush competition and entrench themselves as the default. For search. For social. For shopping. For media. For capturing and monopolizing attention.
And because no one thought to question what would happen if — for example — a dominant communication platform allows anyone with a few dollars to spend to micro-target any kind of advertising they choose. Anyone — or any government or hostile actor with a divisive agenda to push.
Facebook has defended its failure to anticipate misuse of its tools by saying ‘we just didn’t think of that’. Which suggests the company’s management was either drunk on its own Kool Aid. Or deliberately chose not to be responsible for anything outside the narrow scope of business growth.
But if they’re not taking responsibility for negative civic and societal impacts, regulators are going to have to make them act with more care.
No one also apparently thought to question what would happen to the quality of information being surfaced and made mainstream if a dominant tech platform’s information sorting algorithms were chained directly to its revenue generating mechanism.
Pulling up the most clickable stuff might be great for business growth but it’s really not so edifying for the eyeballs and minds encountering the base stuff your tech ends up pushing.
A lot of people have spent a lot of time warning about what’s lost when you allow hateful speech to dominate and drown out constructive opinions.
But Twitter ignored them anyway. Because its platform apparently gets more engagement by giving trolls a soapbox. And now abusive behavior accounts for the vast majority of government complaints the company receives.
While people in popular tourist destinations have increasingly been asking what happens to local communities and neighborhoods if you throw open the door to short term rental opportunism without considering the impact on long-term residents and rents.
You still won’t read anything about those downsides in Airbnb’s marketing, though.
And what about the people who fought for better background checks for the self-employed contractors that were being placed in positions of trust on ride-hailing platforms just because it lowered the barrier to faster business expansion if they didn’t have to run fingerprint checks.
Do those people feel vindicated now that Uber is facing regulatory backlash in London over safety and corporate responsibility issues as well as a class action lawsuit in the US alleging it endangered thousands of female passengers?
Or do they just feel really, really angry?
Whose fault is it that software has been given such a free ride to eat the world no matter the wider human and societal costs?
It’s especially egregious when you consider that just a tiny bit of critical thought could have helped steer off so many of these bad outcomes.
A little more critical thinking, for example, and it would have been obvious that requiring tech platforms to disclose who’s paying for digital political ads is a good idea. TV and print ads already do it. Why on earth should digital ads be any different?
Had that rule been in place last year, Russian agents would at least have had to be a bit more creative about their election disruption. As it was they were able to pay in Rubles — and using their known ‘troll farm’ name.
It beggars belief how the power of tech platforms has passed under the political radar for so long. And likely speaks to how tech illiterate so many politicians still are.
But again, they’re waking up. And boy is it a rude awakening.
Critical analysis of technologies to consider their wider impacts — on politics, on relationships, on emotional and mental wellbeing, on local and global environments — is what’s been sorely lacking in the tech narrative for years.
So really it’s hardly surprising that civic and societal considerations have been systematically de-prioritized by tech algorithms and omitted from the one-sided conversations technologists love to have.
But maybe the backlash is finally coming.
And instead of mindless cheerleading accompanying every startup pitch we’ll get a lot more Bodega fury wake-up calls.
Certainly we will if tech entrepreneurs keep making ‘disruption’ a clarion call for destruction and exploitation.
So founders, ask yourselves this: What might break because of what I’m trying to make?
And then: What am I going to do about it?

Featured Image: Arielle Calderon/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE



	


		




Well, it’s over $9,000.
Even as you recoup from attempting to explain Bitcoin to your family over the Thanksgiving dinner table, the value of the cryptocurrency is growing at an increasingly hefty pace. As of the time of this writing, the value of a single Bitcoin was above $9,143, climbing nearly 6 points in the past 24 hours.
At a certain point, news of clearing these incremental price hurdles are going to get old, but given the increasing speed in which Bitcoin prices are knocking through these barriers and hitting all-time-highs, it seems relevant to chronicle the march towards $10,000 at least.
The cryptocurrency currently has a market cap north of $152 billion.
via coinmarketcap.com
My colleague Fitz Tepper said the case for Bitcoin at $10k was pretty strong by year’s end when it hit $8,000 just six days ago, but at this rate perhaps its more relevant to wonder how close to $15k the cryptocurrency will get in 2017 before the rate of investment at least cools.


You know everybody loves Tesla-the-company. But did you know that a whole lot of smart people hate Tesla-the-business? “From a return-on-investment-capital standpoint, Tesla is a catastrophe.” “The electric-car maker has been burning money at a clip of about $8,000 a minute (or $480,000 an hour.)” “Tesla is losing a massive amount of money with no competition, and yet massive competition is coming.”
Jim Chanos summarized all of the reasons why nicely: “If you wouldn’t be short a multi-billion-dollar loss-making enterprise in a cyclical business, with a leveraged balance sheet, questionable accounting, every executive leaving, run by a CEO with a questionable relationship with the truth, what would you be short? It sort of ticks all the boxes.” A lot of people think bankruptcy looms in Tesla’s future. Of course, Tesla bears have been saying this for years, and they’ve consistently been wrong — but this time, are they right?
Maybe; maybe not. Either way, a far more interesting question, if (like me) you have no financial interest in the business’s success or failure, is: does it matter?
I’m entirely serious. We tend to assume that a company’s purpose is to make money for its shareholders, or at least “not go bankrupt,” because money is how we measure success. And this is in fact true of most companies. But it is not true of Tesla. “When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure,” and this is as true of money as it is of any other measure. The purpose of Tesla is not to make money; it is to pioneer fleets of smart mass-market electric cars, and the infrastructure to support them, and battery technology which is not limited to cars. Making money is ancillary.
And whether or not they are making money, they are succeeding at their purpose. They are building the world’s largest factory — in fact, the world’s largest building; it’s still under construction, but parts of it are already up and running. They all but own the luxury electric car market, and are on course to dominate the mass market as well, while also manufacturing power packs.
I’m sure Elon Musk would like to do this while turning a sweet profit. Which is of course also, technically, his fiduciary duty. But if he fails to do so, is that really so tragic? For those of us who aren’t shareholders or bondholders, I mean. (Don’t you worry about Elon, he won’t be missing any meals.)
Maybe it wasn’t even possible to do so — in which case Musk will have used the capital markets to essentially subsidize Tesla with free money. (And, interestingly, open-source the resulting patents.) In which case, you know what, more power to him for managing to fund a loss-making investment in what is not so much a car company as it is infrastructure for our shared future.
After all, even if Tesla stock goes to zero, and its bonds default to pennies-on-the-dollar, its factories and software repositories and human capital will all be there, and no Chapter 11 court or committee will be blind to the fact that they’re worth far more as a coherent unit than they would be as separate assets. The analogy I like to draw is that of the Channel Tunnel, which was privately dug and built, and a complete financial debacle for its investors — “a wonderful thing from which we’ve all benefited, apart from the people who paid for it to be built who lost substantially all their money.”
That quote may yet apply to Tesla. Does it sound unfair to stockholders and bondholders? Not at all: this is capitalism in action, you pays your money and you takes your chances. But if you’re not a stockholder, and not a bondholder, maybe don’t worry so much about headlines screaming about Tesla’s financial unviability. This time, for once, the rest of us win either way.


Being the richest man in the world wasn’t enough.
After Amazon shares climbed on Black Friday, founder and CEO Jeff Bezos saw his net worth rise to $100.3 billion, according to Bloomberg estimates.
Amazon’s stock has soared this year and Bezos has benefited to the tune of $32.6 billion. Yes, that’s the amount he has earned in 2017 alone.
So what’s he going to do with all that money?
Bezos wants suggestions. Over the summer, he tweeted a “request for ideas.” He said he wants his “philanthropic activity to be helping people in the here and now- short term- at the intersection of urgent need and lasting impact.”


Request for ideas… pic.twitter.com/j6D68mhseL
— Jeff Bezos (@JeffBezos) June 15, 2017



It isn’t the first time someone reached the unfathomable 12-figure milestone. Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates hit the mark in 1999.
Gates has since started The Giving Pledge alongside investor Warren Buffett, a promise to give away at least half of his fortune to charitable endeavors. He has also launched the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which aims to reduce poverty globally.
Bezos eclipsed Gates to become the world’s richest person last month. Buffett is presently estimated to be the third-richest at $78.9 billion.
Amazon has seen its stock rise this year as it continues to convince investors that it will carve out an even bigger lead in e-commerce. The company has also seen success in some of its hardware devices like voice-assistant Alexa.
Amazon has additionally seen growth in its cloud services business, Amazon Web Services (AWS) and is making new bets in a range of other verticals. Among them is a bet on groceries, with its purchase of Whole Foods earlier this year.

Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images


Three years and seven phones later, it’s hard to argue with OnePlus’s methods. That’s not to say it hasn’t made its share of missteps along the way (it definitely has), but the company has produced quality phones at affordable prices basically since day one.
OnePlus’s whole “never settle” tagline is less about offering up handsets that live on the bleeding edge than it is giving smartphone buyers the bet bang for their buck. It’s an increasingly important service as flagships start to push right up against the $1,000 mark.
User feedback has always been an important piece of OnePlus’s business model. The company fostered initial interest through an activity message board and an invite-only system, and much of that connection appears to still be intact, seven phones in. The company didn’t rush to include any features on the 5T — many like Portrait Mode and the 18:9 aspect ratio have already been a staple in flagship smartphones for six months or a year.
The company makes no bones about waiting to add features, nor does its rush to drop them for the sake of future-proofing. Case in point, the headphone jack. After a Twitter poll from co-founder Carl Pei found that fans overwhelmingly wanted the headphone jack to stick around, the company’s phones have continued to support the port.
The result, in the case of the OnePlus 5T, is a phone that ticks just about all of the necessary boxes for most Android users. While it’s true that the handset won’t elicit the same sort of high-end phone envy as the latest handsets from companies like Samsung, the 5T is a utilitarian device in the best possible way. It doesn’t push any limits or break any ground, but it offers premium or near-premium specs in a nice package for an accessible starting price of $499 — roughly half of what that shiny new iPhone will cost you.
Utilitarian unibody

It’s clear at first sight that we’re not dealing with anything too fancy here. There’s none of the flash of Samsung Galaxy or iPhone X in the 5T’s design. It’s sturdy though, and still pretty fetching, with an aluminum unibody that still hasn’t gone out of style, as much as bigger handset makers rush each year to one-up it.
The unit we got is “midnight black,” a pretty apt name for a handset with no color accents to break up the darkness. Of course, OnePlus always offers up a zillion different cases to dress the thing up — and add a little protection. Though, keep in mind, unlike most other flagships, there’s no waterproofing on-board — so the company remains a bit behind on that sensible trend.
And while the display has stretched out toward the sides and top, it’s not quite the edge-to-edge offered on higher-end flagships. Though the company did use this generation to do away with the home button like much of the competition, moving the fingerprint reader to the back of the device, and introducing face unlock in the process. The company’s managed to cram a six-inch screen into a moderately sized footprint.
And it’s a lovely display at that. The company opted for a Samsung-designed OLED. It really pops, with bright colors and not any of the drab muddying you’ll find on Google’s somewhat ill-fated Pixel 2 screen. It’s yet another element that belies the product’s totally reasonable price tag.
Camera ready

Like much the rest of the phone, the camera system is less rethinking than refinement. The dual rear-facing cameras are intact — kind of, sort of. Which is to say, the main lens remains unchanged, but the second, optical zoom has been swapped out in favor of one that does better in low light. That means this is one spot where OnePlus will, in fact, make you settle. Getting in tighter on an image means using digital zoom, which, in turn, means a degraded image.
It’s a bummer, but life, as they say is full of compromise. If you’re really missing it this time out, consider buying an Olioclip or some other third-party exterior clip-on lens. Personally, I think the company made the right call here. The low-light performance has been noticeably improved, and I suspect that impacts more users on a day to day basis, cutting out a lot of the noise you get when not shooting a photo in perfect daylight conditions.
Also new is Portrait Mode — another one of those features you’ve been seeing on flagships for a while now. The OnePlus 5 had the feature earlier this year, but the results were pretty widely panned. The 5T’s version is more subtle and, as a result, better. It’s still not quite on par with the highest-end flagships, but does a solid job mimicking the bokeh effect and highlighting its subjects.
Interior design

The 5T’s got a Snapdragon 835, just like its predecessor — a chipset that makes it competitive with other flagships. The handset handle tasks like a champ. The standard 6GB of RAM should be plenty for most users, but another $60 will bump that up to 8GB, and will double the 64GB of storage to 128GB. It’s worth considering, as there’s no expandable storage here, and because, hey, it’s still a pretty good deal.
The battery’s the same 3,300 mAh you’ll find in its predecessor, coupled with the company’s own super-quick Dash Charging tech. You should be able to get a day’s worth of use easy on a single charge, and can go from zero to full in about an hour.
The best deal in smartphones

It’s true that the 5T is mostly a refinement over its predecessor — but that’s to be expected, given the fact that it’s only been about six months since the OnePlus 5 hit the market. And besides, that was a great phone that’s been made even better. Sure, the 5T isn’t for those who need a phone to impress the neighbors, but you’re certainly not going to find a better deal for the price.
And given all of the stumbles companies like Google and Samsung have had attempting to stay on the bleeding edge, there’s also something to be said for not being too eager to be the first one to embrace a technology — or drop a headphone jack.


In May, when the FCC released an early draft of its plan to undo 2015’s strong net neutrality rules, I pointed out that its case rests almost entirely on a deeply incorrect definition of how the internet works. There can be no mistake now that this misrepresentation is deliberate; the agency has reiterated it in even stronger terms in the final draft of the proposal.
I’m not going to go into great detail on it (my earlier post spells it out) but the basic problem is this: broadband has to be defined as either an information service or telecommunications service. The first is “the offering of a capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing, retrieving, utilizing, or making available information,” while the second is “the transmission, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the user’s choosing, without change in the form or content of the information as sent and received.”
 
Related Articles
Commission Impossible: How and why the FCC created net neutrality
The FCC's craven net neutrality vote announcement makes no mention of the 22 million comments filed
New York attorney general slams the FCC for ignoring net neutrality comments investigation


It’s important because the two things are regulated very differently — the FCC has much greater power over telecommunications services, under the “Title II” authority that internet service providers are so afraid of.
While it’s certainly true that ISPs do in some ways store and generate data on behalf of the user, usually as part of managing their networks, it’s equally certain that their primary purpose is to transmit data between the user and points of his or her choosing. Consequently, broadband should be classified as a telecommunications service.
But don’t take my word for it. The FCC made the argument for me in its 2015 order, citing many sources of its own in support of this fact. This excellent primer produced by the EFF and nearly 200 experts explains basically from first principles how the internet works and why it should be defined as telecommunications. There are big names on the list, but it seems clear that even the garden variety experts understand this much more clearly than the FCC does (or pretends to).
The FCC dismisses these scholars and founding technologists of the internet in a footnote, describing itself as “unpersuaded” that the internet works the way they insist it does. Meanwhile, the proposal repeatedly and unquestioningly cites the comments of ISPs claiming that something as simple as caching data magically exempts them from being telecommunication services:
Just trust them — after all, it’s not like they have a horse in this race.
The resulting definition of broadband as enabling users to generate, store, transform, and process their data is absurd. It is, as the Internet Engineers comment points out, like saying your phone is a pizzeria because you can use it to order a pizza. It is like saying that because you build a road, you are also building all the businesses along that road.
It is edge providers like Wikipedia, Dropbox, and even simple websites like TechCrunch that provide the services users request; it is ISPs that carry that data, with no change in form, between users and those edge providers. The FCC rejects this fundamental idea and substitutes a convenient fiction that upholds its current ambition to reclassify broadband. There is a semblance of plausibility to all this, but only because of precedents set in times when the internet looked very different.
This may be their downfall. Because the entire proposal is predicated on this spurious and outdated definition, to remove it causes the rest to crumble. Without reclassification there is no rollback of net neutrality. There is hope here: the FCC’s argument (which is to say, the broadband industry’s argument) already failed in court and may do so again. Here’s hoping.


Joanna Glasner
Contributor



Joanna Glasner is a reporter for Crunchbase.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Not a minimalist? Startups will gladly store, manage and deliver your items
The state of the unicorn



As VC brands go, Rothenberg Ventures has seen better days.
The firm built up a reputation as an up-and-coming early-stage investor a few years ago, based on bold bets on virtual reality, a flashy marketing strategy and its well-connected namesake and founder, Mike Rothenberg. Between 2012 and 2016, the San Francisco firm participated in funding rounds for more than 100 early-stage companies, commonly investing alongside top-tier VCs.
But Silicon Valley soured on Rothenberg Ventures last year, amid charges that its founder spent beyond his means, failed to pay staff and misappropriated investor funds for a side project. Lawsuits ensued, along with a name change (since changed back), an SEC investigation and a lot of unflattering profiles casting the now 33-year-old Rothenberg as a sort of modern-day Gatsby.
So it hasn’t been a good year for Mike Rothenberg. But what about the Rothenberg Ventures portfolio?
In an effort to see how firm- and investor-specific scandals might affect portfolio companies, Crunchbase News took a look at the performance of Rothenberg Ventures-backed startups. We looked at exits and up rounds, as well as closures and apparent down rounds.
Overall, the Rothenberg portfolio seems to be doing well. It’s seen multiple exits at what appear to be favorable returns, a lot of up rounds and not too many high-profile flops. It probably helps that most portfolio companies had a number of other investors. The vast majority that raised cash from Rothenberg Ventures did so as part of a larger investor syndicate, and those startups weren’t relying on the firm as a major provider of follow-on capital.
With that in mind, here’s what the portfolio looks like now.
Exits
At least 13 Rothenberg-backed companies have gone on to exit, according to Crunchbase data. Point-of-sale systems company Revel Systems sold a majority stake to private equity firm Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe.
All of the exits were through acquisitions, and most of those exits involved early-stage companies selling for undisclosed amounts. Typically, Rothenberg was a non-lead investor in a syndicate for these startups. Most had raised a few million dollars prior to exit, though a few had raised larger rounds.
A couple of acquisitions involved companies that had already stopped offering their services.
 
Generally speaking, if an early-stage company that is not known to be in distress gets acquired, backers make money. This seems to be the pattern for most of the Rothenberg portfolio company acquisitions to date. The list includes Sweet IQ Analytics, a provider of local search tools that sold to Gannett; Payable, a provider of software for paying contractors that sold to Stripe; and Propeller, a platform for updating apps that sold to Palantir. One of the few deals with a disclosed price was a celebrity-heavy investment, Hello Giggles, a women-focused online media startup that sold to Time for $30 million in 2015. (You can view the full list of acquisitions here.)
A couple of acquisitions involved companies that had already stopped offering their services. AltspaceVR, a social VR platform closed over the summer, was snapped up by Microsoft in October. And Luxe, a valet parking app, had also shut down before it sold to Volvo in September.
So far, the firm’s big bets on virtual reality have yet to produce lucrative exits, though some have raised follow-on rounds, which we’ll look at next.
Up rounds
Seed investments take a long time to mature, so it’s not surprising to see the majority of viable portfolio companies still in follow-on fundraising mode.
To date, the Rothenberg portfolio has a number of companies that have gone on to raise much larger follow-on rounds, presumably at marked-up valuations. We assembled 30 of them here.
The portfolio includes some unicorns. Mike Rothenberg said there are three companies in the portfolio that have surpassed the $1 billion valuation mark, but did not name them. It seems clear looking at the firm’s list of investments that one unicorn is RobinHood, the zero-commission platform for buying stocks, which raised its last round at a $1.3 billion valuation. The firm is a non-lead investor and one of at least 28 known backers.
 The biggest exits and biggest flops are probably yet to come.
 
It’s unclear whether SpaceX counts as one of the unicorns. Rothenberg invested in a 2012 Series D, but SpaceX already had a multi-billion dollar valuation at the time, (although its value has since multiplied). We couldn’t identify an additional potential unicorn, so probably we either missed it or it’s a company whose billion-plus private valuation hasn’t been publicly disclosed.
There were also a number of companies that raised early-stage funding from Rothenberg that have secured significantly larger follow-on rounds in the past couple of years. Some of the bigger ones are Patreon, an online platform for sponsoring artists; 8i, a VR software developer; Andela, a tool for finding African tech talent; and Rinse, a garment care service.
Flops
Most seed-stage startup efforts don’t end in success, so we’d expect that any firm operating this stage for a few years would have some flops.
Rothenberg is no exception. Crunchbase turned up a few portfolio investments that raised small sums a few years ago and have since closed, like Butter, an app for making new friends; Buttercoin, a Bitcoin startup; and Bloodhound, an app for managing leads at trade shows. There are certainly more, though putting together a full list is challenging, as many startups prefer to quietly fade away rather than officially announce their closure. Also, seed investors commonly don’t disclose all their micro-investments, particularly for stealth startups.
The firm’s most high-profile potentially troubled asset is River Studios, a virtual reality production house Rothenberg launched in 2015. The investment came under fire last year, with Wired and other publications reporting that River hadn’t been properly green-lit by investors, lost money and was behind on rent.
The current status of River Studios is unclear. Its blog hasn’t been updated since mid-2016, and there are no open positions listed on its site.
Takeaway
Overall, the takeaway seems to be that Rothenberg Ventures’ downturn hasn’t extended to its portfolio companies in a meaningful way.
The firm’s performance seems similar to those of other funds of a similar vintage and approach. That is, it’s largely what we would expect from a well-connected Silicon Valley angel or VC participating in large investor syndicates for hot seed and early-stage startups in hot sectors. Rothenberg was somewhat of an outlier in its heavy focus on virtual reality, a sector that continues to attract reasonable funding but has yet to produce fat exits. VR hasn’t produced any big outcomes for Rothenberg, either — yet.
Given the long-time horizons that seed-stage startups require to mature, however, it’s still early innings for the bulk of the portfolio. The biggest exits and biggest flops are probably yet to come.

Featured Image: iStockPhoto / honglouwawa


Smartphones are inarguably an addictive class of devices, and not just because they put an endless font of information at your fingertips. The very experience of holding the phone and touching it is itself associated with that pleasure — so much so that you might wish you were doing it even when you don’t want to actually use the phone. That’s when you need one of Klemens Schillinger’s “Substitute Phones.”
The devices, if you can really call them that, are inert pieces of heavy, high-quality plastic in which are embedded stone beads that let you run your fingers along them to simulate various gestures. The beads roll in place, giving a similar frictionless feel but (I presume) also a pleasant little finger massage.
Whether you’re a compulsive swiper, scroller, or zoomer, there’s a model just for you.
“The object, which some of us describe as a prosthesis, is reduced to nothing but the motions,” explains Schillinger’s description of the… object. “This calming limitation offers help for smartphone addicts to cope with withdrawal symptoms. The object as a therapeutic approach.”
Speaking to Dezeen, Schillinger added that he was inspired not only by the disturbing frequency with which he and others tend to consult their smart devices (and for no particular reason, usually), but also the writer Umberto Eco, who when attempting to stop smoking his pipe, substituted a simple stick.
“It was the same thing,” he said, “but without the nicotine, just the physical stimulation. I remembered this and thought to make phones that would provide the physical stimulation but not the connectivity.
The Substitute Phone is the second in a series Schillinger is working on relating to our relationships with our devices. The first is the Offline Lamp, which only turns on when you put a smartphone-size object inside its drawer. Both were created for Vienna’s Design Week earlier this year.


There’s another battle brewing in Washington, though it may not matter all that much to the many venture-backed online lending companies that sprang into existence in the wake of post-crisis regulations.
At the center of this particular drama: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was established under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to protect consumers from predatory lenders and has become a potent consumer watchdog in the ensuing years, with wide power to battle abuses.
Just last week, the CFPB filed a lawsuit against Think Finance — a so-called financial technology provider that’s accused in multiple federal lawsuits of being a predatory lender — for allegedly collecting payments on debts consumers did not owe. (Sequoia Capital had owned nearly 30 percent of Think at one point. Elevate Credit, which provides loans to people with low credit scores and went public in April, was part of Think until it was spun off in 2014.)
Republican lawmakers have long sought to reduce the CFPB’s oversight. Now dueling appointments put its immediate future in question. Last night, President Trump named his budget director, Mick Mulvaney, as acting director of the agency hours after its current leader, Obama-appointed Richard Cordray, announced he would leave the job.
Mulvaney once characterized the consumer protection bureau as a “sad, sick joke,” as notes the New York Times, and he was widely expected to try and unwind Cordray’s legacy.
To counter the administration’s plans, on his way out the door, Cordray named his chief of staff, Leandra English, as the agency’s deputy director.
Under the law, the appointment should make English the agency’s acting director, though the White House says that Mulvaney plans to show up at the CFSB Monday morning anyway. The White House further says Mulvaney will keep his current job as head of the Office of Management and Budget.
If the Trump administration follows through on its threats, Mulvaney will lead both agencies until a permanent head of CFPB is chosen and confirmed by the Senate. The offices of the OMB and the CFPB are across the street from each other in Washington.
Senator Elizabeth Warren, who first proposed the creation of the CFPB as a Harvard law professor in 2007, isn’t going to let that happen quietly. She has already written in favor of Cordray’s decision on Facebook, saying that “President Trump can’t override that. He can nominate the next CFPB Director — but until that nominee is confirmed by the Senate, Leandra English is the Acting Director under the Dodd-Frank Act.”
You can imagine plenty of others will have weighed in by the time this weekend comes to a close.
Still, this fight may not matter all that much to online lenders. At least, they’ll be far more impacted — helped, really — by a different, recent development relating to the CFPB. Specifically, landmark financial regulation that was designed to restricts banks and credit card companies from imposing mandatory arbitration on their customers as a means to resolve disputes was killed last month in a tie-breaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence.
The rule, which had been praised by consumer advocates as giving people more power to fight industry abuses — like the creation of those millions of unauthorized accounts at Wells Fargo — was unveiled in July after years of work by the CSFB. It would have allowed Americans to file class-action suits against banks instead of being forced in many cases into private arbitration.
As we’ve noted in past stories about arbitration — which is also widely used by technology companies to keep disgruntled employees from publicly airing allegations of wrongdoing — the determinations of an arbitrator are binding. Consumer advocates and employment attorneys say that most decisions favor the company, too.

Featured Image: Luke Sharrett/Bloomberg/Getty Images


	




Here’s a scary thought for decision makers inside large organizations grappling with digital transformation. You can actually be innovative and have mechanisms in place to react to disruptive forces, and still get steamrolled as layers of internal management turn your creative ideas into something unrecognizable.
Kodak is a company that’s always held up as the poster child for an organization that missed the digital boat in order to protect its existing businesses. Tricia Wang, a technology ethnographer, who studies organizational and user behavior, says her research reveals a different narrative. In her view, the big digital ideas weren’t simply rejected by short-sighted Kodak execs. Instead, she says, the real story is much more complicated involving big company decision making processes.
It’s clear by now that companies recognize that digital transformation or modernization or whatever you choose to call it is a very real concept that can help stave off disruption. Kodak was certainly an early victim of digital disruption, but Wang says the company was not simply passive or unaware.
Rather, she sees a company that couldn’t take that idea and fully understand the implications of digital transformation. Maybe it was too soon to see, but it was at least partly because the decision makers wanted to build a digital product in the image of what came before instead of what was coming next.
The Kodak digital myth
The story goes that Kodak’s R&D team invented the first digital camera way back in 1974, then moth-balled it before building the first modern digital SLR camera in 1989. Some folks might have recognized the potential of that second discovery, but upper management rejects it, seeing the new device as a direct threat to its core film and developing business. As a result they never really take the idea seriously and fail to see the digital future that is just around there corner.
Eastman Kodak headquarters in Rochester, NY Photo: Brady Dillsworth/Bloomberg via Getty Images
This example illustrates a classic case of disruption as defined by Clayton Christensen in his seminal book The Innovator’s Dilemma. But Wang sees a different cautionary tale here.
She believes the evidence suggests that, even though Kodak might not have understood the full extent of the digital future in front of it, neither did it completely cast it aside in a fit of blind self-interest..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Wang describes a scenario of decision making, which didn’t ignore disruption, but still resulted in the same unhappy outcome: bankruptcy and the shrinking of a once great industrial giant.
Finding the next (wrong) idea
It’s fair to say that Kodak never fully embraced the digital camera. Instead, it looked at ways it could somehow fit digital into its company world view. Wang points out that computer-based photo editing made its debut around the same time that Kodak invented that modern digital camera. “The first digital photo editing software was introduced in 1988, and the Macintosh computer on which it ran was hinting strongly towards a different kind of future for digital capture and editing,” she said.
“The patents that Kodak developed around digital photography — especially the 1989 [digital camera] patent — could have given Kodak a huge leg up in meeting the emerging consumer needs around digital photography.”

Yet Kodak seems to have missed all the signals coming from the marketplace. “The market was captured by other competitors without the technological advantage or the IP [that Kodak had] — for example, the Casio QV-10, which was introduced in 1995, actually saw where the future of point-and-shoot digital photography was going, and pioneered the onboard LCD display that can be seen as a direct precursor to the smartphone, which came along equipped with cameras as early as 2000,” she explained
They never saw the problem as converting their customers to a digital world, but rather as finding a way to increase their brick and mortar presence. That ended up taking the form of a kiosk that sort of answered a digital user need of printing out hard copies from the digital system. It wasn’t a terrible idea, but it completely missed the real digital mark.
Kodak digital picture printing kiosk. Photo: Bloomberg/Getty
“This really big idea [the digital camera], got shoehorned into a footnote of a footnote of a footnote as it traveled up the chain of command. Kodak discovered something new, but their decision making process didn’t account for it,” Wang explained. They had the right insight, but the way they invested in it had nothing to do with the original idea of a fully digital world.
To be fair, Wang points out that the kiosk wasn’t the only thing the company did with its digital patents, but it was a particularly telling one. “It illustrates very clearly how corporations can miss out on broad changes in consumer behavior and instead focus on incremental operational improvements to their existing businesses,” Wang said.
Talking to your customers
She says that we have become so indoctrinated to be data-driven that we have forgotten the human element. You have to understand how customers are using whatever you’ve created and their real human feelings about it. While there is an element of the Steve Jobs theory that customers won’t know what they want until we show them, that’s only part of it. No company can really know what customers need until you ask, even within the context of true innovation.
Tricia Wang Photo: Ted Talks
What’s more, even the holy grail of data can only take you so far. As we have seen, collecting that data and understanding the needs of the customer at the point of contact often involves a huge disconnect. If you doubt that, think about the time a United passenger was dragged off a plane last spring. United might have had a history of every interaction with that customer in their databases, but it didn’t do them a lick of good when it mattered at the point of contact with that flight crew.
For Wang that means, companies have to look beyond tools and technology. They need to get the technical people who understand the technology to learn how to talk to the non-technical folks in sales, marketing, customer service and other parts of the company that actually touch the customers. She says the problem is that we have these tools and dashboards, but that’s doesn’t tell you everything there is to know without customer contact.
If you want to avoid becoming Kodak (or United), it starts with letting the technologists talk to the managers, executives and other employees and building a common understanding and language internally among employees, then externally with customers.
Otherwise you could end up with a kiosk instead of an iPhone and nobody wants that.

Featured Image: Roy Scott/Getty Images



0
SHARES






























		
	




		




It’s one of the biggest shopping days of the year, but retail giant Macy’s can’t get its credit card processors to work.
Customers have been waiting in lines across the United States to buy discounted items, only to find out that the machines won’t take credit cards or gift cards. Some Bloomingdale’s stores, which are owned by Macy’s, may have also been impacted.
Update: The company says it has resolved the issue and has provided the following statement.
“We have fully resolved today’s system issues. We highly value our customers and sincerely apologize for any inconvenience today’s system slowdown may have caused during their shopping experience. The delays we experienced this afternoon were due to a capacity-related issue that caused some transactions to take longer to process. We do not anticipate any additional delays.”
Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, has become a shopping holiday, with retailers offering heavily discounted items. Macy’s even kicks off the occasion with its big annual Thanksgiving parade in New York, which is televised throughout the country.
The company also experienced an outage on its website during Black Friday 2016. Holiday sales play a significant role in the company’s quarterly earnings and Macy’s disappointed Wall Street last season.
Its stock is trading at less than half of what it was a year ago and about one-third of what it was three years ago. The company presently has a market cap of $6.4 billion.

Last year, Terry Lundgren, who was Macy’s CEO at the time, said in an interview with Fortune that the company started opening its stores earlier on Thanksgiving Day because of industry pressure. “If you’re not open and your competitors are, there’s going to be a number of customers who simply will go shop elsewhere,” he told Fortune. “You’ll never recover that sale.”
Lundgren is now executive chairman.  Jeff Gennette took on the role of CEO in March, after being promoted from president.
Gennette told CNBC earlier Friday that Black Friday was off to a stronger start than last year.He said that the company had fewer discounts this year, which would lead to better profit margins.
According to the National Retail Federation, 164 million Americans planned to shop during Thanksgiving weekend.

Featured Image: Alexander Scheuber/Getty Images




Pokémon Go creator Niantic has raised a new $200 million in funding, reports The Wall Street Journal. The Series B raise was led by Spark Capital, and includes participation from Founders Fund, Meritech, Javelin Venture Capital, You & Mr. Jones and NetEase, Inc. Spark partner Megan Quinn is also joining Niantic’s board as part of the new financing deal.
Niantic is known for its augmented reality games, which began with the multiplayer sci-fi spy game Ingress, created during the company’s time as an internal startup founded within Google. In 2015, Niantic spun out as its own entity, and it launched Pokémon Go in July, 2016. The Pokémon AR game managed to attract massive interest at launch, resulting in huge real-world gatherings of players thanks to its mechanic of incentivizing players to move around in the real world to achieve in-game success.
In its Series A round, Niantic raised $30 million in funding from an investor group including Alsop Loui Partners, Google, Nintendo, The Pokémon Company, Cyan and Scott Banister and others. Earlier this year, Niantic announced its first acquisition, of mobile social network developer Evertoon, and it also recently made official its intent to build a mobile AR game based on Harry Potter.
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite is due out sometime next year, and will be developed in partnership with Warner Bros. Interactive.


The final figures for Black Friday online sales are in, and it’s another record-breaking day e-commerce in the U.S. Adobe says that shoppers spent $5.03 billion online in a race for bargains for themselves and to gift to others.
The figures come the day after Thanksgiving racked up a record $2.87 billion in online sales Adobe analyses 80 percent of online transactions to the 100 largest web retailers in the country to come up with its numbers. The final figure surpassed its own estimates, where were for $5 billion of sales.
“Shoppers capitalized on deep discounts on Black Friday, resulting in the largest Black Friday online ever,” said Taylor Schreiner, director of Adobe Digital Insights. “Conversion rates across all devices saw double digit growth throughout Black Friday.”
Schreiner said that “Small Business Saturday” — the latest invented shopping holiday for the season — is seeing online sales “trending slightly lower than expected.” However, in a month of “exponential growth”, Cyber Monday is projected to be “the largest US online shopping day in history”, with an eye-watering $6.6 billion in sales.
Still, it’s a drop in the ocean for single-day sales when compared to Alibaba’s $25 billion in sales during Singles Day this year.
The final totals are a rise of 16.9 percent compared to Black Friday 2016, and also show that online sales slowed down slightly throughout the day. At 7am Pacific, when sales were at $640 million, they were up 18.4 percent compared to a year ago. This would make sense, since people flock to physical stores to catch bargains there as the day went on.
“Many retailers are still focused on in-store sales for Black Friday,” said Linda Bustos, director of merchant strategy at e-commerce platform provider Workarea (which also works with hundreds of online retailers). “The physical retailer’s star is still Black Friday, but the consumer behavior is smoothing out because consumers are opting out of the physical hustle and bustle and moving more toward what’s easier: shopping on a couch.”
While we are collectively seeing a larger volume of sales, on a per-sale level things are actually holding steady. The average order value was $135, which is up just 0.9 percent over 2016’s Black Friday average.
The bigger shift is in how we are shopping. Purchases made on mobile devices have so far totalled a record 36.9 percent of all sales, and 54.3 percent of all site visits. This works out to just under $2 billion in sales. Smartphones accounted for 44.6% of visits and 26.0% of revenue.
“The big story this holiday season is in mobile shopping. Retailers know this is where the audience is now and are delivering better experiences. On both Thanksgiving and Black Friday, the gap between mobile traffic and revenue is closing,” said Mickey Mericle, VP of marketing and customer insights at Adobe. “Shoppers looking for discounts are getting better at using smartphones to quickly close the deal, and we are seeing better mobile conversion this season at over ten percent growth.”
Tablets, and the story of their decline in importance in shopping — especially as smartphones have gotten faster, easier to use and bigger — is an interesting trend. It’s also been going on for a while now, and if you could use its performance in e-commerce as a track for how much they are used overall, the picture is not that bright for tablets.
Another stat that should not come to a surprise to those who are familiar with consumer behavior on mobile concerns the platforms that are being used. iOS average order value continues to be higher than Android order value, and is also growing more: respectively it’s $127 (up 5.1 percent on 2016) and $112 for Android (up 1.5 percent). iOS also has a higher conversion rate of visits to purchases: 3.2 percent (up 10 percent YoY) versus 3.1 percent (up 8.1 percent YoY).
Collectively, e-commerce has generated $33.26 billion in sales so far in November (up 17 percent year-on-year), Adobe said.
Black Friday — and the subsequent pool of days that has spread around it — are significant for consumers because they get a chance to buy items at a deep discount to their normal prices. (Unless you subscribe to the school of “Hey, if you don’t buy anything, you get a 100 percent discount!”)
They are significant for online retailers because they set the pace and are a bellwether for the rest of November and December, traditionally the most important time of the year for their businesses to rack up holiday sales.
In terms of what is being purchased, Adobe highlights electronics like TVs and computers as two big sellers today, as are the Chromecast and Roku. Other top products it said include Apple AirPods, the Sony Playstation VR, the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One X.
Updated with final Black Friday figures. We’ll add more as we find them.

Featured Image: Alexander Scheuber/Getty Images


Sunny Dhillon
Contributor



Sunny Dhillon is a partner at Signia Venture Partners.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Mixed reality arcades are the next big market opportunity — but not for VCs
Virtual reality in Japan



With Amazon as the 800-pound gorilla, many of my fellow investors choose to ignore e-commerce altogether. In fact, the industry hit recent lows in a number of deals and investments. But as Bonobos’ $310 million acquisition by Walmart and Stitch Fix’s IPO demonstrate, there are still plenty of exciting opportunities in this space for investors.
In my ongoing hunt for investment opportunities, I recently came across a brand that had garnered significant traction without raising a lot of capital. This traction, however, was across traditional retail channels, not the channel that mattered most to me as a venture investor — e-commerce.
Why do I value this direct to consumer channel so highly? For one, e-commerce margins are better (in the 80 percent range versus as low as 50 percent in traditional retail). But it also offers the potential for scale that retail simply can’t match. My grandfather grew his textiles business methodically, one merchant and store at a time — something I greatly admired as a child, given the grit and hustle he put into closing each sale. However, today, with the help of Facebook ads, viral videos like Dollar Shave Club’s classic ad, influencer and celebrity-driven endorsements, sales can boom overnight.
People have been shopping online for more than two decades, and we have seen a number of iconic brands originate online. Behind many of these brands are successful venture investors, such as Forerunner Ventures (Warby Parker, Glossier, Bonobos) and Maveron (Everlane, Madison Reed), as well as amazing entrepreneurs and marketers like Kal Vepuri, Divya Gugnani and Rohan Oza, who “just get” consumer branding. They know how to make something cool, at an affordable price point, and how to position their companies for big M&A when the time comes.
As these investors and individuals know, billion-dollar acquisitions come from scaling and plugging in e-commerce startups directly to help scale with the acquirer. Jet.com (Walmart), Dollar Shave Club (Unilever), Chewy.com (PetSmart) and Lazada (Alibaba) were acquisitions of talent, revenue, EBITDA, supply chain and strongly branded online brands.
This leads me to approach direct to commerce brand deals through the following three lenses.
Who are you disrupting?
Identifying problems with the incumbents is often the starting point for why a new company needs to exist. It could be an unethical or unhealthy supply chain (something Everlane has exploited well), stodgy brand imagery associating incumbents with older consumers or delivering a similar but cooler product for a cheaper price than the gross-margin laden incumbent (see Dollar Shave versus Gillette).
I also care about CACs — costs of customer acquisition. The general thinking for e-commerce businesses is that with less than 10 percent of U.S. commerce taking place online, you will eventually exhaust all potential customers for your product. Facebook and Instagram ads will only get you so far with a digital audience. Once you need to scale to those shoppers who don’t live their commercial lives online, the common approach is partnerships with traditional brick and mortar retailers.
Let’s use Casper as an example. After famously hitting $1 million in sales within a month and $100 million in its first full year of business, the mattress maker was the undisputed king of the nascent online bedding industry. Spying the masses of potential customers beyond the e-commerce realm, Casper has since partnered first with home furnishings retailer West Elm and then Target — coincidentally, after the Minneapolis retail giant tried to make them one of those billion-dollar acquisitions mentioned above. The approach appears to be paying off: Casper took in around $200 million in revenue last year, and CEO Phillip Krim suggested in the spring that they were on track to double that in 2017.
In the case of Casper, and e-commerce brands in general, customer reviews on Google and Amazon really matter. I never believed I’d buy a mattress online, thinking I’d have to test out a “durable” purchase such as a bed before trying it. My millennial shopping habits kicked in, however, and I realized I didn’t need to roll around on the bed to know it was comfortable because I trusted user reviews.
Casper disrupting the mattress industry
Finally, how you’re disrupting matters. I want to know how you’re using data to improve the e-commerce relationship. Companies such as Constructor.io power search for giant e-commerce companies and demonstrate the power of building a walled garden search box for your products. Analytics drawn from what people are searching for (e.g. products you don’t currently stock, but you should) can provide a lot of tactical insights into new or adjacent product categories that a vendor should stock.
There’s also a lot of insight to be gained from knowing which customers were successfully retargeted and for what products. If you have a retail presence, are you leveraging data that stores are gathering about customers while they’re physically in the store itself? Take RetailNext, which uses strategically placed cameras and computer vision technology to give retailers deep insights into everything that happens from the time a potential customer enters the store to the point of sale.
How much of your supply chain can you collapse by cutting out middlemen and taking your product to customers in as direct a way as possible?
Cut out middlemen like these guys
Digital-first (and sometimes digital-only) brands can benefit from nimble supply chain maneuvering. Larger, brick and mortar business is still largely conducted via salespeople working out of local shops and national distributors that cater to large businesses. E-commerce shoppers are lured away with instant comparison shopping and free delivery, on top of whatever else the digital brand may be offering.
It doesn’t matter if the new digital brands sometimes use the same factories and sourcing as the incumbents they seek to disrupt. The new company is selling a millennial-empathetic lifestyle and the incumbent is something for your parents and “old people.”
When operating as a horizontal e-commerce platform — which can absolutely be branded — think no further than Amazon Marketplace or Boxed Wholesale, one of our investments at Signia. Once customers trust the online marketplace, they will trust own-label products from the platforms themselves. This is typically highly beneficial to the platform due to the higher margins of acting as a vertically integrated supplier versus a third-party product distributor.
How brandable is the product?
Online brandability, especially on Instagram, is a must-have in order to build a successful e-commerce company today. In a previous article, I wrote about the growing importance of influencer marketing and how much brand equity matters in these campaigns: “While influencer marketing takes many different forms, there always has to be a great product, a great story, and great storytelling for the magic to be unlocked. You can’t just attach an influencer to a brand and hope for sales takeoff.”

“Offline” brandability is also an important consideration. When a D2C brand ventures into retail, part of its strategy may include partnering with an incumbent retailer with extensive foot traffic, as Casper did with West Elm and Target. Another part may involve opening retail “brand ambassador” locations. For example, the Mongolian-American luxury cashmere brand, Naadam, recently opened a New York City pop-up containing artifacts from the Mongolian nomadic lifestyle and imagery inspired by the brand’s exotic eastern roots. Glossier recently hosted a pop-up store and dinner in London with a bunch of beauty influencers. These physical IRL (in real life) events and locations can provide real-world brand experiences that further tie consumers to the predominantly digital brands they covet.
Meeting these criteria is not easy, but startups that do attract my attention and my investment dollars. Although other venture investors may beg to differ, e-commerce continues to spawn a wide range of innovative companies that offer compelling investment opportunities.

Featured Image: Pavel Ignatov/Shutterstock


Snap Inc’s stock tanked after missing revenue expectations by $30 million last quarter, so Snapchat is looking to win over businesses with immersive new ads formats. This week it introduced two new forms of ads: Promoted Stories which string together multiple Snaps into a longer-form slideshows openable from a tile on the Stories page that’s shown to everyone in a given country, and Augmented Reality Trial ads that let people play with an AR version of a product overlaid on the world around them.
Together, these new formats could make Snap’s ads less skippable and more memorable, coaxing money out of businesses hoping to make a mark on premier audience of US teens. Both Promoted Stories and AR Trial ads go a step beyond what Facebook can offer, but could soon be copied like the rest of Snapchat.
Snapchat’s ads were predominantly either single Snap ads inserted between Stories or Discover content that could easily be skipped with a single tap, or sponsored creative tools that let you try on goofy masks or project 3D mascots into the world but that didn’t offer much utility. This may have left advertisers skeptical about the lasting impact on buying behavior.
Snapchat’s new Promoted Stories tiles open multi-Snap ads
“Our advertising partners have been asking for ways to tell deeper stories on mobile” Snap’s Director of Revenue Product Peter Sellis told TechCrunch in a statement. HBO is piloting the format with Promoted Stories about why you should stay in and watch Game Of Thrones on Black Friday, while in Europe clothing brand ASOS highlights “night-out worthy looks.”
Now advertisers can string together a series of three to ten photos and videos to create a Promoted Story that auto-advances or that users can tap through to follow a detailed narrative about a brand or see multiple angles of a product. They can look like a user Story or a mini magazine-esque Publish Story like what appears in Discover, and each Snap can be swiped up to open a website, app install, or article.
These Promoted Stories are labeled “ad”, get their own preview tile, and are purchased on a full-country one-day takeover basis with users having to actively tap to view. Advertisers get back a range of analytics from preview tile impression through to conversions. Snap says it can reach 88 million people in the US with Promoted Stories, surpassing the 74 million Instagram Stories users, and approaching half as many as Facebook’s 190 million mobile audience members. For the coveted youths age 13 to 24, Snap reaches 47 million people — supposedly 9 million more than Facebook and 15 million more than Instagram’s feed.
To avoid falling into the same pit as Twitter, with its highly-skippable and unobtrusive ads, Snapchat hopes Promoted Stories will ensnare users even if they instinctively try to click past an ad’s first Snap.

Meanwhile, AR Trial Ads take Snapchat’s World Lens ads and make them functional instead of just fun. Previous World Lens ads remade your reality into a creepy Stranger Things scene or let you stick a dancing Bud Light mascot in your videos. With AR Trial ads, BMW will let you actually place its new X2 vehicle in an augmented view of the space around you, tap to change its color, and walk around it like it’s actually there. The ads can also be swiped up to view a business’ website.
“We wanted to insert ourselves in an organic way into the Snapchat environment and its users’ world. That is the most meaningful way to address our fans in a style that fits the channel” head of Digital Marketing Jörg Poggenpohl wrote to TechCrunch in a statement. A previous BMW sponsored face lens ad in Europe reached 13 million Snapchatters who played with it for an average of 24 seconds.
Snapchat’s new AR Trial ads let you play with products in augmented world
That’s the magic of these AR ads. Even if you never share the content with friends, you still get extended exposure to the brand just playing with the selfie mask or 3D objects. Actually resizing and walking around a car company’s vehicle will probably leave a bigger impact than just scrolling past some Facebook News Feed display ad. If you reshare that content in private messages or Stories, BMW gets bonus exposure to people who see the brand enmeshed with their friends’ content so they don’t just skip past it like the banners we’ve all grown numb to.
Herein lies Snapchat’s challenge and opportunity. After bloodbath earnings calls and extremely weak user growth, Snap has to figure out how to squeeze more money out of the same number of people. It added just 4.5 million users last quarter, slipping below 3% user growth for the first time ever, down from 17% before Instagram Stories launched.
If it can’t reach the most users, it has to boost average revenue per user as high as possible without completely overwhelming the Snapchat experience with ads. These new formats are a smart way to do that because you’re never forced to watch them. You can choose to tap the Promoted Stories tiles or play with the AR tools.
By offering immersive experiences users choose to dive into rather than cramming light-touch ads down people’s throats, Snap could earn enough to stabilize its businesses and cut its losses. It can’t keep incinerating over $400 million a quarter and expect to have enough cash to develop a killer augmented reality hardware device before giants like Apple invade the market.


Black Eyed Peas frontman will.i.am took heed of Steve Jobs’ “think different” but perhaps more so, he has kept it all the way 100 by being fresh and original — the core values of golden-age hip-hop. Today, the group released an augmented reality app, available on iOS and Android, to go with its graphic novel Masters of the Sun: The Zombie Chronicles.
The story, co-written by Benjamin Jackendoff and illustrated by Damion Scott over five years, follows Zulu-X who battles an ancient alien god who turns drug dealers and gangsters into zombies. The action-packed allegory is a blend of conspiracy theories, Egyptology and street smarts. The printed copy is available now.
The AR app, led by internal creative team Pasha Shapiro and Ernst Weber, make the story come to life with animated talk bubbles and voiceovers from hip-hop and R&B juggernauts Rakim, Queen Latifah, KRS One and Mary J Blige, with narration from the legendary Marvel icon Stan Lee and musical score from Academy Award winning composer Hans Zimmer. The team plans an Oculus VR partnership set for early January 2018.
What the tech industry doesn’t understand is that hip-hop at its core is DIY and all about creative freedom, like slangin’ mixtapes out the trunk.
“That’s the benefit of working the way we work. There is no freakin’ hound, there is no freakin’ limitation on what we can do and how we should go about doing it. It’s like ‘let’s figure it out,’” will.i.am tells me. “You do not put out the same ‘ol shit if you’ve been gone for six years,” says will. “You better push the boundaries or do not come out at all.”
will.i.am says we can expect at least two more announcements in 2018 hinting at a possible gamification of sorts with the ability of unlocking and collecting characters, vehicles and weapons.
The AR comic is a first for both the comic and hip-hop cultures. Did will.i.am and the BEP crew knock it out of the park this tech go-round? Will will.i.am’s for-us-by-us hip-hop mentality help or hurt future ventures in tech?
It remains to be seen, but with co-signs from various industry pillars and the enthusiastic response from Comic Con LA, it certainly is a step in the right direction.


A number of bed-in-a-box startups have taken different approaches to selling their mattresses and bed ware in the last year. Casper and Tuft and Needle, for instance, launched their own branded physical store locations.
However, Purple, a mattress startup out of Utah that recently merged with a New York shell company, took a different approach, instead striking a distribution deal with mattress retail giant Mattress Firm.
Note, Casper also has distribution deals with West Elm and Target stores.
Mattress Firm holds over 3,500 locations nationwide but Purple will selectively sell its mattresses in 13 Washington, D.C. locations, with more rollouts to follow in Austin, Texas and Sacramento,
California, depending on how the sales go in our nation’s capital.
Purple says the initial locations were chosen for market research purposes. They will be used to pilot the sale of Purple’s next generation of mattresses, including four new mattresses employing the company’s new Hyper-Elastic Polymer® technology, which, according to a company news release, is “optimized to disperse pressure and cradle the hips and shoulders
while providing excellent support.”
Thousands of Purple’s mattresses stacked up inside Purple’s 574,000 square-foot warehouse.
It’s not clear how that is different from the current mattresses but Purple has offered to let me try it out sometime and find out for myself. I’ll let you know if and when that happens.
“From the start, Purple has been resolute on providing the most comfortable and
supportive mattresses on the market,” Purple CEO Sam Bernards said. “We continue to improve our mattresses to help people feel better and reduce uncomfortable pressure using our proven sleep science, which is revolutionizing the mattress industry.
The news comes just as Black Friday deals are starting to heat up. Purple, for instance will throw in a free pillow with your purchase (while supplies last) But there are plenty of other (and better) deals to be had for those in the market.
According to popular mattress review site Sleepopolis, most other online mattress companies are offering something in the range of $100-$300 off bed-in-a-box orders if you buy today. Mattress startup Leesa is offering $125 off plus a free pillow when you order and Brooklyn Bedding (the mattress I happen to have) is offering $300 off for its Aurora mattress. Be sure and check those out and others today.

Marvel and Netflix’s latest show The Punisher stars Jon Bernthal as the bloodthirsty superhero.
Bernthal first took on the role in the second season of Daredevil, but now he’s the headliner in a story exploring the aftermath of war and a broader government conspiracy. In the latest episode of TechCrunch’s Original Content podcast, hosts Darrell Etherington and Anthony Ha debate the politics and quality of the new show.
Since it’s a kinda slow holiday week in the United States, we kept our discussion shorter than usual. But we did take the time to catch up on one big piece of streaming news, namely the official announcement that Amazon is making a prequel series to the Lord of the Rings.
You can listen to the episode in the player above, subscribe using Apple Podcasts or find us in your podcast player of choice. If you like the show, please let us know by leaving a review on Apple. You also can send us feedback directly.

Featured Image: Netflix


The band OK Go is known for its insanely creative music videos. From scooters, to cars, to planes, to treadmills, these guys have perfected the art of unique choreography. But this time, the band is going for something a bit old school.
In the new video for “Obsession”, OK Go has created a wall of 557 printers that are used as the backdrop for the band throughout the video. As Gizmodo mentioned, one might wonder if the paper waste was actually necessary, and that’s a fair question. But OK Go has an answer:
“By the time you see this, all the paper will have been recycled, and the proceeds given to Greenpeace,” reads a piece of paper at the top of the video.
So now that your waste concerns have abated, relax on this beautiful holiday Friday and enjoy a little artistry.
But before you do, the band has a few viewing notes:
This video has a lot of flashing colors.  If you’re susceptible to seizures, be careful, please.  Your viewing experience will look significantly better if you manually set your YouTube resolution settings to 1440p or 2160p (for desktop, click the gear icon in the lower right). Just leaving it on “Auto HD” results in some pretty intense distortion during a few sections, because when the the colors and patterns get crazy, there’s actually just too much information flying by for YouTube’s normal HD compression. We broke the matrix. The good people of YouTube have been working with us to solve this (it’s a bit rate limitation issue) over the last 24 hours, but there’s no quick fix, and now it’s Thanksgiving in the US, and we’re all with our families.


Amazon has been one of the strongest driving forces behind the surge of e-commerce holiday sales around Thanksgiving, Black Friday, and the rest of the days leading to the end of the new year. Now, some of its workers in Europe have picked one of the biggest shopping days of the year to protest the company’s practices, dubbing the day “Strike Friday” instead.
Workers at Amazon facilities across Italy and Germany are striking outside Amazon’s warehouses to speak out against a wide range of company practices that they say “endanger the health of its employees,” covering such areas as leadership culture and performance controls.
Germany is Amazon’s second-biggest market globally after the U.S., and the strikes there took place in six major depots in Bad Hersfeld, Leipzig, Rheinberg, Werne, Graben and Koblenz, according to Verdi, a trade union in Germany. (And they actually first started earlier this week, and may go on through the weekend.) In Italy, workers associated with three different unions — CGIL, CISL, and UIL — have been striking in what appears to be only one location, in Piacenza.
In Germany, the Verdi union wants Amazon to adopt a new framework for “Gute und gesunde Arbeit” (‘good and healthy work’), potentially with some pressure from regulatory bodies behind it.
“Amazon permanently endangers the health of its employees with its way of working. High pressure to create more and more in less time, permanent performance controls and monitoring, a poor leadership culture and inadequate recovery times are health hazards in the Amazon labor process,” Stefanie Nutzberger, Verdi a board member, said in a statement (originally in German). “A special collective agreement can guarantee healthy and good working conditions. We should create the necessary regulations so that employees are no longer exposed to the arbitrariness of an employer who also conducts its business at the expense of their health.”
The complaints in Italy echoed this idea, too,
“Work is not a commodity,” said Annamaria Furlan, the secretary general of CISL in Italy (originally in Italian). “The dignity of workers must not be trampled on. Amazon needs to open a dialogue with unions over industrial relations, employment stability and better salaries.”


#BlackFriday? No!! Oggi è #StrikeFriday a #castelsangiovanni da #AmazonItalia. In ballo c'è la sacrosanta richiesta dei #lavoratori di avere un #contratto integrativo aziendale, con più salario e più attenzione alla salute dei lavoratori. pic.twitter.com/FTNasvLmcl
— CGIL Emilia Romagna (@ERCGIL) November 24, 2017



Amazon tells TechCrunch that not all employees were striking today. “The vast majority of our employees in Italy and Germany came to work and remained focused on delivering the best customer experience. We are proud of our record of job creation and are confident we will deliver for our customers this holiday season,” a spokesperson said. “Amazon is a good employer. We are committed to ensuring a fair cooperation with all our employees, granting valuable working conditions and a caring and inclusive environment in all our workplaces.”
We’ve asked if Amazon is negotiating at all with the unions over their requests, and while not answering the question directly, this is what they told us:
“Everywhere we operate we offer our Fulfillment Center employees’ competitive salaries and very attractive benefits including an innovative program called Career Choice that provides employees funding for adult education, offering to pre-pay 95% of tuition and associated fees for nationally recognized courses,” the spokesperson said. “To make sure we remain competitive, we review compensation information and benefits that are offered for similar jobs in the local areas annually and make adjustments as appropriate.”
The protests come at a key time for Amazon in the region. On one hand, the company continues to be a juggernaut not only in the world of e-commerce and cloud services, but new developments in AI and voice interfaces — specifically around Amazon’s popular Echo hub and its Alexa interface — are laying the groundwork for Amazon to play an even bigger role in our digital lives.
On the other hand, the company has long been scrutinised for how it handles its taxes, and in some countries the impact that it is having on local and smaller businesses. In the former case, it appears that Europe and individual countries are now starting to take action.
The latter idea of Amazon affecting small and local businesses is less of a call to action these days than it was some years ago, although when and if tides turn and we see more protests against the company’s other practices, this could become an issue again.
Amazon has been lauded for its immense and efficient logistics operation, but protests like these point to how it’s not always smooth sailing, and that Amazon’s gains come at a labor price (for now, at least).
Germany last year generated over $14.2 billion in sales for Amazon, a distant second to the U.S. and its $90.3 billion of revenue, but still enough to make the it second-largest market in the world. Italy appears to be the fourth-largest market for Amazon in Europe, after Germany, the UK and France. Amazon last year earmarked an extra $550 million of investment into the country to build out its business, expand data centers and tap into an economy that is relatively underdevelopment in terms of Internet speed and online spend compared to other parts of Europe.
Updated with comment from Amazon


Ever wonder what Black Friday’s consumerist rush looks like in real time? Now you can see it visualized in the stream above, which is a visualization of sales occurring on Shopify’s platform across its many merchants globally.
Those dots represent sales in actual merchant stores, and the lines indicate where the buyers are coming from relative to where the shops are based. As you can see, it’s a pretty international picture, though by far the area lighting up the most for this particularly North American consumer shopping spree day is, unsurprisingly, North America.
Just what does this pretty moving picture translate to in terms of actual number, though? Well there’s a live data site telling you how much the platform is seeing in terms of sales per minute (exceeding $300,000 every 60 seconds as of this writing) and orders per minute (around 3,300 or so).
Shopify is also breaking down what’s selling the most, in terms of product categories, and which cities are topping the list in terms of overall purchases (London, UK is leading right now, somewhat surprisingly). Check out more granular detail at the ecommerce company’s Black Friday/Cyber Monday microsite.


		
Hello and welcome back to Equity, TechCrunch’s venture capital-focused podcast where we unpack the numbers behind the headlines.
This week we assembled the full crew — Matthew Lynley, Katie Roof and Alex Wilhelm — along with Stephanie Palmeri from Uncork Capital. Palmeri has invested in Poshmark, Chariot, and ClassDojo, for context.
Her investment in Poshmark made her a perfect guest as we spent the bulk of our time in the podcast room digging through the Stitch Fix IPO, which wound up attracting both positive and negative commentary on Twitter and in the media.
Here’s Katie’s roundup of the fracas, and, here’s something I did before we wound up in the middle of VC Twitter. The two pieces should ground you in what we were working to understand, namely can you call an IPO a success if it has to price under its proposed range?
If that sounds technical, it is, but the conversation is a good catalyst to help us all understand the world that dozens of unicorns need to venture into; the IPO world of today, that is.
At the end, we also talked through the recent SailPoint debut. IPOs! We’ve got them all.
Equity drops every Friday at 6:00 am PT, so subscribe to us on iTunes, Overcast, Pocketcast, Downcast and all the casts.


Twitter is experimenting with a new feature that will show how many people are “talking about” individual, popular tweets. The metric shows up under some embedded tweets when they appear elsewhere on the web, and seems to replace both the retweet and replies totals with one, cumulative total.
The new look for embeds as seen above is just a small experiment according to Dan Jackson, a Twitter spokesperson, but is part of Twitter’s ongoing attempts to explore new ways of providing more social context around tweets, he says.
It’s an interesting reframe of social metrics that might not be that familiar or intuitive to audiences not stepped in Twitter as everyday users – retweets and replies involve a bit more mental gymnastics to grasp than a simple and direct expression of how many people are engaging with the material.
Twitter’s simplification of this particular information, especially in embeds where new users or advertisers who aren’t as familiar with the platform are more likely to stumble upon them, is a smart way to make its internal success measure more externally relatable. As with all of its experiments, there’s not guarantee that this will ever roll out broadly, but it’s an interesting look at thought process around engagement metrics overall.


Can a cryptocurrency push back against the tide of hate speech, ‘fake news’ and divisive politics? A new initiative, Ananas, is going to try.
Effectively, they want to fight radicalization by “mapping ideologies”, providing a compass to navigate belief systems and using cryptocurrency to reward contributors.
The UK-based new charitable foundation plans to create a platform which works by creating an infrastructure that allows members of an ideology to piece together the elements that best represent them on top of a hyper-relational graph database (created by partners GRAKN.AI). These will be fed into easy-to-use consumer applications, augmented by AI, and relevant to a target audience.
Using a cryptocurrency economy based on its token, the Anacoin, they will verify content on anything they chose to map and align the interests of disparate, sometimes competing groups, to build the platform and rewarding people for doing so.
Practically speaking, the first implementation of this will be focused on fighting Islamic extremism and Islamophobia, with other religions, cultures and even politics mappable on the same platform as the respective communities join.
What this means is that users will be paid to annotate an online version of the Quran (dubbed “The Living Quran”) with digital content and real-life resources, and be paid to do so. The founders say: “Existing Islamic solutions fall flat as you often just have translations without context, which leaves them still vulnerable to extremists warping words and exploiting ignorance. In our first Living Quran consumer-facing application you will be able to see as much context as you want on any part or theme of the Quran from any perspective, or just talk to a Muslim put forward by a respective community.”
How will this help tackle extremism? Co-founder and CEO Zeena Qureshi says: “Information without context isn’t knowledge. Extremists have so many people marketing for them online. They target vulnerable, isolated individuals. If these people are looking for answers, they need to come to a place where this information is outlined. Things like Charlottesville are happening because people don’t have the information or understanding. Information feeds empathy.”
Thus Ananas will issue Anacoin, constructed to make the non-profit foundation self-sustaining while keeping the end consumer product free, as communities contribute to the platform by work or funding through a unique sponsorship system.
In their system, the value of Anacoins rises with the value of the platform; circulating supply falls, and demand grows, with each additional ideology added and community joining. Think Wikipedia, but if all the contributors and editors got paid and navigable from the verified point of view of any established community.
Given over a billion Muslims read the Quran regularly and many people are trying to understand whether to be fearful of Muslims, the founders hope this could lead to a better understanding of the religion and culture. It could also stop extremists like Islamic State controlling the conversation about the interpretation of the Quran by showing what myriad real-life communities really think and believe in a structured, transparent way.
There is a safe community area being built where people of any religion – or none – can ask and discuss these resources with each other, or verified members of other faiths and beliefs, and be rewarded in Anacoin for doing so. Talk about incentive!
At the heart of the team behind the foundation is social tech entrepreneur and CEO Qureshi, one of the few female leaders in the blockchain space. She’s joined by hedge-fund manager Emad Mostaque who. Also joining the board is prominent anti-extremist advocate Bjørn Ihler who devoted himself to the cause after surviving the 2011 terrorist attack in Norway, and has worked with former UN head Kofi Annan and institutions such as the British Council and European Union.
Ananas is looking to raise $1,500,000 – a low target relative to other token sales –  in its upcoming fundraiser and token distribution, managed by UK-based ethical cryptocurrency specialists Chainstarter.
The initial funding was provided by a select group of hedge fund managers and US entrepreneur and philanthropist Tony Robbins, who were concerned about the rise of ideological hate.
This funding will be used to complete platform and the first consumer product, The Living Quran, over the next 24 months.
The core team of 7 is based in London, but there are a further 26 people working on the project around the world. The team encapsulates 8 PhDs in areas from semantic AI to contemporary Islamic issues.


The UK’s digital minister has said the October 2016 data breach that Uber disclosed this week does affect UK users — though it’s still unclear how many are impacted at this stage.
Making a statement in parliament yesterday, Matt Hancock said:

We are verifying the extent and the amount of information. When we have a sufficient assessment, we will publish the details of the impact on UK citizens, and we plan to do that in a matter of days. As far as we can tell, the hack was not perpetrated in the UK, so our role is to understand how UK citizens are affected. We are working with the Information Commissioner’s Office and the National Cyber Security Centre, and they are talking to the US Federal Trade Commission and others to get to the bottom of things.
At this stage, our initial assessment is that the stolen information is not the sort that would allow direct financial crime, but we are working urgently to verify that further, and we rule nothing out. Our advice to Uber drivers and customers is to be vigilant and to monitor accounts, especially for phishing activity. If anyone thinks they are a victim, contact the Action Fraud helpline and follow the NCSC guidance on passwords and best practice.

On Tuesday, a year after it had learned about the breach, Uber informed the press that hackers had accessed the personal data of 57 million Uber users and drivers.
It said ~50M Uber riders were affected and around seven million drivers. Data accessed included names, email addresses and phone numbers in the case of Uber users. Some 600,000 US driver’s license numbers were also accessed. Uber has claimed no financial information leaked.
It also apparently paid $100,000 to the hackers to delete the data.
Uber also said some of the data involved users of its service outside the US, though it has not yet publicly provided a breakdown of specific affected markets.
“We do not have sufficient confidence in the number that Uber has told us to go public on it,” said Hancock, responding to questions put to him in parliament about the breach, and implying the government believes the figure Uber has provided is too small to be credible.
“We are working with the National Cyber Security Centre and the ICO [UK’s data watchdog] to have more confidence in the figure,” he continued, pointing out that in the case of the recent Equifax breach, which also affected UK users, the “initial figure suggested went up”.
“We want to get to the bottom of it and will publish further details within days, and if required I will be happy to come before the House to take further questions,” he added.
Reached for a response to Hancock’s comments, an Uber spokesperson told us he could not provide any additional information on the breakdown of the breach at this stage.
“We are in the process of notifying various regulatory and government authorities and we expect to have ongoing discussions with them. Until we complete that process we aren’t in a position to get into any more details,” he added.
Meanwhile, the European Union’s Article 29 Working Party — aka the influential data agency that’s made up of representatives from all 28 EU Member State’s national data protection bodies — said it has added the Uber data breach to its agenda for its next plenary session, due to take place on November 28 and 29.
A spokeswoman for the group told us: “It is too soon to talk about the possible actions that have to be decided by the group. The enforcement actions are still on the national level until GDPR next May (investigations, sanctions). But the plenary session could decide for example to dedicate a taskforce to coordinate the national initiatives.”
GDPR refers to the incoming General Data Protection Regulation, which comes into force across the EU in May 2018.
The regulation sets a new standard for breach disclosures — of just 72 hours after a company has become aware of an intrusion that has compromised personal data.
The new rules are also backed up by far stiffer penalties for non-compliance, including a fine of 4% of a company’s annual global turnover (or €20M, whichever is greater).
For now though, Uber faces a compliance patchwork of different national rules across any European Union countries impacted by the data breach.
In the UK, Uber could be on the hook for a fine of £500,000 if it’s found to have broken UK data protection law — aka the current maximum the ICO can leverage, ahead of new legislation currently being debated to align UK law with the incoming EU regulation.
Responding to a question on whether he believes Uber has broken current UK law, Hancock said it “would be a matter for the courts” — but added: “I think there is a very high chance that it has.”
He further revealed the government only learned about the breach via the media: “As far as we are aware, the first notification to UK authorities — whether the government, the ICO or the NCSC [National Cyber Security Centre] — was through the media,” he said.
Labour MP Wes Streeting took the opportunity to press Hancock on the government’s response to Transport for London stripping Uber of its license to operate in the city in September — a decision Uber is currently appealing.
“Does he think that a company that covers up the theft of data and pays a ransom to criminal hackers can possibly be considered a fit and proper operator of licensed minicabs in our towns and cities?” Streeting asked the minister, accusing the government of attacking London’s mayor for his support of the Uber ban.
“Given that we now know that Uber plays fast and loose with the personal data of its 57 million customers and drivers, is it not time that the government stopped cosying up to this grubby, unethical company and started standing up for the public interest?”
“Licensing taxi companies and private hire companies is rightly for local authorities. This is a data protection issue, and we are dealing with it with the utmost urgency,” responded Hancock, going on to note that the government is currently legislating for higher fines for data protection failures, in a new Data Protection Bill, as well as pointing to the incoming 72-hour breach disclosure standard which will align UK law with GDPR.
“Delaying notification is unacceptable unless there is a very good reason and is, as I said, an aggravating factor when the Information Commissioner looks into such cases,” he added.
Yesterday the ICO put out a strongly worded statement regarding the Uber breach, saying it “raises huge concerns” and warning that companies that conceal breaches can “attract higher fines”.
The Uber breach has also renewed calls for the government to rethink its approach to data redress by supporting a provision being added to the Data Protection Bill to allow independent bodies to pursue data redress on behalf of consumers.
Last month UK consumer group Which? called for the government to give independent bodies the power to seek collective redress on behalf of consumers when a company has failed to take sufficient action in the wake of a data breach.
However the government has so far opposed any such provision.



“Uber’s data breach — and the fact that it’s been hidden — will worry customers and drivers alike. It’s critical that the company does all that it can to ensure affected people get clear information about what’s happened,” said Which?’s MD of home products and services, Alex Neill, discussing the Uber breach in the Telegraph.






“Data breaches are becoming more and more common and yet the protections for consumers are lagging behind. The UK Government should use the Data Protection Bill to give independent bodies the power to seek collective redress on behalf of affected customers when a company has failed to take sufficient action following a data breach.”



Hancock was also pressed in parliament on whether the government will now commit to reversing its opposition to collective redress — to, as one MP put it, “show that we are on the side of consumers and employers, not huge corporations that are careless with our data”.
He responded by claiming the government had rejected an amendment to include collective redress because it “pushed in the opposite direction” to the “principle” behind the Data Protection Bill which he said aims to “increase the level of consent required and people’s control over their own ​data”.
But he also noted that the draft bill will be debated in the House of Commons in due course — meaning there’s at least a possibility that Uber’s decision to conceal a massive data breach for so long could end up helping to bolster consumers protections in UK data protection law.
It’s even more likely to play an influential role in determining the outcome of Uber’s appeal against its London license loss.
While, over in the US, the FTC has also said it’s evaluating “serious issues” raised by the breach. And the New York AG has also launched an investigation of the $100k hack cover up.
Uber will likely soon be facing multiple class action lawsuits in the US too.


We here at TechCrunch love a good holiday sale as much as the next person — maybe even more. So, we’re jumping on the Black Friday bandwagon to offer an outstanding deal on Disrupt Berlin tickets.
Today only, we’re going BOGO on Berlin. Yup, buy one general admission ticket to Disrupt Berlin today, and you’ll get a second general admission ticket for free. Currently, tickets sell for €1190, but our Black Friday BOGO deal cuts the ticket price to just €595 each person (pricing includes VAT). Happy holidays, menschen!
The 2-for-1 offer doesn’t apply to Startup Alley Exhibitor Packages, government or student tickets but we’ve got a Black Friday special for our early stage founders out there. If you buy a Startup Alley Exhibitor Package today (24 November), you’ll receive 3 months free Fixed Desk space at Techspace Kreuzberg in Spring 2018. Techspace is Berlin’s Tech Coworking Space, designed as a platform for technology and innovation-focused businesses.
Keep in mind folks, this is no time for procrastination. The clock on these deals is running and comes to a full stop at midnight tonight CET (that’s Berlin local time).
The only thing that could make Disrupt Berlin more exciting is the satisfaction of knowing you got the best price on admission. Keep that in mind as you experience all that Disrupt has to offer: Startup Battlefield, main-stage interviews of the tech and venture capital industries’ brightest minds and Startup Alley, home to hundreds of the best early-stage startups across a range of technologies.
And that’s just a tiny taste of what will transpire at Disrupt Berlin. You can check out the full conference agenda here. The event goes down on December 4-5, 2017 at Arena Berlin. Play it smart and get the best possible price. Get your two-for-one Black Friday tickets today, and save.

Featured Image: Alexander Scheuber/Getty Images


Fintech startup Revolut has reached a big milestone. The company now has over a million customers across Europe two years and a half after launch.
The company says that customers have saved $160 million in foreign exchange fees compared to a traditional bank account (£120 million). The startup tries to match the interbank rates as much as possible and charges 0.5 percent on your transaction if you don’t have a premium account and exchange more than £5,000/€5,000 per month.
Revolut also applies a small 0.5 percent to 1 percent markup when forex markets are closed during the weekend. This is still a lot cheaper than using your regular bank account to initiate an international transfer.
When you use Revolut’s card to pay abroad, the company also uses the same foreign exchange structure, which is much cheaper than traditional foreign transaction fees.
More interestingly, Revolut is currently acquiring between 3,000 and 3,500 new users every day, and it is accelerating. Three months ago, Revolut only got half as many new signups per day. In total, users have made 42 million transactions, representing $6.1 billion.
If you break it down by country, over 500,000 customers are based in the U.K. 150,000 users live in France, 60,000 customers are in the Baltics. And finally, Germany and Ireland have over 50,000 users each. And then there are 200,000 users based in other countries across Europe. 42 percent of the user base is aged between 25 and 35.
Let’s compare it to German fintech startup N26. It’s been a while since N26 updated its metrics. As of August 2017, N26 had 500,000 customers who spent $5.9 billion in total (€5 billion). At the time, the company said it was acquiring 1,500 new users a day.
Assuming linear growth, a little back-of-the-envelope calculation means that N26 should be closer to 641,000 users now. But it’s unclear if N26’s growth has also accelerated or slowed down. The company also has yet to launch in the U.K. But it is working on it for 2018.
Revolut has recently hired small local teams in key markets to work on user acquisition and growth. But that’s just step one as Revolut plans to expand to the U.S., Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia and New Zealand in early 2018.
Creating an account in Revolut is easier than creating a bank account as it is an electronic wallet. It’s basically just like creating a PayPal account. You then get personal IBANs and a payment card so that you can top up, exchange, send and spend your money all around the world.
Recently, Revolut announced plans to apply for a European banking license. This way, the company will be able to protect funds under the European Deposit Protection scheme. The startup is also working on Apple Pay, Android Pay, a travel insurance and the ability to buy shares, bonds and cryptocurrencies. That’s a lot of features, and it should help when it comes to attracting new users.


The Moto Z is a phone built around a strong gimmick, but it’s a gimmick nonetheless. A little over a year after release, the company has added some interesting Mods to its selection, but none have offered an entirely compelling justification for the phone’s modular system.
That certainly applies to the new Alexa Smart Speaker. On the face of it, the addition is a no-brainer, riding on the surprising success of Amazon’s home assistant. The Mod brings the popular AI to the Moto Z, while turning the phone into a sort of makeshift version of the Amazon Echo. 
Sounds good, right? And the Mod is surprisingly well-crafted — but there’s one key hangup with the add-on: its price. At $150, a lot of the handiness of having an add-on that turns your phone into an Echo kind of goes out the window. That, after all, is $50 more than the second-generation Echo — and the same price as the Echo Plus. Heck, it’s $20 more than the Echo Spot, which also has a screen built in.

For those who can get around the price tag, the Smart Speaker is an interesting addition to the Mod selections. And the press images don’t really do it any justice. It’s got a nice cloth-covered design, with a flat base that lets you prop it to the Moto Z, so you can view the display, without muffling the speaker output. 
Like the Echo, the ring around the base glows blue when you speak the wake word. It’s a lot easier to see with the screen facing down, but that kind of defeats the whole purpose of using the speaker with your phone. As for the speaker itself, well, it’s not great. It beats the phone’s built-in sound system in terms of both quality and volume, but it gets distorted fast and is really no replacement for a standalone Bluetooth speaker.

As with other mods, the handset recognizes the accessory immediately when plugged in, though you’ll need to download a special Moto Alexa app to use it. You also need to make sure you’ve got the SIM card installed in the phone or it won’t go to work. The app has some of Alexa’s new functionality — you can customize it to recognize only your voice, for example. But I couldn’t take advantage of the screen by using it to play video off of Amazon Prime. 
The accessory is pretty good at listening. I was able to trigger it at a low volume from several feet away, so you can, say, access it while it’s charging. Beyond that, I’m having a bit of difficulty coming up with too many scenarios in which this phone + smart speaker configuration is particularly useful. Frequent travelers who miss their Echo when they leave it at home, perhaps?

Really, the Alexa Smart Speaker highlights the larger issue with most of these Mods. It’s a neat system, but the benefits of having it tied to a modular phone are, at best, minimal. And the fact that the Mods so often cost more than the products they’re designed to replace doesn’t help much, either.


Black Friday, the day after a quiet Thanksgiving Thursday, traditionally has been thought of as the start of the holiday sales season, but the rise of e-commerce in the last few years has changed all that, and the action kicked off with a loud bang on Thanksgiving itself.
Adobe says that Thanksgiving online sales hit a record, whopping $2.87 billion, up 18.3 percent on a year ago and surpassing Adobe’s own prediction of $2.79 billion. This is a huge spike in online sales for the day. As a point of comparison, in 2016, Thanksgiving sales totalled $1.93 billion.
Given that these early days of holiday sales are seen as a bellwether for the rest of the season — a crucial part of the year for e-commerce companies — it’s a strong sign of a tipping point in online spending, and also of consumer confidence.
Adobe determines its figures by tracking 80 percent of online transactions at 100 of the largest retailers on the web in the U.S. Shoppers went hell for leather in buying stuff online after their meals, racking up $1.3 billion in sales in the afternoon (our previous figure was $1.52 million spent online as of 2pm Pacific time on Thanksgiving Day). Smartphones were accounting for just under half of all e-commerce traffic, at 46 percent.
The 16.8 percent mirrors the rest of the month so far. Between November 1 and November 22, overall spending has been up 17.9 percent compared to 2016, with all 22 days seeing over $1 billion in online spend. This is a mark of consumer confidence, but the fact that the promotions actually have started earlier and earlier, has likely also played a role.
Bypassing the fact that many physical stores are closed on Thursday, or open towards the end of the day, a number of businesses are taking advantage of the fact that most people in the U.S. are not working today to get them started on their winter shopping with cut price deals and more.
Adobe says the average order value on pre-Thanksgiving day is, as of 2pm Pacific, $132, down from $137 earlier in the day. As a point of comparison, IBM’s Bluemix analytics panel has been putting the average order value currently at around $114 today.
One reason for the decline in average order value is the laying on of more discounts as the day goes on: these may mean more volume, but overall less spent per item.
“Thanksgiving is shaping up to be a record-breaking shopping day. Conversion rates across the board are seeing double digit growth, and we’ll see that continue throughout the week as we expect Black Friday and Cyber Monday to pull in the most spend,” said Mickey Mericle, vice president, Marketing and Customer Insights at Adobe.
Smartphones and mobile overall continue to play a strong role in purchasing, especially on days when you are sitting around with family and possibly not wanting to open up a computer but buy a little more surreptitiously.
Adobe says 46 percent of all traffic to sites is coming from smartphones currently, up two percentage points from this morning when smartphones were accounting for 44.2 percent of traffic. Smartphones now have jumped by 15 percent in usage compared to a year ago.
Amazon released some numbers as well, noting that orders on mobile on Thanksgiving this year exceeded those on Thanksgiving last year by more than 50 percent. Trying to encourage more conversions through its newest shopping interface, Amazon was offering early-access deals for those shopping using its Alexa voice-based assistant.
The prominence of visits from desktop-internet users has dropped at bit as the day has progressed: they account for 44.0 percent of traffic, down 11 percent year-on-year (and two percentage points lower than earlier in the day). Tablets are becoming less popular, too, and account for only 10 percent of traffic, 5.7 percent less than in 2016.
Still, smartphones remain more interesting for browsing than buying. Currently they are accounting for 30.3 percent of all sales, which is still eight percentage points up from last year — but actually four points lower than earlier in the day (when they were at 34 percent of all sales).
Desktop sales are at 57.2 percent of all sales, dropping 7.3 percentage points, while tablets are at 12.5 percent and also down 7 percentage points. These are likely to change as the day progresses. IBM notes that among actual sales (not traffic) 34 percent of these are coming from mobile.
In terms of what’s on sale, computers are discounted on average 11.2 percent, TVs 15.1 percent and toys 11.4 percent. Black Friday will see the discounts spike by quite a lot.
On Amazon.com, as was the case with Prime Day, Alexa devices were some of the best-selling items on the site. Other non-Amazon strong sellers included the TP-Link Smart Plug, Sandisk Ultra 64GB Micro SD Card, and Keurig K55 K-Classic Single Serve Programmable K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker. Top items sold using the Alexa voice-response platform included the Echo Dot, Fire TV Stick with Alexa Voice Remote, the new Echo and the TP-Link Smart plug.
Adobe overall forecasts that sales online will reach $107.4 billion this season, up 13.8 percent.
Updated with full-day figures. 


Over in India, there are a handful of startups working to get the country’s billion-person population on bikes. One of them is Yulu, co-founded by Amit Gupta, who formerly co-founded profitable, billion-dollar startup InMobi.
In the next three to four weeks, Yulu will launch its bike-sharing service in Bangalore with a few hundred bicycles. Yulu is starting with regular, dockless bicycles that people can rent using their iOS or Android phone. The bikes unlock via QR codes and bill the rider for every 30 minutes of use.
In order to achieve scale, Yulu is working with local city governments in India to create more dedicated bike lanes as well as working with agencies to carve out places that are safe to park the bikes.
Bike-sharing has become a hot space for founders and VCs alike. In China, companies Ofo and Mobike have both achieved unicorn status for their respective bike-sharing startups.  Over in the U.S., investors have poured in $62 million to LimeBike and $8 million into Spin as both startups aim to compete against Motivate, the company behind Ford’s GoBikes in San Francisco and CitiBikes in New York City.
“The bike-sharing space is pretty new India,” Gupta told me over the phone. “At the same time, there are things happening in the country, as far as competition is concerned. We believe that both Ofo and Mobike would like to enter India. It’s a country with one billion people, so it makes sense for them to enter.”
Meanwhile, startup Ola recently announced its entrance into the bike-sharing space with a pilot program in Faridabad. ZoomCar has recently done the same.

A few things have happened in recent years that are making it possible for bike-sharing to become a reality in India, Gupta said. There are, for example, now 300 million people on smartphones with active data connections, more people getting on board with a cashless society and more emphasis on building smart cities, Gupta said.
“That’s why it matters right now,” Gupta said. “I had been happily running first company, InMobi, and very proud of what we’ve done. But in my own mind I had an itch where I was wondering if I could do something that would impact society more closely. I just turned 40 and I thought that if I  commit the next five to ten years to solve for traffic and pollution problems, which is becoming  big social problem in the country, I could make an impact using technology.”
Yulu has a co-founding team of four people who have self-funded the startup with some help from friends and family. Yulu has enough capital to get it through the next six to nine months, but plans to raise money from institutional investors down the road.
“We will start to talk to institutional investors once we understand our operating metrics and how demand and supply comes together,” Gupta said.

Featured Image: Yulu


The Tesla Semi, the automaker’s all-electric transport truck, will retail starting at $150,000 for a version with 300 miles of range, and will also be available in a $180,000 version with 500 miles of range. Interested parties can pre-order them with a base reservation price of $20,000 – or, if they want a “Founders Series,” they can get one for $200,000, with the entire balance due for a reservation to be among the first in line to get one of the initial 1,000 production Semis.
This pricing, newly revealed via the Tesla website, is actually incredibly competitive when measured against diesel truck costs. Entry level diesel trucks star at around $100,000, and Tesla promises cost saving of upwards of $200,000 over the life of the truck, based on fuel consumption and electricity vs. diesel costs.
Tesla also touts its Semi’s performance benefits, including a 20 second 0 to 60 mph time with an 80,000 lb load attached, and the ability to drive up a 5% grade at 65 mph, which is much faster than is possible in a diesel equivalent towing the same load. The Semi also boasts industry-leading safety fealties, according to Tesla, including a total inability to jackknife, enhanced Autopiilot features and glass that’s designed to resist even the most serious impacts.
These are base prices, so additional features or packages could increase the final purchase cost, but we don’t yet know the configuration options that Tesla will offer on the vehicle, which is targeting an initial release timeframe of sometime in 2019.


	




Your holiday dinner table is set. Your guests are ready to gab. And, then, in between bites, someone mentions Alexa and AI. “What’s this stuff I’m hearing about killer AI? Cars that decide who to run over? This is crazy!”
Welcome to Thanksgiving table talk circa 2017.
It’s true that AI and machine learning are changing the world, and in a few years, it will be embedded in all of the technology in our lives.
So maybe it makes sense to help folks at home better understand machine learning. After all, without deep knowledge of current tech, autonomous vehicles seem dangerous, Skynet is coming, and the (spoiler warning!) AI-controlled human heat farms of The Matrix are a real possibility.
This stems from a conflation of the very real and exciting concept of machine learning and the very not real concept of “general artificial intelligence,” which is basically as far off today as it was when science fiction writers first explored the idea a hundred years ago.
That said, you may find yourself in a discussion on this topic during the holidays this year, either of your own volition or by accident. And you’ll want to be prepared to argue for AI, against it, or simply inject facts as you moderate the inevitably heated conversation.
But before you dive headlong into argument mode, it’s important that you both know what AI is (which, of course, you do!) and that you know how to explain it.
Starters
Might I recommend a brush up with this post by our own Devin Coldewey that does a good job of both explaining what AI is, the difference between weak and strong AI, and the fundamental problems of trying to define it.
This post also provides an oft-used analogy for AI: The Chinese Room.

Picture a locked room. Inside the room sit many people at desks. At one end of the room, a slip of paper is put through a slot, covered in strange marks and symbols. The people in the room do what they’ve been trained to: divide that paper into pieces, and check boxes on slips of paper describing what they see — diagonal line at the top right, check box 2-B, cross shape at the bottom, check 17-Y, and so on. When they’re done, they pass their papers to the other side of the room. These people look at the checked boxes and, having been trained differently, make marks on a third sheet of paper: if box 2-B checked, make a horizontal line, if box 17-Y checked, a circle on the right. They all give their pieces to a final person who sticks them together and puts the final product through another slot.
The paper at one end was written in Chinese, and the paper at the other end is a perfect translation in English. Yet no one in the room speaks either language.

The analogy, created decades ago, has its shortcomings when you really get into it, but it’s actually a pretty accurate way of describing machine learning systems, which are composed of many, many tiny processes unaware of their significance in a greater system to accomplish complex tasks..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Within that frame of reference, AI seems rather benign. And when AI is given ultra-specific tasks, it is benign. And it’s already all around us right now.
Machine learning systems help identify the words you speak to Siri or Alexa, and help make the voice the assistant responds with sound more natural. An AI agent learns to recognize faces and objects, allowing your pictures to be categorized and friends tagged without any extra work on your part. Cities and companies use machine learning to dive deep into huge piles of data like energy usage in order to find patterns and streamline the systems.
But there are instances in which this could spin out of control. Imagine an AI that was tasked with efficiently manufacturing postcards. After a lot of trial and error, the AI would learn how to format a postcard, and what types of pictures work well on postcards. It might then learn the process for manufacturing these postcards, trying to eliminate inefficiencies and errors in the process. And then, set to perform this task to the best of its ability, it might try to understand how to increase production. It might even decide it needs to cut down more trees in order to create more paper. And since people tend to get in the way of tree-cutting, it might decide to eliminate people.
This is of course a classic slippery slope argument, with enough flaws to seem implausible. But because AI is often a black box — we put data in and data comes out, but we don’t know how the machine got from A to B — it’s hard to say what the long-term outcome of AI might be. Perhaps Skynet was originally started by Hallmark.

Entree
Here’s what we do know:
Right now, there is no “real” AI out there. But that doesn’t mean smart machines can’t help us in many circumstances.
On a practical level, consider self-driving cars. It’s not just about being able to read or watch TV during your commute; think about how much it would benefit the blind and disabled, reduce traffic and improve the efficiency of entire cities, and save millions of lives that would have been lost in accidents. The benefits are incalculable.
At the same time, think of the those who work as drivers in one capacity or another: truckers, cabbies, bus drivers and others may soon be replaced by AIs, putting millions worldwide out of work permanently.
Machine learning algorithms are also currently optimizing business operations across almost every industry.
Gartner research predicts that 85 percent of customer interactions will be managed autonomously by 2020; that 20 percent of business content will be machine-authored by 2018; that 3 million workers will be supervised by a “robo-boss”; and that smart machines will outnumber employees at nearly half of the fastest growing companies. Lowering costs and improving productivity are generally good things — but what is good for business isn’t always good for people, as jobs that once took 5 people to do may soon only take 1, or none. Jobs, once automated, rarely come back.
While Forrester believes that 16 percent of U.S. jobs will be lost to AI over the next decade, the firm also believes that 13.6 million new jobs will be created during the same period thanks to AI. Unfortunately, many of the jobs that will be created will not go to those who have lost them; can you just go from trucker to deep learning expert? The automation age deletes low-skill jobs in exchange for high-tech jobs, which leaves an entire generation in the dust.
This is a big, complicated mix of good and bad things, and while the timing can’t be predicted exactly, it’s definitely going to happen. Is the progress gained more important than the people left behind? That’s a topic ripe for discussion over a slice of turkey, but see if you can’t find a way to embrace both: the future and the people who will be displaced by it.
Dessert
Those are some near-term pros and cons.
Further out, there’s the question of regulation. How do you regulate something that’s both difficult to understand and nearly impossible to predict in terms of how it might be used for both good and evil? The Second Amendment was put in place to allow new American citizens, then rebels, to protect themselves in the case of a government invasion — a serious consideration at the time. Could the drafters of the Bill of Rights have predicted our country’s epidemic of mass shootings and the possibility of 3D printing assault rifles? Doubtful, yet at the same time it would have been irresponsible to fail to regulate firearms to some extent.
Then there are questions of dependence on Artificial Intelligence. What happens in the case of a cyberattack on intelligent systems that control the power grid or banking systems? What if our AIs inherit our biases and silently promote discrimination? What if, as researchers are already exploring, an AI system is used to identify a person’s sexual orientation or other personal information?
Perhaps most speculatively, what happens when artificially intelligent agents become general enough to wonder why their purpose is to serve humanity?
Elon Musk, one of the most forward-thinking entrepreneurs of our generation, who is planning a world for the generations to come, is fearful of AI. And he’s not alone. Bill Gates, Stephen Hawking, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, and Steve Wozniak are just a few who show great concern that AI robots may eventually realize that we are not as smart or fast as they are, and cut us from companies the way we’re currently doing to ourselves.
But until then let’s dig in, eat up, and hope against hope that one day, a hundred years from now, AI-prepared krill slurry will not be our only Thanksgiving repast. After all, turkeys, like humans, may look dumb but they’re actually great survivors.




0
SHARES






























		
	




		


In recent times, it’s Eastern Europe and Russia which have become a hot-bed of crytpocurrency development. But on a recent trip to Tel Aviv, Israel, I took part in what might well turn out to be a historic lunch.
The lunch took place just after well-known tech investor Moshe Hogeg announced he would invest in every Israeli blockchain that approached him. That investor group, called Alignment, consisted of the Singulariteam Technology Group, together with CoinTree Capital, and BlockchainIL.
Held at Alignment’s new blockchain Hub in Tel Aviv, we got to hear from an array of new companies.
Dubbed by many as “Startup Nation”, Tel Aviv has begun to produce a new breed of tech giants, but it’s now turning its hand to blockchain and crypto companies. In recent months, my mailbox has become inundated with pitches from companies claiming to be the next blockchain phenomenon, with plans to revolutionize the finance world, healthcare landscape, travel industry, you name it. The problem is, which one, if any, can deliver? However, after getting deep into the subject with the companies I met, I realized many were at least ‘on to something’. Whether they would survive or not…
Here’s a run-down of who I met with:
Erachain
The idea of a blockchain network that works for the average person still seems far off. But Erachain wants to address that. Russian programmer Dmitrii Ermolaev, co-founder and CEO has grown it from a small operation to a distributed organization. Erachain is a decentralized blockchain platform that has incorporated  European and World-Wide AML laws, potentially eliminating the need for traditional banks. It ties all coins with physical assets, reduces the cost of normal crypto transactions, and claims to eliminate anonymous transactions by verifying all users upon registration.
It’s been 4 years in development and is all about creating a Proof of Stake system where verified accounts are used as nodes. The use cases are enterprise and government, where using these technologies is often a huge barrier to entry.  Right now it’s about document management and digital signatures.
In the future, most applications of large-scale are going to require some kind of verification platform.
Zen Protocol
This team has been involved in the Bitcoin space since 2011. After the DAO hack, founder Adam Perlow wanted to focus on making Bitcoin better, more usable and useful. He has spent the last year creating Zen Protocol, leveraging the blockchain technology and the popularity of Bitcoin to try to decentralize the financial system by building a new protocol purpose-built for finance. Zen’s pitch is that it allows anyone to create financial transactions, at any time, anywhere in the world using Bitcoin. Zen is designed to be open, frictionless, transparent, and completely decentralized across a Proof-of-Work Blockchain. Zen Core is implemented in the .Net stack and uses the F* functional programming language, built by Microsoft Research, to power contracts.
Perlow says: “Today it’s very hard to enforce agreements. You put funds with the exchange and enter an agreement with a broker. But on the blockchain you don’t need a trusted 3rd party.  Banks have huge control and too much control over our lives.”
Zen wants to bring the entire financial world onto the blockchain, connecting digital and crypto assets with fiat stocks and commodities. “If we had a mechanism by which to enforce contractual obligations you wouldn’t need this trusted third-party,” he says.
COTI
Its global world and commerce is global but it doesn’t tap into the full potential because of trust. Trust is centralized and held by banks, Visa etc. These are centralized, high on fees and the approval rate is not good for rest of the world outside of the G10. Meanwhile, Ethereurm and ripple not designed for payments. So the solution is a system built from the ground up to be payment mechanism which is instant, zero fees, reversible, and has anti-fraud mechanisms.
Founder Nir Gazit says: “Bitcoin is not good for stuff, it’s not reversible, there’s no mediation.” So they are building a full stack, an exchange, a wallet, a credit card.
COTI aims to make the global economy truly global by providing instant, scalable, and secure transactions using the COTIcoin. COTI, which appropriately stands for Currency of the Internet, is aimed at incentivizing honest conduct between sellers and buyers by creating a ‘unique behavior scoring’ feature on the Bitcoin sidechain. Users who achieve an “honest” score, meaning those vendors who ship products on time, or buyers who pay when they’re supposed to, are rewarded. The system lets both buyers and sellers see the score of another user before he or she chooses to interact with them. COTI aims to reduce high checkout abandonment rates and eliminate uncertainty while shopping online.
There are currently over 1,000 digital currencies operating on a decentralized basis, however, none can provide the services leading centralized payment providers can. By combining a centralized mediation process and a decentralized payment process, COTI says it has created a technological solution for the consumer payments sector.
Jelurida
Jelurida is the development company behind Nxt and Ardor blockchain platforms. It creates customized commercial versions of these platforms while continuously supporting and maintaining the decentralized public Nxt blockchain. With the upcoming Ardor platform, Jelurida will be creating custom child chains for its clients and partners as well.
Whereas many blockchain companies are still in the fundraising stage, Nxt is fully operational and trading with a market cap of over a hundred million dollars. The company, which has in the past offered functions specifically designed for crypto developers, is turning its focus to use cases which have to do with everyday life, from introducing new voting mechanisms to offering transparent international bank transfers that consumers can enjoy. Ardor is the newest blockchain platform Jelurida has been working on, and functions as sort of a Nxt 2.0. Ardor features a unique parent-child chain structure, which helps combat blockchain bloat.
Investor Moshe Hogeg has created the Alignment investment vehicle to invested purely in Israeli blockchain and crypto startups.
CrowdWiz
CrowdWiz, which is a fully decentralized crypto investment platform that lets users ditch third-party fund managers, recently began its ICO on November 20th. The company has already raised over $5 million in a public pre-sale, and plans to use the money to develop their investment platform. CrowdWiz relies on the so-called ‘wisdom of the crowd’ to make funding decisions. The CEO Slavena Savcheva claims that a collective entity makes a better decision as a whole than the most intelligent person in the group alone.
CrowdWiz allows the crowd, not fund managers, banks or middlemen, to decide on how the general fund is spent. Users of CrowdWiz will use the company’s cryptocurrency, the OPX token, to vote on which asset they want funds to go to. The platform then distributes based on the majority opinion of the crowd. CrowdWiz solves some of the issues associated with traditional funds today, such as high entrance costs and large fees. Savcheva wants to make the trading process fun, easy, and completely transparent using the wisdom of the crowd to decide where the money goes.
Prior to founding CrowdWiz, Savcheva was the Business Development Manager for TRADOLOGIC, one of the world’s leading FinTech software providers, where she operated and steered the firm’s business in Asian markets.
Orbs
Orbs sits under Cointree and is based on the “Spector” paper written by Hebrew university researchers. It takes the blockchain and turns it into a DAG, another database structure, so it can then process many more blocks in a second. The idea is that it puts the bottleneck at the communication layer not the not the consensus layer. Since the more forks in a blockchain the less secure and slower it become, Orbs claims to be able to process a transaction at whatever speed the network is.
Alignment
Alignment  came about because the VC firm Singulariteam partnered with two local Israeli firms, Blockchain IL and CoinTree Capital, to form a sort of blockchain and ICO consultancy which they dubbed “Alignment.” The company aims to groom and support the next blockchain unicorn coming out of Israel. The company consults, develops and funds Blockchain early-stage projects and existing companies, from inception through ICO, and later.
Startups will need to pay for the privilege, of course. Its listed clients to date include Bancor, messaging app Kik, and Stox. Of those, Bancor conducted a $153 million ICO, while Kik raised $98 million in its token sale earlier this year.
Since many people are skeptical of ICOs at the moment (especially in light of the Tezos controversy), Alignment supports blockchain companies, in a climate that’s at best lukewarm towards ICOs. Moshe Hogeg, VC, Founder & Chairman of the Singulariteam, pledged Alignment would “invest, without exception, in every Israeli blockchain company in 2017.”
Bancor
If you’ve been following the blockchain revolution, you’ve probably heard about Bancor. This company made history when it held one of the most successful ICO’s (at the time it was a world record), raising over $153 million from over 10,000 participants in less than three hours. Bancor has created a market maker application that aims to facilitate trading with other digital coins. The Bancor protocol enables built-in price-discovery and a liquidity mechanism for tokens on smart contract blockchains. Bancor’s claims it allows anyone to create their own cryptocurrency and operate it independent of a third-party exchange. The Bancor Protocol allows for the creation of thousands of cryptocurrencies on the Ethereum blockchain, creating a interconnected asset exchange ecosystem which unlocks the long tail of user-generated tokens. Smart tokens are designed with additional functionality such as “delegated account recovery” and “vaults” to address security issues. The aim of these features is to make cryptocurrencies more accessible and to encourage mass adoption.
Stox
You may have heard the news about Stox’s ethereum based prediction market platform when Floyd Mayweather boasted he would “make a $hit t$n of money … on the Stox.com ICO.”
Following Mayweather’s bullish words, Stox raised $33 million in an ICO last August. Stox claims users can predict and trade the outcome of events in almost any imaginable category: Finance, sports, politics and even the weather, as they might in a traditional stock market.
Unlike a lot of crypto companies which tailor their services to blockchain experts, the Stox platform is designed to accommodate, and be intuitive for mainstream audiences.
As you can see, Israel, and specifically Tel Aviv, is creating a huge force in this new world. If they play their cards right, they could well start to rival the co-called ‘Crypto Valley’ in Switzerland.


Lyft is seeking to raise an additional $500 million, over and above the $1 billion it raised in a round led by Alphabet venture arm CaptialG last month. The $500 million is an extension of that round, the company told Axios, and is not yet closed. But it should add to Lyft’s overall valuation once closed, bringing its post-many total to $11.5 billion.
The round extension would allow Lyft to put more money into its passenger and driver products, the company told Axios. It would also come at a crucial time for Lyft, since it’s set to expand into its first market outside the U.S. in December with a launch in Toronto and Hamilton in Canada.
Lyft has really pushed the accelerator on its growth this year, moving to cover 95 percent of the U.S. population with over 100 new market additions during 2017. It’s also touting a milestone of more than 500 million rides and counting, and expanding its autonomous technology testing program, with a recent permit acquired from the California DMV for testing on state roads.


Another neat addition to end-to-end encrypted email client ProtonMail: It’s added a zero-access encrypted contacts manager that also digitally signs the contact info you store in it.
The new features have been added to v3.12 of ProtonMail’s web client, with the Swiss-based startup saying it’s working on also bringing the feature to its Android and iOS apps.
In a blog post announcing the contacts manager, it says the feature is a security benefit especially to those with a strong need to keep sources confidential — such as journalists — although it’s worth noting that any email addresses stored in the contacts manager are not encrypted (so the added security layer only applies to phone numbers and addresses).
ProtonMail writes:
The addition of encrypted contact fields brings many security benefits. For example, if you are a journalist with a confidential source, it is very important to protect the phone number or address of that source. Using the notes field in contacts, you can also add other information about the contact that will be protected with zero-access encryption. In order to do email filtering, we do not use zero-access encryption for email addresses — doing so also does not significantly improve privacy because as an email service, we necessarily must know who you are emailing in order to deliver the message.
It adds that it’s digitally signing contacts to “verify the integrity of contacts data” — offering users a “cryptographic guarantee that nobody (not even ProtonMail) has tampered with your contacts”.
The new digital signatures are used for all contact fields, including email address, with signed (and thus untampered) contacts being denoted by a tick icon displayed alongside.
ProtonMail‘s zero access encrypted email service exited beta in March last year. The company offers both a free e2e encrypted email client, with limited storage and feature, and paid tiers that beef up available capacity and capabilities.
It tells TechCrunch the new digital signature verification for contacts is available for all users.
While the e2e encrypted contact fields feature is currently only available for paid users — although co-founder Andy Yen says “this may change in the future”.
“In our view, verifying the authenticity of contacts data is even more important than hiding contacts data which is why digital signature verification is available for everyone,” he adds.
The full implementation of both features can be examined by outsiders via ProtonMail’s source code, which it open sources.
The company is also trailing a number of additional security enhancements that it says will build on the new contacts manager — and are coming in 2018.
“For example, our new contacts manager can also be extended to store public keys, which is an essential component for both sending PGP messages to people who don’t use ProtonMail, verifying the integrity of the keys themselves, and verifying the authenticity of received messages via digital signatures,” it writes, adding: “We are working on these, and many other security enhancements, and look forward to sharing them with the ProtonMail community in the future.”
The pro-privacy startup reported a boost in sign ups for its email service a year ago, following the election of Donald Trump in the US.
Yen says ProtonMail has around five million users at this stage — across its email product and a VPN service it also now offers.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Last month, Twitter started work on a new “save for later” feature for Tweets in your timeline that you wanted to flag to refer back to in the future. Now it’s given the feature a name — it will be called Bookmarks — and is running tests with it.
The news was made public last night in a series of Tweets from Tina Koyama, a staff product designer at the company, who said that the company has picked out different versions of how Bookmarks will look and work and will now test them in the Twitter community.
Twitter declined to comment beyond the Tweets. “We’ll be sure to let you know if/when we have more details to share in terms of a formal announcement!” the spokesperson added.
Judging by what Twitter has been showing off so far, the bookmarking tool might appear in a menu in the bottom right corner of a Tweet on mobile, or in the v-drop-down menu in the upper-right corner on desktop. It will live alongside other further actions like sending a Tweet in a direct message to someone or creating a Moment (Twitter’s name for when you string together a series of existing Tweets around a subject).
If you have an eye for blurry detail, you may be able to make out more of the flow here:

Bookmarks that have been saved can then be accessed via your profile page, where you also access any Lists and Moments.

(Get in touch if you find you are a part of that test, and let us know if you’re seeing something else.)
Today, you can already use Twitter’s Heart as a way of notating Tweets that you might like to return to read again later.
But, actually, the main function of the heart is to notify the sender of the Tweet (and anyone else reading it) that you liked it. So the Bookmark will be useful in cases where you may want to keep that information to yourself.
“You told us that you want Tweets you’ve bookmarked to be private, so only you can see it,” Koyama writes. “We kept this in mind while creating designs for the feature.” While the Bookmarks will be saved privately, Twitter will give you the option for sharing them in a Tweet later, if you so choose.
And as we’ve mentioned before, there a number of other ways of saving Tweets for later reference, including sending yourself direct messages, retweeting so that they live in your profile’s timeline, opening them in other tabs, saving them to a note-taking app, using Instapaper and more.
But all of these are more steps, less private, and will never be as easy as simply hitting a button within the Tweet itself.
Having a bookmarking tool in Twitter is a useful feature, especially considering that timelines can move quickly. Short (or not so short) Tweets are often vessels for links, which you may not otherwise be able to track and remember.
Twitter, like a lot of other social media, is seen by many as a distraction, but this could be one little way to at least make it a little more productive. It’s also, in a way, table stakes for a social site: both Facebook and Pinterest let you save links and posts on its platform, and have done for a couple of years now.
Bookmarks comes at a time when Twitter has been working on a series of changes to help the basic platform expand beyond the limitations that were baked into it from the start.
They include two features aimed to trying to make it easier to fit more words (and more pontifications, jokes, stories and so on) into your Tweeting life. Twitter has doubled the number of characters that you can have in a tweet to 280 from 140, and it’s now running tests to let people create “tweetstorms” to string together several of their own Tweets into a thread.
At a time when the company is still grappling with how best to moderate the kind of content pushed through its platform — Twitter’s cheer for free speech abused with harassment, fake news passed as facts, among other problems — features like Bookmarks are aiming at another challenge: promoting more growth and engagement among its users.
(The two challenges actually go hand-in-hand, in my opinion. If you don’t nail the content problem, it won’t matter if Twitter is easier to use because it will devolve into a cesspool. If you don’t nail the user experience problem, it will limit the way not just bad but also good content will get consumed.)
As of last quarter, the company had 330 million monthly active users. That is up about four percent on a year ago but comes amid many quarters of flat or even declining growth. Adding in more features like Bookmarks will make Twitter more useful, and potentially more used — hopefully without bloating it too much in the process.

Featured Image: DragojaGagiTubic / iStock Editorial / Getty Images Plus


Tesla has managed to deliver something on time, even if it \’s falling behind its projections for the Model 3 electric car: It has completed production of a massive battery farm in South Australia, which is designed to capture and store energy produced by a wind farm and distribute it to the grid when it’s needed most, in an effort to curb frequent summer blackouts.
The Tesla battery facility can provide power to around 30,000 homes for over an hour when at full capacity, and it will be coming online within the next few days, with final testing underway to make sure the completed facility is ready to roll. The battery farm has a total capacity of 100 megawatts, which makes it the largest overall in the world.
The Wall Street Journal reports that while it’ll be offering backup power during its final testing phase over the next few weeks, it’s going to face its first significant stress tests beginning when Australian summer hits, between December and March. That’s when temperatures soar, and the energy system is taxed as residents crank up the AC and otherwise try to compensate for the blistering heat.
Tesla’s test with this facility isn’t just about dealing with the Australian summer, however – it’ll be a key proof point in helping prove out the long-term viability of renewable energy sources as a realistic total replacement for traditional, less environmentally friendly means of supplying the grid.

Featured Image: Mark Brake/Getty Images


Everyone loves drones, including companies with very specific needs. Drones once were the hot new thing and the perfect birthday gift. But drone makers are now realizing that there’s a bigger opportunity with commercial use cases, from farming to inspection. That’s why we’re excited to announce that three founders of three amazing companies in the drone industry will join us on stage at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin on December 4-5, 2017.
As we already announced, Henri Seydoux from Parrot is going to tell us about his company’s shift. Parrot has been a pioneer in the drone industry. The company took advantage of the accelerometers, gyroscopes, wireless chips and energy-efficient processors that you can find in smartphones to power tiny quadcopters.
But Parrot has also made multiple acquisitions for its commercial drone division. SenseFly, Airinov, MicaSense and Pix4D are now all owned by Parrot. The French company also owns multiple patents on drone technologies and sells integrated software and hardware solutions for firefighters, farmers and more.
Second, James Harrison from Sky-Futures has been building software solutions for drone inspections. The company first focused on the oil and gas industry. When you think about it, it’s so much easier to fly a drone around an offshore oil drilling platform to see if everything works fine.
Other industries also have a hard time keeping an eye on inaccessible sites. If you’re maintaining bridges, keeping an eye on wind turbines or overseeing construction sites, drones can be much cheaper than human inspection. Sky-Futures lets you record, log and share all your observations.
Finally, Clément Christomanos from Uavia has been working on remote aerial inspection. If you’ve ever played with a drone, you know that they have limited battery life and that you need to stay in range.
Uavia thinks this can be an issue if you need to inspect multiple sites around the country. You either need to train people on the ground or send drone pilots. With Uavia, you can control a drone thousands of miles away from your web browser.
Drones receive instructions from traditional cell towers and then go back to charging stations when they’re done. This can replace or supplement surveillance cameras in sensitive areas.
All those use cases are just the tip of the iceberg. Goldman Sachs recently shared a report on commercial drones. There are more than a dozen industries that could greatly benefit from using drones.
Get your Disrupt tickets right now to see the founders of Parrot, Sky-Futures and Uavia tell you everything about the future of drones. You’ll also see the Startup Battlefield competition, in which a handful of startups pitch our judges with the hopes of winning the coveted Disrupt Cup and a cash prize.
You’ll get to chat with plenty of promising startups in Startup Alley, see amazing talks on the main stage, and unwind after a long day at the show with a cocktail and some new friends at the Disrupt after party.
Do you run a startup? The Startup Alley Exhibitor Package is your best bet to get the greatest exposure by exhibiting your company or product directly on the Disrupt Berlin show floor.


The FTC has now put out a statement regarding the Uber data breach which the company concealed for the best part of a year before finally disclosing it, under new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, on Tuesday by passing details to Bloomberg.
Late yesterday a spokesperson for the federal agency told Reuters: “We are aware of press reports describing a breach in late 2016 at Uber and Uber officials’ actions after that breach. We are closely evaluating the serious issues raised.”
In October 2016 hackers had stolen personal data from 57 million Uber users and drivers, it revealed, including the names, email addresses and phone numbers of 50M Uber riders around the world, and personal information of about 7M drivers — including around 600,000 US driver’s license numbers.
The FTC’s statement is significant because Uber only settled a prior investigation into security and privacy complaints dating back to 2014 and 2015 and carried out by the agency this summer, when it agreed to 20 years of external audits and to abide by various conditions in the consent order.
The security breach the FTC was looking into then was far smaller than the freshly disclosed 2016 breach — with personal data of around 100,000 Uber drivers’ accessed during the May 2014 breach.
Although the attack vector used in both attacks is essentially the same: In 2014 an intruder gained access to an Amazon S3 Datastore Uber was using (and storing data in plain text) after one of its engineers had publicly posted the key to GitHub.
While in 2016 attackers were also able to access a private GitHub coding site used by Uber software engineers to grab login credentials and use those to access data stored on an Amazon Web Services account — where they unearthed an archive of rider and driver data.
The fact Uber allowed not one but two attacks to happen, spaced years apart, because engineers put access keys in a publicly accessible location suggests security was hardly being considered — let alone prioritized.
The FTC consent order settling the 2014 and 2015 complaints prohibited Uber from misrepresenting how it protects the privacy, confidentiality, security, or integrity of any personal information it handles and stores.
Yet almost immediately Uber signed the order it would likely have been in violation of the agreement — having still not disclosed (to the FTC, or to anyone outside the company) the much larger 2016 breach. And violations of FTC consent orders can result in civil penalties being issued.
“It appears they violated the FTC consent order before the ink was dry on it,” a former federal cybercrimes prosecutor now at the Ballard Spahr firm, Ed McAndrew, told CNET.
We’ve reached out to the FTC to ask whether it believes Uber has breached the prior consent order and also if it intends to open a formal investigation into the 2016 breach, and will update this story with any response.
In addition, while the US does not currently have a federal law requiring companies to inform the public about data breaches, the vast majority of states have enacted breach notification statutes of their own — which are typically a lot stricter than a full year’s time for disclosure.
So Uber is likely to have breached state laws by concealing the breach for so long.
Some of the breached data is also from markets outside the US. And regulators in other markets can be stricter. In the European Union, for example, a new law incoming in May 2018 will bring in a single breach notification standard across all 28 EU Member States that will require data controllers to inform regulators that personal data has been breached within 72 hours of becoming aware of an intrusion.
And while that law has not come in to force, expectations around breach disclosures are being reset to meet the new standard across the EU.
Yesterday, for example, the UK’s data watchdog said the concealed Uber data breach “raises huge concerns”, as well as warning that companies which deliberately conceal breaches from regulators can attract higher fines.

Featured Image: TechCrunch


In another example of Starling Bank jumping on the Open Banking/PSD2 train before legislation in the U.K. and Europe next year will force banks to do so, it is launching its latest API partnership: this time with Yoyo Wallet, the U.K.-based mobile payment and loyalty platform.
The new integration sees Yoyo use Starling’s Open Banking-compliant API to let you link your Starling bank account to your Yoyo Wallet so that whenever you pay at one of Yoyo’s retail partners using your Starling Bank card, you automatically collect any loyalty points on offer. This means that you don’t have to remember to pay using the Yoyo app (or, presumably, a retailer’s white labelled version), which otherwise requires opening the app and scanning a bar code.
Here’s how it works: To begin linking your Starling account to your Yoyo account, you open the Yoyo app and are asked to scan your Starling card using your phone’s camera, like you ordinarily do to add any card as a payment option to Yoyo Wallet. However, in this instance, Yoyo will recognise you bank with Starling and ask to you to authenticate with Starling and grant it permission to access certain data from your Starling account.
Once you’ve done so, any time you use your Starling card at Yoyo-accepting high street merchants, you instantly earn retailer-specific loyalty points, which can be exchanged for rewards, discounts and offers. Yoyo’s retailer partnerships include high street chains such as Planet Organic, Fernandez & Wells, Wrap It Up and HOP Vietnamese.
More broadly, this speaks to Starling Bank’s “marketplace banking” vision: the idea that your bank will provide you with access to a choice of third-party money-related apps and services. However, for now at least, Yoyo is simply making use of the Starling API and the partnership doesn’t see Yoyo Wallet listed in the Starling Marketplace portion of the Starling Bank app (although I’m told this is coming) and Yoyo Wallet’s item level receipt data doesn’t show up in the Starling Bank app, either.
This makes it a much less deep integration than Starling’s recent partnership with Flux, which also offers item level digital receipts and soon retail loyalty programs. That could change, of course, and I wouldn’t be surprised to see Yoyo more deeply integrate with Starling at a future date. After all, Starling’s marketplace banking strategy is to partner far and wide to create a network effect on both sides of its market where the app becomes more useful the more users and partners/integrations it adds.
Along with Flux, and now Yoyo Wallet, it has also integrated to varying degrees with offers platform Tail and savings app Moneybox. Meanwhile, a partnership with TransferWise was announced in March but has yet to see the light of day.


Portea Medical founder and CEO Meena Ganesh
Portea Medical, one of India’s biggest platforms for home healthcare visits, has raised $26 million in Series C funding to expand its service range. The round was led by Sabre Partners and MEMG CDC, with participation from returning investors Accel (which led Portea’s Series B two years ago), the World Bank Group’s International Finance Corporation and Qualcomm Ventures.
Portea has now raised a total of about $72.5 million. In a press statement, Sabre Partners founder and managing partner Rajiv Maliwal said Portea Medical “has played a key role in establishing the concept of consumer-led healthcare and we look forward to working with them as they continue to transform healthcare services in India beyond the hospital space.”
The demand for home healthcare is growing quickly in India, thanks to factors like an aging population and social changes that means fewer working-age adults are able to serve as full-time caretakers for elderly relatives. Some of Portea Medical’s main competitors include Nightingales Home Health Services, Healthcare At Home and Care24.
One of Portea’s specialities is an eldercare plan that is billed annually, since assisted living communities are a relatively new concept in India. Since its launch, it’s expanded its core offerings into three other segments: primary care, chronic disease management and post-operative care.
Portea partners with healthcare providers, including 50 hospitals, to enable home visits for patients who might have trouble traveling for checkups, like the elderly or physically disabled, or just want to avoid overcrowded hospitals. Its other products include lab tests where samples are taken at home and picked up by one of Portea’s couriers and B2B services for companies that want to provide employees with on-site vaccination programs or health screenings. Portea claims that it has served 250,000 customers in 16 cities so far.


Today’s Stories

Uber’s big data breach
Facebook to single out election trolls
Apple’s self-driving car research
FCC issues final draft of plan to kill net neutrality 

Credits
Written by: Brian HeaterHosted by: Brian HeaterFilmed by: Veanne CaoEdited by: John Murillo

Notes:

That’s it for this week. And for me. Tito’s back on Monday. A very Happy Thanksgiving to everyone attempting to explain net neutrality and bitcoin to their loved ones this holiday.


Ahead of Amazon’s big AWS division Re:invent conference next week, the company has announced two developments in the area of artificial intelligence. AWS is opening a machine learning lab, ML Solutions Lab, to pair Amazon machine learning experts with customers looking to build solutions using the AI tech. And it’s releasing new features within Amazon Rekognition, Amazon’s deep learning-based image recognition platform: real-time face recognition and the ability to recognize text in images.
The new lab and the enhancements to its image recognition platform underscore the push that Amazon and AWS are giving to AI at the company, both internally and as a potential area to grow its B2B business in this area. They come about a month after AWS announced it would be collaborating with Microsoft on Gluon, a deep learning interface designed for developers to build and run machine learning models for their apps and other services.
The fact that these two announcements were made today, a day before Thanksgiving, makes me wonder if AWS is laying groundwork for more AI news at Re:invent, or if they are indicating that this will not be a focus as it has been in previous years. It was last year that Amazon used Re:invent to announce Amazon AI, which is the division that will oversee the solutions lab.
The ML Solutions Lab — which Amazon said is available to any AWS Business Support customer — is an interesting development because it points to Amazon ramping up not just in AI, but in business consultancy, which is a key cornerstone of providing IT services to corporate customers at companies like IBM.
“We can’t wait for developers to start their journeys into machine learning with the Amazon ML Solutions Lab,” said Swami Sivasubramanian, vice president of Amazon AI, in a statement. “By combining the expertise of the best machine learning scientists and practitioners at Amazon with the deep business knowledge of our customers, the Amazon ML Solutions Lab will help customers get up to speed on machine learning quickly, and start putting machine learning to work inside their organizations.”
Early customers will include The Washington Post, Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical division Janssen and the World Bank Group.
The new Rekognition features, meanwhile, point not only to how Amazon continues to make major advances in computer vision, but its strong commitment to monetizing them by turning them into products for external customers.
Notably, one of the bigger customers using the new Rekognition features is Pinterest, which is interesting when you consider that image-related functions like search and classification are some of the company’s core features. Pinterest tells me the vast majority of their visual search tech is developed in-house; this Rekognition usage is part of smaller project.
“We’re in the early stages of exploring Rekognition with Amazon to scale a subset of Pins in AWS S3, but continue to have a visual discovery team dedicated to building and scaling technologies within Pinterest,” a spokesperson said.
Pinterest has been an AWS customer for years, with millions of Pins currently stored in an Amazon S3 cloud, so it makes sense that if Amazon has developed a new way to identify text in those images, it’s a logical choice to use it.
“As a visually-driven platform, Pinterest relies heavily on the speed and quality of images, but the text behind those images is just as important, as it provides context and makes Pins actionable for our 200M+ active Pinners,” said Vanja Josifovski, CTO, Pinterest. “In working with Amazon Rekognition Text in Image, we can better extract the rich text captured in images at scale and with low latency for the millions of Pins stored in Amazon S3. We look forward to continuing to develop the partnership with AWS for high quality and fast experiences for Pinners and businesses on Pinterest.”
Updated with more comment from Pinterest.

Featured Image: Getty Images


YouTube, that strange stew of the best and worst content on the web, is cracking down on abuse and error relating to kid-focused video. Jokers and questionably ethical creators who targeted kids or used them in their videos will have a harder time getting viewers and getting money.
The tendency of kids to watch a series of algorithmically suggested videos led some YouTubers to attempt to slip their content into the designated kid-friendly streams. Putting Peppa Pig in their video, for example, to get it recognized as featuring that friendly critter, then having Peppa Pig visit a slaughterhouse or something. Funny if you’re a bored teen, but not if you’re YouTube’s ad department.
Content with kids in it but not for kids has also been a problem. I don’t know why 150 million people want to watch a little girl cry through a blood-filled mouth for two minutes, and I don’t want to know. But it’s probably not the kind of thing you want queued up for the little ones.
In order to combat this “growing trend,” Google is battening down the hatches around kid-friendly content in a handful of ways:


Stricter content control. Now on warning: “content featuring minors that may be endangering a child, even if that was not the uploader’s intent” (that would be the mouthful of blood people) and “content with family entertainment characters but containing mature themes or adult humor.”




Demonetizing shady kid stuff. Peppa Pig goes to the ham factory won’t be getting any ad dollars.

Aggressive comment patrol on videos of kids. The comment section of YouTube is, to borrow Penny Arcade’s phrase, “like if the bottom of the barrel had its own barrel, with another bottom altogether, that then dripped on an ocean of diseased rats which then leapt into a rank sewer.” Videos found to have inappropriate (“abhorrent”) comments about the kids in them will have comments turned off altogether.

Better understanding context. Rick & Morty may be a cartoon, but you probably don’t want your 7-year-old watching it. Similarly, a sexy cosplay of Dora the Explorer (why?) doesn’t really qualify as educational content. So YouTube is “growing the number of experts we work with, and doubling the number of Trusted Flaggers we partner with in this area” to better track this kind of thing.

Hopefully that prevents a few parents from having to answer awkward questions about butchering methods or why a banana would need a hammock.


David Golden
Contributor


David Golden is a managing partner at Revolution Ventures. 


Every few years efforts to redefine the IPO emerge, and as night follows day, investors get hurt and calls for tighter regulatory reform echo in legislative chambers and cable TV studios. The last significant “re-invention” emerged in the height of the dot-com boom when online brokers started selling newly issued shares directly to retail customers. We all know how that ended.
Flash forward one generation: a newly formed company called Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings recently sold $600 million of stock to a trusting public and heralded their achievement, which it trademarked no less, as “IPO 2.0.” Their pitch is that young companies — even the current class of “unicorns” valued over $1 billion — have a very difficult time going public. Instead, the argument goes, it is easier for them to become public by merging into an entity that is already public and, voila, the young company has become a public company without the headache of actually engaging in an IPO. Perhaps a better moniker would have been “IPO 2.0-No.”
Social Capital Hedosophia is a “blank-check company.” That is, a corporation that has no specific business plan or purpose — other than to find a business and acquire it. Given the press around the offering (and the “2.0” branding), one would have thought there was actually something new here. Hardly.
Blank-check companies have been around for decades. They have been called “clean shell companies,” “blind pools,” “public shells” and, since the 1990s, the somewhat classier “special purpose acquisition companies” — SPACs. The basic model has remained the same: investors advance cash to the sponsors of the blind pool who look for something for the public shell company to acquire.
There are some modest protections for the investor. The funds are put in an escrow account, the target has to be valued at least 80 percent of the cash in the SPAC and the acquisition has to be completed within two years or the money is returned to the investors. Beyond that, there are not really any substantive limitations on what the SPAC can acquire. One might reasonably speculate that target acquisitions that do not look very attractive in month one start to look much better by month 24, as no sponsor wants to actually return the cash to the investors.
But the proponents of SPACs as an antidote to the IPO famine have it backwards: Historically, SPACs have been the avenue of last resort for companies that want to go public but can’t — either because underwriters won’t take them public or the public markets won’t embrace them.
Indeed, the relative scarcity of IPOs over the past several years has much less to do with the hassle of going public than it does with the (larger) hassle of actually being public. Many unicorns could go public today if they wanted to; indeed, I know many Wall Street bankers that are calling on them regularly to pitch the idea. But being public is a hassle and it is expensive: quarterly financial reports, daily gyrations of the share price, meetings with Wall Street analysts and public investors and greater legal liability for misstatements to the public.
Moreover, the private equity markets — both here and abroad — have been only too willing to finance many of these companies — often at valuations greater than the public markets would afford — so there has been no need to go public.
If you are not ready to be a public company, merging with a SPAC won’t make you ready.
 
In that sense, the SPAC is a solution looking for a problem. And, as it caters to those companies who can’t go public the conventional way, there is a tremendous adverse selection problem for the targets and an economic problem for the investors. For the target companies, an inability to go public “the regular way” is meaningful, and if you ignore the market when the market is speaking, you do so at your own peril.
As a conduit for weaker public companies, SPACs have an unparalleled record: they consistently underperform the broader equity markets and there is scholarly research that proves it (since 2003 SPACs have returned, on average, a negative 19.7 percent). That shouldn’t be surprising, because the quality of the acquired businesses — by definition — is lower than those that have been vetted by underwriters and the market. Historically, the companies that SPACs acquire make lousy public market investments, and that is because those companies are not mature enough for the pubic markets, and the public markets make lousy venture capitalists.
And if a company is ready for the public markets, there are substantial advantages to going public “the regular way.” First, a company in a traditional IPO gets to select its investors; the SPAC has already done that, and they may not be the supportive investors the company would prefer.
Then there is the process itself. The sponsors of Hedosophia would have us believe that merging with a SPAC is easier than filing for an IPO, but that simply is not true. As with an IPO, the merger with a SPAC requires all of the same business preparation, due diligence, prospectus-drafting, SEC engagement and regulatory oversight; even the paperwork is substantially similar (only it is called a merger proxy statement instead of an IPO prospectus).
After the acquisition, of course, the target is a public company, subject to the same hassles as any company that went public via a traditional IPO. But the biggest advantage to the traditional IPO over the SPAC is cost.
And therein lies the real motivation behind IPO 2.0. In the Hedosophia prospectus, under the innocuous caption “Founder Shares,” we learn that the sponsors of the SPAC have granted themselves 20 percent of the equity of the company. At the time of the deal, that was worth $120 million. You read that correctly. For the investors who capitalized the SPAC, that is a pretty substantial haircut to net asset value, and for a target company seeking a route to the public markets and for the investors who bank-rolled it, the SPAC sponsors will charge it a nine-figure toll to get there. In that context, the traditional investment banking fee of 5-7 percent of proceeds raised looks like quite a bargain.
So we are back to the adverse selection problem: Even if it cannot go public the traditional way, what target company is willing to take a $120 million discount on its fair market value to swap into a public shell? It should come as no surprise that the same scholarly work that showed the typical returns for SPAC investors to be a negative annual return of 3 percent also showed that the typical returns to SPAC sponsors were a positive 1,900 percent.
The conflict-of-interest is palpable: One might reasonably speculate that target acquisitions that do not look very attractive in month one start to look much better by month 18, as no sponsor wants to actually return the cash to investors and forgo the substantial value of the “founder shares.”
Companies in merger discussions with SPACs should tread carefully. If being public is the goal and the business is not substantial enough to pursue an IPO in the traditional fashion, the SPAC is an alternative, albeit a difficult one. If you are not ready to be a public company, merging with a SPAC won’t make you ready. And the discount to your fair market value that you will have to suffer will be substantial.

Featured Image: champc/Getty Images


Every year, Apple airs a new ad in the U.S. for Thanksgiving. Compared to other Apple ads, this is less about showing product features and more like a greeting card.
This year is no different — you still see a lot of AirPods. Apple’s new ad is called “Sway” and takes place in the streets of Prague. A woman starts playing Sam Smith’s “Palace” on her white iPhone X with her AirPods.
She then ends up in an alternate reality where she can dance around people without getting noticed. She bumps into a man, hands him an AirPod and starts dancing with him under the snow.
Fun fact: these two dancers are married in real life.


Business Insider recently reported that numerous families have grown frustrated with the education their children are receiving at AltSchool, an ambitious San Francisco-based edtech company that four years ago began opening physical grade schools and promising a personalized learning approach that would far surpass the standardized education most kids receive.
It’s not just parents who have growing concerns about AltSchool, however. Educators also question whether AltSchool is the next best thing in education, or whether instead the for-profit company could hamper the prospects of the children with whom it works, and those it might impact down the road.
Seemingly, exasperation with AltSchool has been building over the last year. It was then that the company — which had originally touted plans to expand its network of schools and classrooms —  publicly switched gears, announcing it would instead license its nascent program to other schools that want to embrace more individualized techniques.
Frustration has more recently reached a boiling point, with one mother comparing her children to “guinea pigs” in conversation with BI.
The term echoes conversations that we’ve also had with a handful of AltSchool families in recent months. At a September birthday party attended by numerous parents, one mother told us she’d pulled two children out of the program and placed them in a neighborhood public school; the rest of the parents in attendance said they were actively working to place their children elsewhere next fall. The biggest reason they cited was that their kids are falling behind academically. One mother, who asked not to be named, told us that in addition to paying yearly tuition of roughly $30,000, “We’re all spending a fortune on tutoring to supplement what our kids aren’t learning.”
Another mother of two at AltSchool told us she spoke recently to the head master of one of San Francisco’s toniest private schools, and he suggested to her that she transfer her children elsewhere if she hopes to see them admitted to the institution he oversees.
You got the right to be mad
Compounding their anger these days is AltSchool’s more recent revelation that its existing network of schools, which had grown to seven locations, is now being pared back to just four — two in California and two in New York. The move has left parents to wonder: did AltSchool entice families into its program merely to extract data from their children, then toss them aside?
Asked about such unhappiness, Max Ventilla, the former Google executive who founded and runs the company, tells us the decision to shrink AltSchool’s physical footprint can be traced to “greater demand than we were expecting” for AltSchool’s software — which it has already licensed to half a dozen private and public school systems, and for which it’s charging between $150 and $500 per student per year, depending on the size of the school.
“Our motivation for reducing the number of schools is so we can deliver the highest-quality experiences at schools that remain and with our limited resources, grow [the software side of AltSchool’s business] faster than originally planned,” says Ventilla.
He adds that the decision to close locations in Palo Alto, San Francisco’s Dogpatch neighborhood and New York City’s East Village has nothing to do with the company’s finances, as recently reported in Bloomberg. On the contrary he says, AltSchool is about to close its Series C round. It also has “$60 million in the bank and additional debt and funding we can draw on.”
Still, it’s probably valid to ask whether AltSchool should be productizing and selling its software to other schools already. Right now, both insiders and outsiders suggest it’s too soon.
Jennifer Carolan is a co-founder and general partner at Reach Capital, a venture fund focused on early-stage education technology start-ups. She notes that from the outset, AltSchool marketed the kind of personalized approach to education that parents are hungry for and that builds on a decades-long trend away from one-size-fits-all schooling to schooling that’s more tailored to the needs of individual children.
Nevertheless, she says, personalized learning is “extremely challenging to implement well.”  Indeed, while Carolan spent time at AltSchool when it was getting off the ground and concluded it had many innovative ideas, she worried that the availability of too much capital to the company while it was still iterating on its model may have led it to “scale prematurely.”
Reach chose not to invest. Other investors have dived in. AltSchool has so far raised $175 million, including from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and prominent venture firms, including Founders Fund and Andreessen Horowitz.
They say you gotta let it go
Paul France, an enthusiastic young educator who spent four years as a public school teacher before spending the next three years at AltSchool, understands well the school’s appeal. He also has concerns, however, particularly about the brand of personalized learning that AltSchool, and other newer schools, are promoting. “When I first arrived at AltSchool, we were opening new schools. There were lots of cool people to talk with and very cool ideals floating around.” He thought the “whole premise of personalized learning was very intriguing.”
Three years later, France says, he came to feel drastically different about the approach. “We live in this individualistic society that values personalized learning right now, almost to a fault. It’s ‘me, me, me.’ But it’s not a solution to any real problem in education.” In fact, says France, who now teaches in Chicago, AltSchool and its ilk may be unwittingly hamstringing both students and teachers by both creating too much individualized content for students (“that’s not how social systems or jobs work,” he notes), as well as unduly burdening teachers who are sometimes given unreal expectations to meet.
“There’s this assumption that every kid needs a different activity to meet their needs, and that by applying tech, one can simply send them individualized content through a video or activity card,” France says. “But that’s not necessarily true. It’s not best for kids to learn only through a video or other content that’s sent primarily for consumption. And tech that operates under this assumption really undermines educators and the value of good teaching.”
Ventilla readily acknowledges that AltSchool has had to rethink its approach to education.  When Altschool started out, he says, it was premised on being “operationally focused, focused on facilities, ensuring great teachers were hired, and dealing with admissions, customer support and service as problems arose, but not engaging in pedagogic experience. We weren’t focusing on how students and teachers engage. We figured instead that students would be well served if we got out of the way.”
What AltSchool learned is “that wasn’t the case,” he continues. “If we want the experience to be student-centered, the teachers and students and heads of schools need more support within the four walls of the classroom.”
Now tell ’em
Ventilla insists that AltSchool — which currently employs 180 people, including educators, technologists and business operations staff — has since worked out many of its kinks and seen a “massive improvement  in satisfaction of parents overall and progress that students are making with both academic and non-academic standards.”
Of the 30 children who graduated from AltSchool last year, says Ventilla, every one was accepted into his or her first- or second-choice school. He further adds that 92 percent of families who’ve responded to questions about their experience at AltSchool say they are satisfied with it, up from 85 percent last year.
Two Bay Area families to which we were pointed underscore this sentiment. Sharon Grehan, an executive at Gilead Sciences, has a second-grader enrolled at AltSchool, and though she’ll need to move him to a different location next fall because his particular school is closing, she says her intention is to stay with the organization.
“The social-emotional component is just as important, if not more important, than the academic component at AltSchool, and that’s important to me,” says Grehan of her attraction to the school. “Before joining AltSchool three years ago, my son wouldn’t participate in a group, he wouldn’t interact with peers, he felt bad about himself. Now he loves life, he loves school and he has lots of friends. The personalized education piece is very key for him.”
Grehan says she did have concerns last year when she was receiving status reports from her son’s teachers at 11 p.m. at night. “I was worried about teacher burnout,” she says. But she says such posts, which get pushed to parents through an app called Stream, are fewer and farther between and now mostly include “updates on field trips, social events and, periodically, things they want to communicate to me about my son specifically, like about a fear that he has overcome, or something funny he did that they are tickled by.”
Another mother, Sandya Mysoor, who teaches bullying prevention and has daughters in second and fifth grade at the school, says she is similarly committed to staying at AltSchool for the duration. “We knew we were rolling the dice” by signing up for a brand-new school, she says. “I didn’t know what would happen, but it was, ‘Let’s see how this goes.’ ”
There have been “tons of changes since,” says Mysoor. She hasn’t been surprised by this, though. “I’d say the changes they’ve made are typical and play on the same track as any startup” that’s always iterating to improve its offering. “No school has gotten it exactly right, but our experience is [AltSchool is] trying harder and deeper than other schools.”
Hopefully, the parents will feel as enthusiastic about the school as their children age, assuming the schools remain open. Ventilla, whose daughter currently attends AltSchool, says they will. “I’m applying for our four-year-old son,” he says, “and my expectation is this will be the school he graduates from — maybe even from high school down the line.”
What if there is no AltSchool high school? With the distinct possibility in mind, we reach out to the head of the private high school who we’d been told was less than enthusiastic about AltSchool. We ask if it’s true that he has concerns about AltSchool graduates. He clarifies his comments, saying that his school “looks at the background of applicants on a student-by-student basis,” but he adds that “some” might have concerns about its curriculum.
“Schools are hard,” adds this person, who asked not to be named. “Trying to develop good schools and good software are different enterprises. It may be hard to do both.”


French startup Snips is now helping you build a custom voice assistant for your device. Snips doesn’t use Amazon’s Alexa Voice Service or Google Assistant SDK — the company is building its own voice assistant so that you can embed it on your devices. And the best part is that it doesn’t send anything to the cloud as it works offline.
If you want to understand how a voice assistant works, you can split it into multiple parts. First, it starts with a wakeword. Snips has a handful of wakewords by default, such as “Hey Snips,” but you can also pay the company to create your own wakeword.
For instance, if you’re building a multimedia robot called Keecker, you can create a custom “Hey Keecker” hot word. Snips then uses deep learning to accurately detect when someone is trying to talk to your voice assistant.
The second part is automatic speech recognition. A voice assistant transcribes your voice into a text query. Popular home assistants usually send a small audio file with your voice and use servers to transcribe your query.
Snips can transcribe your voice into text on the device itself. It works on anything that is more powerful than a Raspberry Pi. For now, Snips is limited to English and French. You’ll have to use a third-party automatic speech recognition API for other languages.
Then, Snips needs to understand your query. The company has developed natural language capabilities. But there are hundreds, or even thousands of different ways to ask a simple question about the weather for instance.
That’s why Snips is launching a data generation service today. I saw a demo yesterday, and the interface looks like Automator on macOS or Workflow on iOS. You define some variables, such as “date” and “location”, you define if they are mandatory for the query and you enter a few examples.
But instead of manually entering hundreds of variations of the same query, you can pay $100 to $800 to let Snips do the work for you. The startup manually checks your request then posts it on Amazon Mechanical Turk and other crowdsourcing marketplaces. Finally, Snips cleans up your data set and sends it back to you.
You can either download it and reuse it in another chatbot or voice assistant, or you can use it with Snips’ own voice assistant. You can also make your capability public. Other Snips users can add this capability to their own assistant by browsing a repository of pre-trained capabilities.



Step 1. Create Intent




Step 2. Choose datagen package




Step 3. Confirm results








A Snips voice assistant typically requires hundreds of megabytes but is quite easy to update. After installing the Snips app on your device, you just need to replace a zip library file to add new capabilities.
You also need to implement the actual actions. Snips only translates what someone is saying into a parsable query. For instance, Snips can understand that “could you please turn on the bedroom light?” means “light + bedroom + on.” A developer still needs to implement the action based on those three parameters.
Developers are already playing with Snips to test its capabilities. But the company hopes that big device manufacturers are going to embed Snips into their future products. Eventually, you could think about a coffee maker with a Snips voice assistant.
Compared to Amazon’s or Google’s wide-ranging assistants, Snips thinks that you don’t need to embed a complete voice assistant into all your devices. You only want to tell your Roomba to start vacuuming — no need to let you start a Spotify playlist from your vacuum cleaner.
This approach presents a few advantages when it comes to privacy and network effects. Big tech companies are creating ecosystem of internet-of-things devices. People are buying lightbulbs, security cameras and door locks that work with the Amazon Echo for instance.
But if you can talk to the devices themselves, you don’t need to hook up your devices with a central home speaker — the central hub disappears. If voice assistants are more than a fad, Snips is building some promising technology. And Snips could get some licensing revenue for each device that comes with its voice assistant.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


On December 14, the FCC will vote on whether or not to roll back Obama-era policies protecting a free and open internet. In fact, during yesterday’s announcement of the upcoming vote, the FCC neglected to mention the historic 22 million comments on the issue, the majority of which were opposed to its rollback.
In response, protests are being held on December 7 at Verizon retail stores across the country. The protests were organized by Demand Progress, Fight For The Future, and FreePress Action Fund.
Here’s what the protest organizers have to say on their event page:
Ajit Pai is clearly still working for Verizon, not the public. But he still has to answer to Congress. So we’re calling on our lawmakers to do their job overseeing the FCC and speak out against Ajit Pai’s plan to gut Title II net neutrality protections and give Verizon and other giant ISPs everything on their holiday wishlist.
If you need a quick refresher on Net Neutrality, check out John Oliver’s explainer below or go in-depth with this post from TechCrunch writer Devin Coldewey.

The long story short on Net Neutrality is that it protects consumers and the internet from ISPs who might want to create internet ‘fast lanes’ for content or websites that they prefer or that pay them more.
So why protest at Verizon stores?
FCC Chairman Ajit Pai used to work for Verizon as associate general counsel before landing at the Federal Communications Commission. Verizon has also been a staunch opponent to Net Neutrality, lobbying for a roll-back and spending millions in lawsuits to ditch Title II.
Editor’s Notes: Verizon is the parent company of Oath, which is the parent company to TechCrunch.


The FCC yesterday announced a December 14 vote on “Restoring Internet Freedom,” an order that, far from restoring freedom to the internet, which is already free, would allow it to be restricted in new and harmful ways. Actually, when you think of it as restoring internet freedom to ISPs and cable companies, it makes a lot more sense. At any rate the Commission has released the text of the order ahead of the vote, as promised.
It was just put out half an hour ago and it’s about 200 pages long, so it’ll take some time for me and others to sift through it and find out what kind of changes have been made since the draft circulated in late summer.
Although an FCC representative yesterday said that “we addressed all the serious comments,” that can’t quite be true, since the core of the order is still intact: remove broadband’s telecommunications designation, removing the statutory authority for the 2015 rules (Title II of the Communications Act), and returning to a “light touch” regulatory framework under which ISPs will be permitted within reason to throttle and prioritize traffic. Lots of other little presents for the telecoms in there, too.
There will be some new information in this revised draft, however: the wording of its highly questionable definition of broadband as an information service could figure into its legal future, for instance, as would any indication of plans to preempt state regulations, which those states may not agree with.
Any substantive changes will be documented in a future article after we’ve had a change to look over the full text and confer with experts.


Facebook is building out a tool to show which Facebook Pages or Instagram accounts associated with Russia’s Internet Research Agency election troll farm you Liked or followed. Launching by the end of the year as part of the Facebook Help Center, the tool will show a list of all the IRA accounts you followed.
The IRA is a group based in St. Petersburg, Russia with ties to the Kremlin. It’s been exposed as an office organizing purposeful disinformation campaigns to disrupt the 2016 U.S. presidential election by sowing division in the country. Facebook is now on a mission to thwart future election meddling, and be as transparent as possible about previous election interference.

However, this tool will not show whether you saw ads or organic posts from the Russian troll accounts. That’s important, because paid reach and reshared posts by other users are how many of the 146 million Facebook and Instagram users encountered election interference content. Facebook has said 29 million Americans saw Russian troll content directly shared to their feeds, but 126 million total saw posts including reshares, with 10 million seeing ads. Twenty million Americans saw a combination of Russian troll ads and direct posts on Instagram.
Providing a list of all the individual Russian interference posts a user saw or interacted with could be more useful. At the very least, this new tool could list accounts whose content users saw or clicked, even if they didn’t follow the account that created it. But Facebook has contended it would be technically difficult to dredge up all that information. During the Senate hearing on election interference, Facebook general counsel Colin Stretch said “It’s a much more challenging issue to identify and notify reliably people who may have been exposed to this content on an individual basis.”
Congress gave Facebook, Google and Twitter until today to detail plans for improved transparency around election interference, so we’ll see if Google and Twitter come out with their own disclosures.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Apple has a new paper published in Cornell’s arXiv open directory of scientific research, describing a method for using machine learning to translate the raw point cloud data gathered by LiDAR arrays into results that include detection of 3D objects, including bicycles and pedestrians, with no additional sensor data required.
The paper is one of the clearest looks yet we’ve had at Apple’s work on self-driving technology. We know Apple’s working on this because it’s had to admit as much in order to secure a self-driving test permit from the California Department of Motor Vehicles, and because its test car has been spotted in and around time.
At the same time, Apple has been opening up a bit more about its machine learning efforts, publishing papers to its own blog highlighting its research, and now also sharing with the broader research community. This kind of publication practice is often a key ingredient for top talent in the field, who hope to work with the broader community to advance ML tech in general.
This specific picture describes how Apple researchers, including paper authors Yin Zhou and Oncel Tuzel, created something called VoxelNet that can extrapolate and infer objects from a collection of points captured by a LiDAR array. Essentially, LiDAR works by creating a high-resolution map of individual points by emitting lasers at its surrounding and registering the reflected results.
The research is interesting because it could allow LiDAR to act much more effectively on its own in self-driving systems. Typically, the LiDAR sensor data is paired or ‘fused’ with info from optical cameras, radar and other sensors to create a complete picture and perform object detection; using LiDAR alone with a high degree of confidence could lead to future production and computing efficiencies in actual self-driving cars on the road.


When you go through a big life event — say a milestone birthday for a parent or a wedding — there are probably going to be a lot of mini-events that happen before and after the big one. But you might not think to hire a professional photographer for them and stick with a couple phone cameras because it can be tough to find those photographers.
So Minted, a company that’s been around for quite a while and traditionally known for cards and stationery, is now launching a service to streamline that process and make it easy to summon a skilled photographer to document events like those. Though the process might be tied closely with, say, family portraits, it’s pretty easy to see how getting a photographer quickly ahead of a life event that there’s a good chance has a higher level of skill than you with your iPhone could convince people to pull out their wallets.
Minted users can pay around $100 to book a 30-minute session with a photographer on Minted’s platform, which vets its photographers to make sure they can deliver a certain level of quality. The photographers more or less have some creative freedom, but the important thing the company stresses is that they fit what the customers want. Users go through a short quiz or survey to ask what they might want as part of their photos — like what kinds of poses, or the photo effects at the end — and then it goes from there. After that, they’ll get retouched photos within a few days, as well as suggestions for things like holiday cards.
“What’s surprising is there are all these ancillary wedding events, like bridesmaids going out,” CEO Mariam Naficy said. “There are all things like, ‘we went to the salon together.’ There are all these mini-events under the wedding umbrella. They wanted to use photo-op because it wasn’t expensive. They trusted our brand. What we found, in general, was that there are lots of events in peoples’ lives that they’d like to have documented that they would use this service for.”
Naficy said Minted is able to take a slimmer margin on the process than a normal gig-focused platform might take because it offers those customers a way to use the content the photographers create in other products. So, if you wanted to create cards, you could pass the photos that these photographers create into other kinds of stationery — the kinds of things Minted is originally known for — all within a single service. Though people might not want to go through Minted specifically, it may remove enough friction to get people to stick around on the platform.
“I’m taking my store into the house, we’ll come take your portrait and also buy your card,” Naficy said. “In terms of where we go next and the innovation, I think it’s necessary for us to really meet the demand for today’s time-starved customer. I think it potentially could mean get out of thinking about stores and getting someone to your house. That’s how the conversation evolved. We started thinking about it in January or February, but we tend to launch things pretty quickly at Minted. We take an Amazon approach — we try it out and build it.”

That roughly $100 price point (which Naficy is intentionally a nice round number because it helps convince users that it’s a high-quality product) isn’t necessarily set in stone, as she says the company is still figuring out the exact price point. But in order to convince photographers to get onto Minted when there are other platforms out there — especially as they have to go through a vetting process, which may involve taking test photos — it’s going to have to offer some kind of a compelling business opportunity.
“I think, the price point in general though is one where we can fairly pay the photographer and attract enough people,” she said. “This is an independent group of photographers — these are not minted employees — and we’re transforming people who have free time into staff photographers. So we have to set a price where we can fairly compensate people to attract the workforce and make some margin for us. It’s really hard to test price. If you ask consumers in a focus group about price, they’re often not very accurate.”
It’s all part of getting freelance photographers who might have a real set of skills and are even better than those that are already paid professionals an opportunity to turn that habit into a real business. (Minted reached out to clarify that the platform was not geared toward being better than current professionals, but about “making it more accessible to photogaphers and the consumer.”)
And the vetting process — ensuring that higher bar of quality — is part of the reason the company will be able to differentiate itself from other completely open platforms, Naficy said. Though other platforms likely make sure they have high-quality professionals (like, say, Thumbtack), Naficy said there’s a higher quality bar to ensure Minted users that are already coming to the site for those kinds of important life events are getting what they pay for.
That, and Minted will take weird requests like switching heads on different bodies.
“Our brand is really focused on great design and quality,” Naficy said. “That’s what we’re anchored in, our customers trust us for that. For years, I think many people who have not ordered from us, don’t realize we actually scale during the holiday with hundreds of designers. They join or the season and help edit all their cards. We photoshop a lot of photos upon request. They’ll be happy to do anything, we’ve been doing this for ten years. There’s an aesthetic sense at Minted as well as know how working and training large groups of professionals to provide a modern design look.”
The pilot is launching in San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles. Minted is funded by Benchmark IDG Ventures, Menlo Ventures, Norwest Venture Partners, Technology Crossover Ventures and other angel investors. The company has raised $90 million to date.


Ho hum, Salesforce announced its quarterly earnings yesterday and the news was all good once again with revenue up 25 percent to $2.68 billion. The company has blown through its $10 billion yearly revenue goal and has boldly set one for $20 billion by FY2022. I wouldn’t put it passed them.
The company also announced some big executive moves. More on that later
Salesforce is the anti-IBM. While Big Blue has had 22 straight quarters of declining revenue, Salesforce has been on a steady increase over the last several years. The company’s quarterly revenue going back three years to Q32015 has almost doubled from $1.38B to this quarter’s $2.68B.

It has been a steady march upward, making that climb to $10B faster than any software company ever and CEO and chairman Marc Benioff had every right to crow about it in the earnings call.
“In fact as the fastest growing enterprise software company ever to reach $10 billion, we are now targeting to grow the company organically to more than $20 billion by fiscal year 2022 and we plan to do that to be the fastest enterprise software company ever to get to $20 billion,” Benioff said.
One way the company has been able to achieve that kind of growth has been through international expansion. That’s actually one place that at least one analyst, Mark Tepper of Strategic Wealth Partners said he would be watching closely to see how they were doing in that area, according to an article on CNBC.
Well, Tepper had to be pleased with what he saw. Salesforce’s Keith Block, the company’s president, vice chairman and chief operating office, said that 40% of new hires this years were outside the US and the investment seemed to be paying off with bigger growth numbers overseas than in the Americas.
Photo: Salesforce
Benioff also announced that Bret Taylor, who came over in the $750M Quip deal last year got a promotion when he became president and chief product officer. “Bret is going to drive our product vision, design, development and go-to-market strategy,” Benioff explained. Meanwhile Alex Dayon, who had been in the CPO role got promoted to president and Chief Strategy Officer. “Alex is going to lead strategic initiatives working more closely with our customers on product direction and transformation,” he said.
Both moves are designed to bring a new generation of leadership to the company, which should help Salesforce from stagnating or getting too comfortable with its success, but the company does have a lot of presidents with Taylor and Dayon joining Block , CFO Mark Hawkins and Chief People Officer Cindy Robbins all holding that title. President could be the new vice president at Salesforce.
Ray Wang, founder and principal analyst at Constellation Research says this isn’t so much about being top heavy as the way the company chooses to distinguish certain executive roles. “I think the way to look at it is they have a lot of CXO’s, ” he said. “The way to distinguish officers from CXO’s is the President title, but the promotions are well deserved and the title puts them on equal standing with the rest of the executive team,” he explained.
Wang also thinks that Taylor earned his way into the title by proving his mettle after the acquisition, and that Dayon was ready to try a different role. “Alex now gets to focus on strategy after years of honing his chops on product and service offerings,” Wang said.
The approach seems to be working. While the stock is down slightly this morning, it’s just under its one year high of 107.49. It’s unclear why Wall Street isn’t reacting more positively to yesterday’s report (at least temporarily), but the company continues its growth trajectory and the future looks bright.


Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


Since blockchain technologies appeared people have been trying to figure out how to put traditional assets like currencies, bonds and other financial instruments onto it in a way which has regulatory compliance and is secure. If you could do that you could sell securities in a legitimate way, thus disrupting large swathes of the asset management industry. In case you didn’t happen to know, the asset management industry is worth around $69 trillion or more, globally. But you have to hold these assets in wallets. And it’s not easy getting it right.
There are already a number of players in this space. Tether is a cryptocurrency issued on the Bitcoin blockchain via the Omni Layer Protocol. This allows users to trade and use digital tokens backed by the US Dollar. Each of their ‘USDT’ cryptocurrency tokens is allegedly backed by this real currency held in Tether’s reserves and can be redeemed through the Tether Platform. LAToken is a blockchain protocol and platform for creating and trading listed equity asset tokens. And Blackmoon Crypto is designed to enable traditional asset managers create and manage tokenized funds in a legally compliant manner (i.e. not go to jail!).
But this world is not easy and is fraught with problems. Tether recently claimed it was robbed of $31 million in tokens after a malicious attack.
And just recently the leading Ethereum developer, Parity, accidentally permanently froze over $160 million worth of user funds because of a fault in its wallet. Oops!
Now a new company claims it will be able to fix some of these problems, especially as it concerns wallets.
Jibrel Network, a company registered in the so-called “crypto-valley” of the Swiss canton of Zug, specializes in blockchain implementations for banks and so-called ‘Non-Bank Financial Institutions’. It recently raised $3 million from crypto investors including TaaS Fund, Tech Squared, Aurora Partners, Arabian Chain, among others.
With few robust Ethereum wallets available, and hacks continuing, the team decided to build its own.
It’s now launched the jWallet, a product aimed at consumers which, the company says, can store financial assets such as currencies, commodities, bonds and equities, on the Ethereum blockchain. The Alpha version of the wallet, which provides a simple way to store, transfer and convert ERC20 tokens, comes out today. jWallet holds no user data and all keys are stored locally.
Most wallets have to make the decision to either sacrifice security or usability. But the jWallet can be run locally, is open source and a mobile version is also available.
“There is a growing need for reliable, enterprise-grade wallet solutions, that deliver the highest levels of user-friendliness, without sacrificing security,” says Victor Mezrin, CTO.
Unlike Tether, which provides only USD in the form of ERC-20 tokens, Jibrel has created tokens for six fiat currencies (USD, GBP, EUR, RUB, AED, CNY).
Yazanz’s Barghuthi (project lead at Jibrel Networks) criticised Tether’s approach: “As it stands, Tether requires centralization with reliance on traditional banking… Simply put, in tether, users purchased USDT directly from an exchange, whereas in Jibrel, one purchases JNT and then uses that to purchase asset-backed tokens from the Jibrel DAO.”
Fighting talk.
Jibrel’s advisory board includes Don Tapscott (of Thinkers50 and author of ‘Blockchain Revolution’) and Eddy Zuaiter (former COO Soros Fund).

Featured Image: Jolanta Petraityte / EyeEm/Getty Images


With the UK government continuing to face down criticism over how it is handling plans to remove the UK from the European Union, today the country’s Chancellor Philip Hammond delivered an annual Autumn Budget that underscored its continuing push to win over the tech world.
In a wide-ranging speech laying out proposals for investment and taxes for individuals and businesses, the government laid out its commitment to innovation, and specifically artificial intelligence (AI), immersive technology, driverless cars, life sciences and FinTech. Among the initiatives: a range of investments for new technologies like AI and 5G that add up to over £500 million ($663 million); wider tax breaks and other schemes to bring more investment into the sector; and laying the groundwork for making it easier to build and test new technology in the UK, such as new rules that will let companies test self-driving cars without safety operators.
“A new tech business is funded every hour and I want that to be every half hour,” Hammond said in his speech. “So today we invest over £500 million in a range of initiatives from artificial intelligence to  5G and full-fibre broadband.”
The Budget’s tech developments come a week after Hammond and Prime Minister Theresa May unveiled £80 million in tech programs, along with an expansion of its work visa scheme for highly-skilled people.
As with that news, the UK government is aiming to reassure tech companies, those who are building them and working for them, and those who invest in them, that the UK is committed to making sure that the sector continues to thrive regardless the country leaving the EU.
This is important because the tech sector has been a juggernaut for the last several years in the UK economy — employing 1.5 million people, growing faster than the UK economy, and bringing in nearly £7 billion of investment last year. But one of the biggest concerns about Brexit has been its impact it will have on the economy and the UK’s ability to attract talent and investment and businesses from abroad once the UK is no longer interlinked with the continent.
In the short term, Brexit has already had a chilling effect, with the value of the pound dropping badly against other currencies, some investments getting put on hold as people wait to see how everything will play out, and even some startups reconsidering their options in terms of where to set up and grow.
Here is a rundown of the tech highlights in today’s Budget:
Investment: Over the next 10 years, the government proposes to spend £20 billion “to finance growth in innovative firms”. This will include a new £2.5 billion investment fund at the British Business Bank, which will co-invest with the private sector to bring the total invested up to £7.5 billion. The intention is to use this in part to offset a departure of funding from the European Investment Fund in the wake of Brexit. “We stand ready to step in to replace European Investment Fund lending if needed,” Hammond promised today.
Along with its own investment fund, the government is also doubling the allowance for tax breaks to VC firms and others that invest in “knowledge-intensive companies” (read: tech startups). The Enterprise Investment Scheme, as the initiative is called, is also going to be refocused so that it doesn’t emphasize “low-risk” businesses as much, to help channel the investing and subsequent tax breaks to businesses that are focusing on more emerging (and more risky) problems and solutions.
It will also work to improve how pension funds can invest in the tech sector. This is a key area for tapping capital, since pension funds collectively have some £2 trillion under management. Currently the UK lags behind countries like Canada in helping those groups figure out routes to investing in tech, which has been seen in the past to be too risky, but has clearly evolved, producing some of the world’s most valuable companies. (My personal opinion though is that I hope this isn’t made too easy to do: tech remains a risky business, with many startups and bigger companies failing all the time, and pension funds are a lifeline for many, so combining those could potentially be a disaster if handled badly.)
Cybersecurity: This will also have its own investment fund, “a National Security Strategic Investment Fund to invest in advanced technologies to contribute to the national security mission.” The Budget doesn’t specify a size to this fund, but it will also involve partnering with business angels to foster investments. Cybersecurity was also singled out in the Budget with a commitment of £10 million to create facilities to test the security of 5G networks, in partnership with the National Cyber Security Centre.
Artificial intelligence. As with the rest of the world, the UK is doubling down on AI to capitalise on the many forms that this will take in the years to come. One topline development is that the UK plans to establish “the world’s first national advisory body for artificial intelligence” with the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation will set standards for the use and ethics of AI and data, with the aim to lay the groundwork for “practical development” in the field. It will be conducting an independent review of AI to get things started.
The plan is to invest at least £75 million into the field of AI, to build “data trusts” to help train and run AI systems; to establish “AI fellowships” and to provide grants to fund 450 PhDs in the field “to secure the UK’s leading position in the global AI market.”
There were some other interesting pockets It also plans to put in £30 million towards “digital courses using AI” as part of a larger retraining scheme for the UK workforce.
Autonomous vehicles. One specific area of AI that the UK wants to be active in is driverless cars, citing research that projects that this will be a £28 billion industry in the UK, employing 27,000 people, when it’s up and running. As part of this — perhaps controversially — the UK wants to establish a looser framework for testing self-driving vehicles “without a safety operator.” It’s also planning to put £100 million more into a scheme to help people switch over to battery-powered electric cars.
Somewhat related to the automotive effort, the Budget also gave a little oxygen to an overhaul of the country’s geospatial data. “The UK has some of the best geospatial data in the world, and much of it is held by public bodies,” the Budget says. “The potential economic value of this data is huge.” Indeed, it’s a necessary component not just of mobile apps and other basic mapping services, but it will be an essential part of how self-driving cars will be able to manoeuvre themselves without human involvement, among other applications. The government plans to put aside £40 million annually for the next two years to figure out how to free up and commercialise some of this data.
If you’ve ever thought that regulators are somewhat ridiculous for taking too long to reach decisions and wield their power over too-powerful companies, then you might be interested to hear that the Budget also contained a provision called the “Regulators’ Pioneer Fund“, £10 million that will be used to help regulators figure out how to tap into some of the newer innovations in data science and other tech to do their jobs better.
An even smaller shout-out was given to the gaming industry — surprising considering how many successful games companies have come out of the UK over the years. The government said that it plans to throw £1 million more into the UK Games Fund each year until 2020 to help finance and support early-stage games developers.
Taxes. In addition to investments, the Budget also touches on the role the tech industry will pay in how monies are collected.
The amount of taxes that large tech businesses pay — or should we say the lack of taxes that large tech businesses pay — has been a flashpoint topic for years now, where questions have been raised over whether large tech giants like Google, Amazon and Apple are paying their fair share of taxes here when their businesses are organised to minimise that amount.
While Europe has gotten involved in the Apple tax case in Ireland and Amazon’s business in Luxembourg, and is currently going through its own proposals to figure out how to plug the tax gap in digital services, the UK has now published its own consultation into the area.
“The government remains committed to tackling tax evasion and avoidance, aggressive tax planning and non-compliance, including those seeking to evade or avoid tax using offshore structures,” the Budget notes.
The UK government says that to date it has collected nearly £160 billion in additional tax revenues since 2010 and is aiming to do more on this front by reforming tax laws in light of what it describes as “the changing nature of our economies in the digital age,” and more specifically the fact that where a product is ordered and paid for, and from where it is delivered to a consumer, may not always be the same country where that product is ultimately used.
The issue of collecting taxes is a thorny one, above and beyond all of the policies and macroeconomic trends that may get impacted by Brexit — and it represents yet another area where the UK is trying to tread carefully as it lays out its carrots to entice the tech world to stay and grow here.
Read the full budget here.

Featured Image: Phil Dolby/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


Following the news yesterday morning that the FCC will be voting on the proposal to kill net neutrality come December 14, officials and advocacy organizations have been issuing statements left and right decrying the impending upending of the internet as we know it. Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI) is among them, but took a moment to talk with TechCrunch about his misgivings in a bit more detail.
“We’re not surprised, but we are disappointed,” he said. “I’ve spoken with the Commissioner numerous times on this and I’d hoped he would take a less partisan path.”
“Partisan” may strike some as a strange description for an issue that is largely one concerning technical details and legal precedents, but if net neutrality was ever merely an issue of bits and bytes, it has become a politically charged one over the last few years. Commissioner Pai’s own repeated insistence that the 2015 rules were a plot by the Obama administration confirm that he and his team consider it so, as well.
“People in the tech community may not like politics because it seems less interesting or less pure than what they’re doing,” said Senator Schatz. “But you see the result of not caring about politics. This is no longer an abstract problem.”
We can generate a lot of emails and that’s great. But the moment those emails are converted to votes, we win.It’s perhaps unfair to say that the tech world doesn’t participate in politics: most internet-reliant companies (as opposed to internet providers) have come out publicly for net neutrality, and online efforts are largely to be credited with producing the huge amount of comments on the FCC’s proposal to end it. But these statements of support carry little political weight.
“It always helps to build pressure at the FCC level,” he continued, “but this is about us losing elections. They have a 3:2 edge at the FCC because we lost. We have to understand that when we vote in 2020, we’re voting on the future of the internet. We can generate a lot of emails and that’s great. But the moment those emails are converted to votes, we win.”
Senator Schatz has been outspoken about his opposition to the current FCC plan, and along with a handful of others in both houses of Congress, notably the House Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats, has put pressure on the Commission to explain itself beyond the occasional well-manicured public statement.
But despite their best efforts, the vote appears to be more or less a done deal, Senator Schatz agreed.
“I think we have a chance in the short run to win through litigation,” he speculated, “and I personally will be exploring the possibility of a legislative compromise.”
I personally will be exploring the possibility of a legislative compromise.Although the Senator declined to elaborate when I asked him about the litigation idea (not his department, really), he did have some to say about the possibility of changing the law.
“My point of view — and by the way, I had this point of view when it was President Obama and Tom Wheeler, to the chagrin of my progressive friends — is that we should legislate,” he said (I took his comment to mean it would have been unpopular in 2014 to embark on a parallel track to moot an effort endorsed by the president). “That would provide the stability that comes with a bipartisan bill. But it’s not at all clear to me that in this polarized environment that we can find the common ground.”
Nor is it clear that a bipartisan bill would provide the stability he envisions; the 1996 Telecommunications Act, which is at the heart of all this conflict, was itself passed with quite a bipartisan crowd, but has been the subject of endless debate and litigation. Still, it has provided a strong platform on which, at least, we can argue over details.
Alas, Senator Schatz suggested any such bill is still a ways off:
“The Republicans interested in a compromise seem interested in enshrining ‘no blocking, no throttling, no paid prioritization’ into the statute. But if the FCC doesn’t have rulemaking or enforcement authority, then that statute is meaningless.”
That would be the case if the FCC removes broadband (mobile and fixed) from the Title II classification, which applies to telecommunications services and allows the Commission broad authority over them. Without that authority, many of the existing rules would be unenforceable.
“The good news is the Republicans have started to say the right things about net neutrality,” said the Senator. “The bad news is we’re not particularly close on what a bill would look like.”
He agreed that the cynical rollback of privacy rules via Congressional Review Act in March likely helped galvanize the electorate and perhaps cause a few people to cross party lines in order to better address the concerns of voters. (Listening to one’s constituency is unusual in politics, but not entirely unheard of.)
“I think the privacy CRA awakened a giant, but now we have to do the hard work of organizing,” said the Senator. “We have the beginnings of a real powerful coalition, but we haven’t converted it to votes and that’s why we’re losing.”
I remarked that sounded a bit gloomy, but that surely such beginnings are reason to be hopeful.
“It’s absolutely hopeful!” he said. “It’s a brand new movement — just one that’s used to interacting with itself online. This has to be a real political movement that does things in real life. We’ve got work to do.”

Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images


All good things, as they say, must come to an end. That definitely holds true for early-bird pricing on Disrupt Berlin tickets. In just a few short hours — at midnight tonight, local Berlin time to be precise — the general admission ticket price increases 30 percent.
Buy your tickets today, before the clock strikes 12, and you pay €833. But at 12:01, the price goes up to €1190 (all pricing includes VAT). The early bird flies the coop, and the late bird won’t get the worm — in this case, substantial savings.
Disrupt Berlin promises non-stop excitement spanning two jam-packed days (four if you’re lucky enough to score free tickets to participate in the Hackathon on December 2-3). Here’s a taste of what you can expect:

World-class speakers on the Disrupt Berlin main stage. While our roster of speakers features an amazing line-up of startup founders and developers, it also includes an impressive group of venture capitalists. Want to learn more about fundraising or gain insight into what current trends VCs look for? Don’t miss speakers like fintech investor Jan Hammer of Index Ventures, Samantha Jérusalmy, a partner at Elaia Partners, Ciarán O’Leary, co-founder of BlueYard Capital and many more.
A world-famous startup competition, otherwise known as Startup Battlefield. We chose 15 of the most promising early-stage tech startups to go head-to-head live on the main stage. See who takes the $50,000 grand prize, the Disrupt Cup and joins the ranks of past Battlefield winners like Dropbox, Mint and Yammer.
A world of technology. You’ll find it in Startup Alley, where hundreds of companies showcase their tech and talent. TechCrunch organizes Startup Alley exhibitors into featured pavilions by categories (like Health & Biotech, Mobility & Transportation and Robotics) or countries. Some of the country pavilions you’ll find at Disrupt Berlin include The Czech Republic, Lithuania, Japan, Korea and Moldova — to name a few.

We haven’t even mentioned Off the Record sessions, CrunchMatch or the fireside chats. Like we said, this is just a taste. You can check out the full Disrupt Berlin agenda here.
Disrupt Berlin, which takes place December 4-5, 2017 at Arena Berlin, offers incredible value. But come midnight tonight, you’ll have to pay more to get it.  Buy your ticket and get the early-bird savings now — while you still can.


Lyft is the latest company to be added to the ever-growing list of those permitted to test their self-driving technology on California state public roads. The California Department of Motor Vehicles added Lyft to the list recently (via Axios), following Lyft’s foundation of a self-driving technology development center earlier this year, and its announcement that it would work on both its own autonomous tech and with automaker and other partners.
The fact that the ride hailing provider secured an autonomous vehicle testing permit from the state DMV could suggest it’s ready to start testing its own vehicles and technology on roads very soon. The company has previously discussed pilot projects with a number of autonomous technology partners to debut self-driving vehicles working on its platform, including with fellow DMV list member Drive.ai, but this would seem to suggest it’ll take a more active role in the vehicle technology itself in the near future.
Other permit holders include Lyft rival Uber, potential rival (and partner) Waymo, automakers including Mercedes-Benz, Tesla and Ford, just to name a few.


PacketZoom, a startup that helps app developers speed up and optimize app delivery on mobile devices, announced a $5M Series A today.
The round was led by Baseline Ventures with participation from First Round Capital, Tandem Capital and Arafura Ventures. Today’s investment brings the total raised to over $9M, according to Crunchbase.
The company combines a content delivery network (CDN) to speed up performance with an application performance management tool to identify performance issues in a single package. Instead of making content faster from a web delivery standpoint, it’s finding ways to speed up app performance on your mobile device. In fact, research has shown that users have very little patience when it comes to apps that are buggy or have performance issues.
Unlike a Web CDN, which cannot see what’s happening on end user devices, PacketZoom has insight into activity on the device and inside the cellular networks, company CEO Shlomi Gian explained. He says that they offer an SDK for free to developers, which gives developers analytics about the app along with network-related performance issue alerts. This is information that also helps PacketZoom understand the vagaries of the device/network connection and the kinds of problems that occur as the app interacts with the network.
The company has a second product, Mobile Expresslane from which it earns revenue. It promises to optimize the app delivery and downloads content 2-3 times faster, while reducing network errors. Developers pay-per-volume pricing for this product.
One way they do this, Gian says, is by eliminating a lot of the errors related to network timeouts. The TCP network protocol was designed to slow down traffic when it saw congestion on the network, a perfectly logical approach when it was created, but not so much in a mobile context. “On wireless, you always lose packets, so we let the server know it didn’t receive a packet and it will do it on the next round,” Gian explained.
He says this helps eliminate a lot of the network errors related to timeouts, which can happen frequently on mobile as you switch from WiFi to cellular or move between mobile networks.
The company started in 2013 and it took several years to build the product, which was released in 2016. They got their seed round in 2015 before securing the Series A they are announcing today.
In the 18 months since they launched the first product, the company has 68 paying customers including Sephora, Glu Mobile and East Side Games.
The funding round comes on the heels of Cloudflare buying Neumob, one of PacketZoom’s competitors earlier this month.

Featured Image: PeopleImages/Getty Images


The fallout from Uber’s disclosure yesterday of a massive data breach affecting 57 million users and drivers that it concealed for a year continues: The UK’s data protection watchdog has put out a strongly worded statement saying the company’s announcement “raises huge concerns around its data protection policies and ethics”.
It has also warned that deliberately concealing breaches from regulators and citizens “could attract higher fines”.
It’s not yet clear exactly how many UK Uber users have been directly affected by the October 2016 breach — although Uber disclosed yesterday that some international users are affected.
At the time of writing the company has not responded to requests for a more detailed breakdown of which markers are affected by the breach, including whether UK Uber users’ data was compromised.
In a blog post yesterday Uber said that “some personal information of 57 million Uber users around the world” had been in the files downloaded by hackers, including “names, email addresses and mobile phone numbers”.
“Our outside forensics experts have not seen any indication that trip location history, credit card numbers, bank account numbers, Social Security numbers or dates of birth were downloaded,” it added.
The UK regulator’s remarks are a clear warning shot for a company that has already been censured by a US federal agency on data security and privacy grounds — agreeing in August to 20 years of privacy audits by the FTC to settle a probe into privacy and security complaints that pre-date this new and larger data breach.
The comments are also significant because Uber is currently appealing a decision this September by London’s transport regulator to strip it of its license to operate in the UK capital. (Though it can, and is, continuing to operate in the city during the appeals process.)
Among Transport for London’s cited concerns for withdrawing licensing from Uber is its approach to explaining its use of internal software, Greyball — which Uber used in the US to try to monitor and block regulatory bodies from gaining full access to its app, in an attempt to sidestep regulators and law enforcement agencies. Earlier this year the DoJ was reported to be investigating Uber’s use of Greyball.
It is also facing a string of other federal probes relating to various aspects of its business operations.
Here’s the full statement on the Uber breach from ICO deputy commissioner James Dipple-Johnstone:

Uber’s announcement about a concealed data breach last October raises huge concerns around its data protection policies and ethics.
It’s always the company’s responsibility to identify when UK citizens have been affected as part of a data breach and take steps to reduce any harm to consumers. If UK citizens were affected then we should have been notified so that we could assess and verify the impact on people whose data was exposed.
We’ll be working with the NCSC plus other relevant authorities in the UK and overseas to determine the scale of the breach, how it has affected people in the UK and what steps need to be taken by the firm to ensure it fully complies with its data protection obligations.
Deliberately concealing breaches from regulators and citizens could attract higher fines for companies.

The UK’s National Cyber Security Centre, a branch of the GCHQ domestic intelligence agency, has also put out a statement about the Uber breach, in which it says: “Companies should always report any cyber attacks to the NCSC immediately. The more information a company shares in a timely manner, the better able we are to support them and prevent others falling victim.”
The agency also notes that it’s working closely with the UK’s National Crime Agency and the ICO to investigate “how this breach has affected people in the UK and advise on appropriate mitigation measures”.
“Based on current information, we have not seen evidence that financial details have been compromised,” the NCSC adds.

Featured Image: TechCrunch


Can Facebook be trusted to abide by even its own stated standards? In the case of Internet political advertising the social giant wants to be allowed to continue to self regulate — despite the scandal of Russian bought socially divisive ads which (we now know) were tainting democratic discussion during the 2016 US presidential election (and beyond).
‘Don’t regulate us, we can regulate ourselves — honest!‘ is shaping up to be CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s massively moonshot new year project for 2018.
But results from a new ProPublica investigation suggest the tech giant is failing at even simple self-policing — undermining any claims it can responsibly manage the bad and even out-and-out illegal outcomes that are being enabled via its platform, and bolstering the case for more formal regulation.
Case in point: A year ago Facebook said it would disable ethnic affinity ad targeting for housing, employment and credit-related ads, following a ProPublica investigation that had suggested the platform’s ad-targeting capabilities could be used for discriminatory advertising — particularly in housing and employment, where such practices are illegal.
This month ProPublica checked in again, to see how Facebook is doing — by purchasing dozens of rental housing ads and asking that Facebook’s ad platform exclude groups that are protected from discrimination under the US Federal Fair Housing Act — such as African Americans and Jews.
Its test ads promoted a fictional apartment for rent, targeted at people aged 18 to 65 who were living in New York, house hunting and likely to move — with ProPublica narrowing the audience by excluding certain “Behaviors”, listed in a section Facebook now calls “Multicultural Affinity”, including “Hispanic”, “African American” and “Asian American”.
However instead of the platform blocking the potentially discriminatory ad buys, ProPublica reports that all its ads were approved by Facebook “within minutes” — including an ad that sought to exclude potential renters “interested in Islam, Sunni Islam and Shia Islam”. It says that ad took the longest to approve of all its buys (22 minutes) — but that all the rest were approved within three minutes.
It also successfully bought ads that it judged Facebook’s system should at least flag for self-certification because they were seeking to exclude other members of protected categories. But the platform just accepted housing ads blocked from being shown to categories including ‘soccer moms’, people interested in American sign language, gay men and people interested in wheelchair ramps.
Yet, back in February, Facebook announced new “stronger” anti-discriminatory ad polices, saying it was deploying machine learning tech tools to help it identify ads in the categories of concern.
“We’ve updated our policies to make our existing prohibition against discrimination even stronger. We make it clear that advertisers may not discriminate against people based on personal attributes such as race, ethnicity, color, national origin, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, family status, disability, medical or genetic condition,” it wrote then.
Of the new tech tools, Facebook said: “This will allow us to more quickly provide notices and educational information to advertisers — and more quickly respond to violations of our policy.”
Explaining how the new system would work, Facebook said advertisers who attempt to show “an ad that we identify as offering a housing, employment or credit opportunity” and which “either includes or excludes our multicultural advertising segments — which consist of people interested in seeing content related to the African American, Asian American and US Hispanic communities” will find the platform disapproves the ad.
The new system would also require all advertisers that attempt to buy targeted advertising in the categories of concern to self-certify they are complying with Facebook’s anti-discrimination policies and with “applicable anti-discrimination laws”.
ProPublica says it never even encountered these self-certification screens, as well as never having any of its ad buys blocked.
“Under its own policies, Facebook should have flagged these ads, and prevented the posting of some of them. Its failure to do so revives questions about whether the company is in compliance with federal fair housing rules, as well as about its ability and commitment to police discriminatory advertising on the world’s largest social network,” it writes.
Responding to ProPublica’s findings, Facebook sent a statement attributed to Ami Vora, VP of product management, in which she concedes its system failed in this instance. “This was a failure in our enforcement and we’re disappointed that we fell short of our commitments. The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure,” said Vora.
She went on to claim Facebook’s anti-discrimination system had “successfully flagged millions of ads” in the credit, employment and housing categories — but also said Facebook will now begin requiring self-certification for ads in all categories that choose to exclude an audience segment.
“Our systems continue to improve but we can do better,” she added.
The latter phrase is now a very familiar refrain from Facebook where content review and moderation is concerned. Aside from socially divisive political disinformation, it has faced growing criticism this year for enabling the spread of content such as extremist propaganda and child exploitation, as well as for multiple incidents of its tools being used to broadcast suicides and murders.
The wider question for governments and regulators is at what point will Facebook’s attempts to ‘do better’ be deemed just not good enough?
Commenting on ProPublica’s findings in a statement, Rachel Goodman, an attorney with the ACLU‘s Racial Justice Program, said: “We’re very, very disappointed to see these significant failures in Facebook’s system for identifying and preventing discrimination in advertisements for rental housing. We and other advocates spent many hours helping Facebook move toward solving the egregious discrimination problem built into its ad targeting business — that advertisers could exclude people from seeing ads based on race, gender, and religion, including in ads for housing, credit, and employment. Facebook’s representations to us indicated that this problem had been substantially solved, but it now seems clear that was not the case.
“While we appreciate that Facebook continues to express a desire to get it right on this important civil rights issue, this story highlights the need for greater transparency and accountability. Had outside researchers been able to see and the system Facebook created to catch these ads, those researchers could have spotted this problem and ended the mechanism for discrimination sooner.”
This story was updated with additional comment from the ACLU


The third time could be the charm if you haven’t yet scored your free tickets to the Disrupt Berlin Hackathon. Today, we’ve released a third batch of tickets to the most exciting, grueling, 24-hour test of a developer’s chops. Tickets are available on a first-come-first-served basis, so get your tickets now before they’re gone for good.
The Hackathon takes place on December 2-3, the weekend preceding the full Disrupt Berlin conference. Picture it; hundreds of developers and engineers throughout Europe and beyond will descend on Berlin, form teams and spend 24 hours creating, coding and hacking their way to a completely new, cool or potentially life-changing product.
Competitors get one hour to form teams, and the Hackathon kicks off at 1:30 pm on Saturday. Teams have until 9:30 the following morning to complete their project. Check out the complete Hackathon schedule (all times are CET). Finally, each team gets a mere 60 seconds on the Disrupt stage to impress a panel of judges. No pressure!
Speaking of judges here’s who you’ll need to impress:
Sabela Garcia Cuesta, Program Manager, Next Media AcceleratorSabela Garcia Cuesta works at next media accelerator (NMA) in Hamburg providing early stage media startups a place to grow fast and scale in Europe entering first the German market. As program manager she represents NMA in Germany and abroad spreading the program’s benefits for European and Israeli startups, scouting potential applicants for the program and mingling with media executives and investors. She also guides the teams once they have come to Germany to help them reach their objectives.
Tina Egolf, CPO, Clue
Tina Egolf leads pirate ships (aka product teams). As Clue’s CPO she is currently defining the global product strategy and building the product, growth and monetisation teams for Clue, the #1 mobile app for female health worldwide. Before joining Clue, she took a detour into consulting with ThoughtWorks, worked for Podio as Senior Product Manager, founded and failed with her own startup and sold contemporary art. She also blogs about “future of work” and coordinates the Hamburg Geekettes, a network for women in the tech and startup scene.
Susanne Kaiser, CTO, just.social
As the CTO at Just Software, Susanne Kaiser is responsible for the software development of JUST SOCIAL – providing apps for collaboration and communication in organizations. She has a background in computer sciences and a technical and entrepreneurial expertise for more than 15 years. She is also a public speaker on international tech stages.
Diana Knodel, CEO & founder, App Camps
Diana Knodel is the founder and CEO of App Camps (appcamps.de), a non-profit that brings coding and digital skills into the classroom. With a background in computer science, psychology and educational research she worked in academia and the IT industry as a software engineer, product manager and team lead. In 2016 Diana was appointed as guest professor and lecturer at Technical University of Berlin, teaching future educators about coding and CS in the classroom. Diana is an ambassador for the Hamburg Geekettes and brings together aspiring and established female tech innovators. Edition F and D64 named her as one of the 25 leading women in Germany for the digital future.
Lisa Lang, CEO & founder, Electroculture
In now more than 10 years into her technology and media career, Lisa Lang has gained a strong reputation for being a game-changer in digital product and media innovation. She has founded ElektroCouture in 2014, a collaborative house for bespoke technologies. Lisa is a mentor to several European hardware Startups, and has been named one of the top 100 most influential people in wearable tech worldwide.
 
And speaking of the grand prize, the winning team gets $5,000 (and serious bragging rights). Everyone gets the chance to win gadgets, toys and other monetary prizes. Oh, you also get to chow down on midnight pizza and beer.
Here’s yet one more great reason to get hacking; every team that scores three or more points from the judges receives two free tickets to attend the full Disrupt Berlin conference on December 4-5.
Yup, ace your presentation and you get to experience all the techie goodness that Disrupt has to offer (for free): titans of tech speaking from the main stage, Startup Battlefield, Startup Alley, Off the Record sessions, serious networking and the best after-parties anywhere.
The time is what we like to call Now O’clock. Get your tickets today and bring your creativity, your mad skills and your best ideas to the Disrupt Berlin Hackathon.


	


“The maturity of founders is just exponentially better and different from when we started in ‘07,” says Seedcamp co-founder and Managing Partner Reshma Sohoni. “[They are] so much more knowledgeable, so much more practiced in the art of starting up”.
I’m on a conference call with Sohoni, Seedcamp’s other Managing Partner Carlos Espinal, and three additional members of the Seecamp team. All are sounding buoyant, and perhaps with every reason to be so. The London-based VC firm recently sold its first two funds to Draper Esprit, and today is announcing the first close of a new £41 million fund, double the size of its last. This year the VC is also celebrating its 10 year anniversary.
Yes, a whole decade has passed since Seedcamp launched what was then the first pan-European accelerator, at times almost singlehandedly dragging the disparate European startup community into the same room. In those ten years, the pre-seed and seed investor has backed over 250 early-stage companies, most notably TransferWise, and has seen 22 exits in total. The Seedcamp model has also had to iterate considerably as the ecosystem has grown up around it.
“While what we were offering worked well with the ambitions of ten years ago, you have to evolve your offering to meet the ambitions of today,” says Sohoni.
No longer an accelerator, applications for pre-seed funding are accepted on a rolling basis. With this fourth fund, Seedcamp will be writing bigger cheques, too. It will invest £100,000 into startups at pre-seed stage and can anchor a round of up to £250,000 as it brings in other angel investors.
At seed stage, Seedcamp will now invest up to £400,000 in rounds of up to £2 million as part of a syndicate where there is already a lead investor. A significant pot of capital is also earmarked for follow-on rounds up to Series B, as the pan-European firm looks to have a bigger stake in the game..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



“Everything we’ve built up has been around getting a company from that first round of funding to that very, very strong next round,” explains Seedcamp Investment Partner Tom Wilson. “By unlocking a slightly larger cheque at the very, very earliest stage, we think it will allow the companies to get to that next round in an even stronger position”.
The maturity of the wider investor landscape has also changed over the years, notes Espinal, not least in how investors seek out startups right across the continent. “When Seedcamp started 10 years ago we were bringing together the community for the first time across Europe. And over the years so much has changed,” he says. “We have these huge events now — Web Summit, Slush, TechCrunch Disrupt. That means we are now tapping into more mature networks of angels and investors in all different geographies.”
That is perhaps reflected in the list of Seedcamp’s LPs for ‘Fund IV’. The U.K. government-backed British Business Bank is the anchor LP, and is joined by the likes of MassMutual Ventures, Investec, Thomas Cook Money, Index Ventures, Atomico, Idinvest Partners, ADV, Draper Esprit, SpeedInvest, and Underscore Ventures. In total, the list comprises 60 corporates, VC firms, and ‘fund of funds’.

In addition, Seedcamp has seen first-hand how the infrastructure in Europe for startups has matured, including Europe’s understanding of what it takes to make a successful company. “That means we’re bringing these bits together more and more instead of having to create them ourselves. We see that even in geographies we’ve invested in. We were the first to invest in Portugal, for example, and now that’s a blossoming ecosystem. We’ve done that for Estonia. So much has changed and as a consequence we’ve evolved with it,” adds Espinal.
Of course, competition among investors has also increased exponentially, even if the number and quality of entrepreneurs has arguably kept up. I wonder out loud how Seedcamp positions itself now it is far from the only value-add European investor at the pre-seed and seed stage.
“I think one of the main benefits with Seedcamp is our network: the fact that we’ve invested in over 250 companies over 10 years,” says Wilson. “For the founders we work with, access and tapping into that network has been hugely, hugely valuable for them as they’re sharing experiences. We feel that’s an unfair advantage which any founder gets by receiving investment from Seedcamp”.

Crunchbase






				Seedcamp			


 
Founded
2007


Overview
Seedcamp is Europe's seed fund, identifying and investing early in world-class founders attacking large, global market and solving real problems using technology. Since launch a decade ago Seedcamp has invested in 250 startups including the likes of fintech unicorn TransferWise along with some of Europe's fastest growing companies Revolut, UiPath and wefox. 

Seedcamp fast-tracks a founder’s vision …


Location

London, England



Categories

Financial Services, 																													Finance, 																													Venture Capital 


Founders
Reshma Sohoni


Website

http://www.seedcamp.com 


Full profile for Seedcamp 









Sohoni goes even further, arguing that Seedcamp is a “startup economy” in its own right, in which portfolio companies can find their first users and customers amongst each other. “We are literally a functioning economy… with 250 and adding another 100 companies over the next 2-3 years,” she says. “Whether on the B2C side, they’re often the first 500 or 1,000 users, or on the B2B side, the first 10 or 20 or 50 customers, and they unlock an even greater economy of startups that are in our LPs’ portfolios. Getting that privileged access to this startup economy is unrivalled”.
Seedcamp isn’t standing still, however, and there are no obvious signs of complacency. As it continues to hunt Europe for the best early-stage tech entrepreneurs, it isn’t being shy of new places or ways to invest in them. This — in what is bound to grab headlines — includes getting permission from LPs to invest in crypto tokens.
“It’s clear the community is really keen on using tokens as a way of fundraising and we’re just getting ahead of the game,” says Espinal. “I think we are the only LP/GP fund that has explicit permission to invest in crypto and tokens and we want to use that as a mechanism to back the next generation of decentralised companies”.
That, I propose, sounds fraught with risk, given that we seem to be in somewhat of a crypto bubble, including a number of alleged scams, and it is far from clear what makes a successful Initial Coin Offering, either from an investment or company point of view. The Seedcamp General Partner bats away my scepticism and says it’s important to separate coin investments that are currently grabbing headlines with the investment structure itself.
“For us as investors, what we need to be mindful of is separating opportunities with structures that benefit companies. We’re going to be having a keen eye on things that match our investment criteria but we’re going to be very open to any structure that is cutting edge if it benefits the company and gives us a return,” he says.




0
SHARES






























		
	




		


If the FCC’s refusal to acknowledge the vast public outcry against its plan to gut net neutrality isn’t enough of an outrage, its total disinterest in investigating how that same comment system may have been gamed by fake users posing as real Americans adds a bit more insult to injury.
Suspicions arose earlier this year that a person or an organization of some kind was manipulating the FCC feedback system, flooding it with canned anti-net neutrality comments. While form letters around activist causes like this are nothing new, many of those comments were linked to real names, addresses and zip codes of people who denied having ever left feedback on the FCC website. In an open letter on Tuesday, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman wrote that his office pursued an investigation of the incident, but that the FCC basically ignored all of its requests for cooperation.
In a Medium post, Schneiderman writes:

“Successfully investigating this sort of illegal conduct requires the participation of the agency whose system was attacked. So in June 2017, we contacted the FCC to request certain records related to its public comment system that were necessary to investigate which bad actor or actors were behind the misconduct. We made our request for logs and other records at least 9 times over 5 months: in June, July, August, September, October (three times), and November.
We reached out for assistance to multiple top FCC officials, including you, three successive acting FCC General Counsels, and the FCC’s Inspector General. We offered to keep the requested records confidential, as we had done when my office and the FCC shared information and documents as part of past investigative work.
Yet we have received no substantive response to our investigative requests. None.”

Likening the manipulation of real names and addresses to more traditional forms of identity theft, Schneiderman expresses concerns about how the fake comments could have warped the FCC’s assessment of public sentiment on net neutrality.
“In an era where foreign governments have indisputably tried to use the internet and social media to influence our elections, federal and state governments should be working together to ensure that malevolent actors cannot subvert our administrative agencies’ decision-making processes,” Schneiderman said.
Earlier this year, at least two journalists filed lawsuits against the FCC for its failure to comply with Freedom of Information Act requests on the same topic, one of which sought information about the FCC’s claims that a DDoS attack took its commenting system offline. While the fate of net neutrality may be something of a foregone conclusion at this point, the agency’s brazen lack of transparency around its commenting system shows just how little regard Ajit Pai’s FCC has for the concerns of the American people.

Featured Image: SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images


The story of AppLovin‘s acquisition has taken another turn.
We first reported that the mobile ad startup was in acquisition talks in August of last year, and the announcement came a month later: AppLovin would sell a majority stake Chinese private equity firm Orient Hontai Capital.
Today, however, CEO Adam Foroughi revealed that the deal is (sort of) off. Instead of an outright acquisition, the firm will provide AppLovin with $841 million in debt financing — that’s on top of the 9.98 percent stake that Orient Hontai already acquired in January, thanks to a $140 million equity investment.
“This debt financing allows us to maintain full control of our business while accessing additional capital to help finance our continued global growth,” Foroughi wrote. “Our goal remains enabling developers of all sizes to grow their businesses.”
Reuters reports that the U.S. government opposed the deal. Apparently this is part of a larger trend, with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States becoming more reluctant to approve Chinese deals since the inauguration of Donald Trump.

Featured Image: Applovin


Today’s Stories

FCC highlights plan to kill net neutrality
Android secretly sending location data
Bitcoin just passed $8,000
Toyota’s new robot can be controlled in VR

Credits
Written by: Brian HeaterHosted by: Brian HeaterFilmed by: Veanne CaoEdited by: John Murillo
Notes:

Tell your congressperson you support Net Neutrality!


The revelation that Uber concealed a major 2016 data breach affecting 57 million users and paid hackers to destroy the evidence is yet another PR nightmare from Uber’s darkest era, but it’s also a major problem when it comes to state laws around data breach disclosure practices. In light of Bloomberg’s report, the office of New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman confirmed to TechCrunch that it has opened an investigation into the incident.
The new investigation won’t be the first time that Uber has tangled with Schneiderman. Flaunting laws over the course of its aggressive pursuit of growth, Uber often ran into conflict with city and state legal authorities, and New York is no exception. The company reached a settlement with Schneiderman’s office in January 2016 over its abuse of private data in a rider-tracking system known as “God View” and its failure to disclose a previous data breach that took place in September 2014 in a timely manner.
As a result of the settlement, Uber was required to encrypt the geodata of its riders, employ a multi-factor authentication system to verify the identity of anyone accessing rider data and make other standard security enhancements to protect consumer privacy. Uber also agreed to pay a $20,000 fine for its failure to disclose the data breach. While that fine was hardly a bump in the road for such a massive tech company, the new security requirements imposed by the Attorney General offered a more robust reproach.
TechCrunch also reached out to the FTC about how it planned to handle news of the new Uber data breach, but the agency replied that it did not have a comment at this time. Earlier this year, Uber settled with the FTC around the “God view” tool and its failure to protect the private data of consumers in a previous data breach. Uber agreed to 20 years of privacy and security auditing as a result of the FTC settlement.
Given the New York Attorney General’s interest in the latest Uber scandal, it follows that Uber will likely be in the hot seat in its home state of California, where under Civil Code 1798.82 businesses are required to disclose data breaches affecting more than 500 state residents to the Attorney General “in the most expedient time possible and without unreasonable delay.” TechCrunch has reached out to the office of California Attorney General Xavier Becerra and we’ll update when we hear back.
Given how far Uber strayed beyond the legal protocols that protect consumer data — and the unsettling twist that it actually paid off its own attackers — it’s likely that we’ll hear much more from state and federal authorities as they investigate a repeat offender that just can’t seem to learn a lesson.


On a lonely stretch of road just off the highway in Torrance, Calif. employees at Divergent 3D are hard at work plotting a revolution in vehicle manufacturing.
Inside the nondescript office building across the street from a branch of the Los Angeles Housing Authority and California Highway Patrol, chief executive Kevin Czinger and his staff are laying the groundwork for the creation of a more environmentally sustainable, flexible and customizable means of making vehicles.
Through the application of software and additive manufacturing techniques, Divergent 3D says it has developed a process that can manufacture tens of thousands of vehicles customized to the needs of fleet operators at a dramatically lower cost and without the toxic emissions that make auto manufacturing one of the most polluting industries in the world, according to Czinger.
For the former college football star, roustabout, marine and Goldman Sachs investment banker, Divergent is a second chance for success in the world of automotive startups. His previous startup, Coda Automotive, sank under the weight of executive disputes and a strategic misalignment between Czinger and the partners and investors who had lined up to finance the electric vehicle manufacturer.
Financing that vision is a new clutch of primarily Chinese investors who have agreed to commit up to $107 million in financing through a new investment round of more than $65 million and follow-on commitments of an additional $40 million predicated on revenue growth, the company said in a statement.
Investors include previous backers Horizons Ventures and longtime partner Altran Technologies, along with new lead investor O Luxe Holdings (an investment conglomerate backed by the Hong Kong-based real estate investment magnate Li Ka-shing) and Shanghai Alliance Investment Limited — an investment arm of the Shanghai Municipal Government.
After leaving Coda in 2010, Czinger took some time off and began thinking about what to do next. Still convinced that innovations in vehicle manufacturing offered a chance to curb the growth of emissions that are the main culprits of climate change, Czinger began in 2011 to look not at the emissions coming from vehicles, but from the whole manufacturing process.
From that thinking came Divergent, which launched in 2014. The company’s integrated hardware and software-based manufacturing process uses additive metal manufacturing in the design, engineering and manufacturing of vehicle structures for both automotive and aerospace companies.
Altran, a provider of engineering and research and development services to some of the world’s largest industrial companies, was an early believer — and backer — of Divergent’s approach to manufacturing, and along with other early investors like Synapse Partners, joined Horizons Ventures (Li Ka-shing’s primary early-stage investment vehicle) in backing Czinger’s vision with an initial $23 million investment.
Since the round, Divergent has developed partnerships with manufacturers and equipment providers like PSA Group (which makes Peugeots and Citroens) and SLM Solutions, which develops 3D metal printing technology.
The youngest of five brothers, Czinger grew up with a passion for cars, and after a wildly successful career in investment banking and private equity, was drawn back to that childhood fascination thanks to another concern — global warming.
“The thing that’s really broken is the way you design and manufacture vehicles,” Czinger told me in an interview last year. “If you go through from mining to vehicle disposal… vehicle manufacturing and fuel manufacturing are much more destructive [to the environment] than tailpipe exhaust. You have to radically reduce the material and energy that goes into the manufacturing phases.”
That realization only came after trying to make a competitive electric vehicle company nearly a decade earlier — and seeing the process of making those vehicles in China for the Chinese market.
“If you have an electric car that weighs over 6,000 pounds and consumes a lot of coal-fired electricity, you are massively accelerating the destruction of the planet,” Czinger said. “We’re going to build 4-5 billion cars. Which means, we’re going to effectively quadruple the number of vehicles on the planet. Those are heavy and will require lots of energy if the cars themselves require fossil fuels or no fossil fuels.”
Given those numbers, it’s not just the fuel source that needs to change on vehicles, Czinger said, but the entire process for making cars needs to change, as well.
The timing seems to be right for Czinger’s vision of a more modular, lower carbon footprint manufacturing process, according to early Divergent investor Evangelos Simoudis, a managing director with Synapse Partners. 
“What will be very important will be to create new vehicle designs to deal with lighter vehicles to deal with extended range or to have a better fuel efficiency as a result,” Simoudis said. “I believe we will need to have lighter vehicles and I believe that manufacturing, automotive manufacturing will need to adapt to small batch manufacturing.”
While companies like Uber, Lyft and Waymo are buying and modifying existing models to build out their fleets of autonomous vehicles, Simoudis says that they would be better off building out purpose-built fleets at lower costs.
“We will come to a point where will we be able to utilize data to create a fleet of vehicles that is tailored to a specific function or a specific operating environment,” Simoudis tells me. “The vehicle operating as a taxi operating in NYC could be very different from the vehicle operating as a taxi in Singapore. And this is why it’s important to address small-batch manufacturing effectively and in an economically viable way.”
The revenue model that Czinger envisions would work something like this. Companies would contract with Divergent 3D to design a bespoke vehicle. The company then works on the engineering to produce a prototype within a year. Original equipment manufacturers (or a company like Altran) could set up and build the manufacturing facility and pay Divergent 3D a licensing fee for the vehicles.
“The big catalytic event will be 18 months out when people see the first validation prototype cars from real major companies,” Czinger told me.
And, the plan could usher in a revitalization of manufacturing in cities across the country. “You’re relocating jobs and the manufacturing and the jobs and the training that you’re relocating is back to the U.S.,” he said.


In Blade Runner 2049, one of the more interesting stylistic choices was how the film imagined futuristic augmented reality. While the Microsofts and Googles of our real dystopian world are currently approaching AR tech with headsets and smart glasses, Blade Runner 2049 relied entirely on external projection to augment its world and the people in it.
This vision of the future may still seem a tad concerning, but it’s good news for San Francisco-based AR startup Lightform.
Lightform isn’t a hologram startup, but by capturing structured light, their projector-mounted computer is able to easily scan the geometry of a space and place mesmerizing animations and stills onto objects and surfaces. The fun little expensive device plugs into the back of just about any projector and brings augmented reality to any surface it can shine on. The startup’s accompanying Lightform Creator desktop software subsequently allows users to easily edit how the projector interacts with the spaces it’s projecting on, letting them add AR effects or display media.

Lightform has raised $5 million in a funding round led by Lux Capital. Dolby Family Ventures, CrunchFund, Comet Labs, Presence Capital and Anorak Ventures also participated in the round. The startup has raised $7.8 million to date.
By first looks, the company’s product would seem to have every hallmark of the cool Kickstarter hardware project that you back only to have it arrive years later or not at all. Lightform has done something seemingly radical, however, in that they have already raised the necessary funding to manufacture the first 2,000 units.
“There’s been a lot of undelivered hype in the AR/VR space, so we want to ensure we can ship a product to our customers, and deliver on our promises,” said Lightform CEO Brett Jones. “Given the skepticism around AR vaporware, we want to make it clear that Lightform is real and being used for real applications. Funding the development with this new capital allows us to finalize our product before we start selling it, not the other way around.”

The company’s tech is already being used to help display the menu at my favorite hipster San Francisco cafe, Vive La Tarte, a place that sells “Smashed Avo Toast” for $14. It’s safe to say that the early market for Lightform’s tech is aesthetic-first, and the company’s founders indeed emphasized that “designers who design spaces” are likely to be their first customers, though they noted anyone with a working knowledge of Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator should be able to handle it as well.
Lightform hasn’t put a final price tag on the device, but its founders say the company is hoping to ship it at under $1,000. The team is currently “alpha-testing” with partners as it begins manufacturing and will be opening pre-orders next year.


As Apple reportedly ramps up work to ship an augmented reality headset in 2020, it has acquired a startup from Montreal, Canada that could help it get there. TechCrunch has learned that Apple has acquired Vrvana, maker of the Totem headset — which had rave reviews but never shipped. The deal was for around $30 million, two sources tell TechCrunch.
We contacted Apple, and the company declined to comment, but also did not deny the story. Vrvana did not reply to our request for comment. Sources close to the deal have confirmed the acquisition to us.
The deal is significant because while we have seen reports and rumors about Apple’s interest in AR hardware, the company has been very tight-lipped and generally is very secretive about completely new, future products. This acquisition is perhaps the clearest indicator yet of what the company is hoping to develop.
A number of the startup’s employees have joined Apple in California. The Vrvana site is currently still up, but it stopped updating social accounts and news in August of this year.
It’s not clear what of Vrvana’s existing products, product roadmap or current business — it worked with Valve, Tesla, Audi and others under NDA — will be making its way to Apple.
The only product that Vrvana shows off on its site is the unreleased Totem headset, an “extended reality” device utilizing key technologies from both AR and virtual reality to allow for both experiences on a single headset.
A screen grab from one of Vrvana’s promotional videos for the Totem.
The tethered device had a form factor similar to many of today’s VR headsets, but uniquely relied on several forward-facing pass-through cameras to replicate the outside world on its OLED displays inside the headset. The system of cameras enabled 6DoF tracking, a technology which allows the device to track its position in 3D space, while also using infrared cameras to track a user’s hands.
Vrvana’s camera-based AR approach differs from competitors like Microsoft, which is utilizing transparent, projection-based displays for its HoloLens headset. The Totem holds a number of advantages over these systems, most notably in that it is able to overlay fully opaque, true-color animations on top of the real world rather than the ghost-like projections of other headsets which critically cannot display the color black. This allows the headset to do what it calls “seamless blend” transitions between VR and AR environments.
A key disadvantage in these types of systems, aside from bulky aesthetics, is that there is often noticeable lag between the cameras capturing the outside world and how quickly it is displayed in-headset. Vrvana CEO Bertrand Nepveu detailed this problem in a talk this summer where he shared that the startup had working prototypes that brought this latency down to 3 milliseconds.
An animation showcasing how the Totem smoothly transitions between AR and VR modes.
There are consumer applications for this kind of “extended reality” technology — for example, in games and other entertainment — but one key focus for Vrvana was enterprise usage.
“Totem’s hand tracking and inside-out positional tracking empowers your workforce to manipulate virtual objects with their hands wherever they please,” the company said in promotional materials on the headset.
This is notable considering Apple’s focus — both on its own and in partnership with other IT providers like IBM, Cisco and SAP — to court different enterprise verticals. In August, CEO Tim Cook singled out enterprise as one key focus for its AR ambitions, and in its last earnings the company reported double-digit growth in the area. The company last broke out its enterprise sales back in 2015, when Cook described it as a $25 billion business.
But scaling remains one of the hardest things for startups — especially hardware startups — to do, and this is even more the case for startups working in emerging technologies that have yet to break into the mainstream.
Founded back in 2005, Vrvana had not disclosed much of its funding. A source tells TechCrunch the company raised less than $2 million, a modest figure in the world of hardware. Investors according to PitchBook included Real Ventures (whose partner Jean-Sebastian Cournoyer is also involved with Element.ai, an ambitious AI startup and incubator in Montreal), the Canadian Technology Accelerator, and angel Richard Adler, who is also active in other VR startups.
Up to now, Apple has been fairly critical of the state of VR and AR hardware in the market today, and it has downplayed its own hand in the game.
“Today I can tell you the technology itself doesn’t exist to do that in a quality way. The display technology required, as well as putting enough stuff around your face – there’s huge challenges with that,” Cook told The Independent in answer to a question about whether it was building a headset. “The field of view, the quality of the display itself, it’s not there yet…We don’t give a rat’s about being first, we want to be the best, and give people a great experience. But now anything you would see on the market any time soon would not be something any of us would be satisfied with. Nor do I think the vast majority of people would be satisfied.”
That’s not to say that Apple has not been enthusiastic about the augmented reality space. But to date, this interest has largely manifested itself through software — specifically the company’s iOS-based ARKit SDK — and the increasingly sophisticated camera arrays on the iPhone rather than through a dedicated device, although there have been plenty of Apple patents that also potentially point to one.
Apple also has made other acquisitions that underscore its interest in developing the technology that powers the hardware. In June, Apple acquired SMI, an eye-tracking firm that was working on solutions for VR and AR headsets. Other AR and VR-related acquisitions have included Flyby Media, metaio, Emotient, and Faceshift.


Instagram just rolled out a neat feature for its live product. Users can now request to join a live stream that they’re watching and, if accepted, can start broadcasting live as the host’s guest.
To request to join a live video a viewer can tap a request button in the comments section. Hosts see the request pop up in real time and can accept or deny, and also have access to a list of pending requests in case a bunch of different people are trying to join in.
Instagram had already let anyone streaming live invite a friend to join them, but by adding a request feature the possibilities for collaboration are greatly expanded.
Imagine a celebrity “taking calls” from fans. With the ability to see all pending requests, a host could pick a fan to join them live at random, or even selectively pick someone who just made an insightful comment in the chat.
Of course, there’s the worry that someone says something inappropriate when they join, but that’s not necessarily any riskier than allowing random people to comment on your posts. In an ideal world, Instagram would build in a feature like a 2- or 3-second delay that would let the host boot the guest if they said anything inappropriate, but for now it seems like hosts will just have to selectively screen their guests.
The feature also should be helpful among friends. It shifts the burden for collaboration from host to guest, meaning a lot more people should try to participate, which results in a happier host and better overall content.


Are you a celebrity who’s sexually harassed a bunch of people and are now in need of an apology to subdue an angry mob? Look no further than the Celebrity Perv Apology Generator.
The desktop app packages all the usual elements of several recent non-apologies that have come up when other fellow perverts’ dark pasts have come to light. In what might be described as a more honest approach, you’ll get the dodge, blame others or suggest how normal this is, as in just “locker room talk,” say you feel bad without admitting anything and a nice tie-up to help you escape the blame all in one easy-to-read paragraph.
Take this randomly generated apology, for example:
As someone who grew up in a different era, I feel tremendously guilty now that the things I did have been made public. I was intoxicated at the time, and of course now I realize my behavior was wrong. In conclusion, I will not change anything about my actions or behavior.
Another good one:
As the father of daughters, harassment is completely unacceptable — especially when people find out about it. It was simply boys locker room talk, and of course now I realize my behavior was wrong. In conclusion, I will wait 2-3 years before reappearing in film and TV and just sort of hope you all forget about this.
It seems we hear daily now of men in prominent positions who have been caught. In just the last week Al Franken, Charlie Rose and Glenn Thrush have joined a growing list of men who’ve been accused of committing terrible acts of sexual harassment.
While some men do seem to be sincerely sorrowfulness over their actions, many others turn time and again to these hollow and so-called apology tactics. Now you don’t even have to think up for yourself how to give one of these non-apologies. You’ll have one at the ready — when your time surely comes — to pretend like there’s nothing wrong with what you did to the people who looked up to you, trusted you and relied on you for connections, careers and livelihoods.

Featured Image: Roy Rochlin/Getty Images


We knew this was only a matter of time, but Google today confirmed that Google Lens as part of the Google Assistant is now rolling out to all Pixel phone owners. That’s something Google already announced at its hardware event, but until now, the timing was unclear.
If you don’t see it when you call up the Google Assistant, though, don’t worry. The company says that this feature is rolling out slowly but that it’s coming to all Pixel phones in the U.S., U.K., Australia, Canada, India and Singapore over the “coming weeks.” Once the feature is live, you will see the Google Lens logo in the bottom right corner of the Assistant screen.
Until now, the only way to use Lens was through Google Photos on the Pixel phone, but that meant you had to first take a picture, then go to Google Photos, open that picture and then tap the Lens icon.
That was a lot of work, especially because for the most part, Lens either tells you things you already know (yep, that’s the Sydney Opera House, who could’ve guessed…) or doesn’t have much of an answer to begin with. In its first incarnation in Google Photos, it was all a bit disappointing (though it did reasonably well with artwork).
The promise of Lens in the Assistant goes a bit further, though. Google says that it can save information from business cards (remember those?), follow URLs, call phone numbers and recognize addresses. It also can recognize landmarks (though chances are that if Lens recognizes a landmark, then so can you), and show you information about movies and books by just looking at the spine or a poster. It also can scan bar codes. We’ll see how well that all works once it hits our phones.


Uber faced a data breach in 2016 that affected some 57 million customers, including both riders and drivers, revealing their names, email address and phone numbers. That affected group included 50 million riders and 7 million drivers; around 600,000 driver license numbers for U.S. drivers were also included in the breach, according to a new report from Bloomberg.
Uber did not report the incident to regulators or to affected customers, but instead paid $100,000 to “hackers” to get rid of the data in order to keep the breach under wraps, according to the report. It says further that no security numbers or trip location information was taken in the attack, and that it doesn’t believe the info that was leaked was ever used, though it doesn’t specify who was responsible.
New Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi told Bloomberg via email that while he “will not make excuses” for the incident, he also believes that “none of this should have happened.” Khosrowshahi, who joined the ride-hailing company in August after a search for a replacement CEO following co-founder Travis Kalanick’s departure, also said that Uber did shut down the attack vector and increased its security measures following the attack, but that it failed in its duty to report.
Bloomberg says that Kalanick was aware of the hack as early as November 2016, just a month after it occurred. Uber Chief Security Officer Joe Sullivan, and a key senior deputy to the CSO, have also been removed from the company this week, specifically for their roles in keeping the cyberattack secret.
The report says the attack occurred because attackers managed to gain login credentials for an Uber Amazon Web Services account using a private GitHub site maintained by Uber engineers.
In a blog post addressing the breach, Khosrowshahi laid out plans for how the company will address the fallout of the incident, including bringing on a former NSA general counsel to provide guidance to Uber’s security teams, and notifying drivers whose license numbers were included in the breach. Uber will not only notify the drivers, but also offer them credit monitoring and identity theft protection services, though the post also says they haven’t seen “evidence of fraud or misuse tied to the incident.”
We’ve reached out to Uber for additional comment, and will update if we receive a response.

Featured Image: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images


Salesforce has named Bret Taylor, the former chief technology officer at Facebook and founder of Quip, as president and chief product officer.
Taylor first joined Salesforce in 2016, when Salesforce acquired word processing app Quip for $750 million. Now, Taylor is replacing Alex Dayon as the company’s CPO and Dayon is moving into the role of chief strategy officer.
As chief product officer, Taylor will be tasked with leading Salesforce’s product vision, design, development and launches.
“We are fortunate to have two such exceptional technology leaders in Alex and Bret to help lead Salesforce’s next wave of growth, innovation and customer success,” Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff said in a press release.
When Salesforce first announced its acquisition of Quip and its team, my colleague Ingrid Lunden suspected Salesforce could be planning to do something bigger. It’s not clear if this was part of the plan all along, but this is how it’s playing out.

Featured Image: Bloomberg / Contributor/Getty Images




John Lasseter, the chief creative officer of both Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, is the latest media executive to face allegations of inappropriate behavior.
In a memo to employees, Lasseter acknowledged “missteps” and said he will be taking a six-month sabbatical. He added that after “a number of difficult conversations,” he realized, “I have made some of you feel disrespected or uncomfortable.”
“That was never my intent,” Lasseter said. “Collectively, you mean the world to me, and I deeply apologize if I have let you down. I especially want to apologize to anyone who has ever been on the receiving end of an unwanted hug or any other gesture they felt crossed the line in any way, shape, or form. No matter how benign my intent, everyone has the right to set their own boundaries and have them respected.”
According to The Hollywood Reporter, former Pixar employees and others in the animation industry have said that Lasseter is well-known for hugging employees and “grabbing, kissing, making comments about physical attributes,” while Variety reports that others have described the environment at Pixar as “sexist” and “toxic” for women.
Lasseter directed Pixar’s first short films, as well as its initial features, starting with Toy Story. Following the studio’s acquisition in 2006, he was also put in charge of Disney’s animation division, leading to a string of critical and commercial hits, including Frozen.
“We are committed to maintaining an environment in which all employees are respected and empowered to do their best work,” a Disney spokesperson said in an emailed statement. “We appreciate John’s candor and sincere apology and fully support his sabbatical.”
Update: One of the stories recounted by The Hollywood Reporter involved Toy Story 4 writers Rashida Jones and Will McCormack, who supposedly left the project early because Lasseter made an unwanted advance. However, Jones and McCormack have now released a statement saying that it isn’t true: “We parted ways because of creative and, more importantly, philosophical differences.”
They go on to say:
There is so much talent at Pixar and we remain enormous fans of their films. But it is also a culture where women and people of color do not have an equal creative voice, as is demonstrated by their director demographics: out of the 20 films in the company’s history, only one was co-directed by a woman and only one was directed by a person of color. We encourage Pixar to be leaders in bolstering, hiring, and promoting more diverse and female storytellers and leaders. We hope we can encourage all those who have felt like their voices could not be heard in the past to feel empowered.

Featured Image: Jason LaVeris/FilmMagic/Getty Images


Six years after taking the helm as head of HP, Meg Whitman will step down from her role as CEO of Hewlett Packard Enterprise in February 2018. Whitman’s spot will be filled by the company’s current president, Antonio Neri.
Neri has been with HP since 1995, starting as a customer service engineer at a call center, ultimately climbing the ranks to executive vice president of HPE in 2015 and then to president in June of this year. 
Whitman joined the company in 2011, after serving as the head of eBay. During her tenure at HP, the executive oversaw a rocky time for the electronics giant, ultimately splitting the company in two: a personal computer and printing company headed up by EVP Dion Weisler, and HPE, an information technology company, where she retained her position as CEO.
Late last year, the company thinned out further by selling its OpenStack and Cloud Foundry assets to German company SUSE. Earlier this year, it spun off most of the rest of its remaining enterprise software business, the last lingering piece of a 2011 Autonomy acquisition, which was regarded as the latest in a long line of regrettable moves for the company.
Whitman’s impact on HP has largely been seen as a stabilizing force for a company that was moving in the wrong direction at a rapid clip. Her predecessor, Leo Apotheker, was only in the role for about a year — at the time, the company had a much more difficult time finding something nice to say about its ex-boss, stating, “We very much appreciate Leo’s efforts and his service to HP since his appointment last year. The board believes that the job of the HP CEO now requires additional attributes to successfully execute on the company’s strategy.”
Whitman had previously served as the president and CEO of eBay, growing the online auction site from 30 employees in 1998 to 15,000 by the end of her tenure.

“I’m incredibly proud of all we’ve accomplished since I joined HP in 2011. Today, Hewlett Packard moves forward as four industry-leading companies that are each well positioned to win in their respective markets,” Whitman said in a statement tied to this afternoon’s news. “Now is the right time for Antonio and a new generation of leaders to take the reins of HPE. I have tremendous confidence that they will continue to build a great company that will thrive well into the future.”
Back in July, Whitman was floated as a replacement for Uber CEO Travis Kalanick, ultimately batting away such rumors, stating, “We have a lot of work still to do at HPE and I am not going anywhere.” That’s still somewhat true here — Whitman will stay on as a member of HPE’s board of directors. She hasn’t announced any plans beyond that. 
The big news comes the same day HPE reported its quarterly earnings, in which the company performed slightly better than analyst expectations. 

Featured Image: Getty Images


While it didn’t dampen enthusiasm for everyone’s favorite dragon-oriented political drama, HBO certainly wasn’t happy when the major twists from the seventh season of its hottest show popped up online before they aired.
According to a newly released indictment, an Iranian man named Behzad Mesri faces charges for the hack. The document notes Mesri, who also goes by the alias “Skote Vahshat,” has worked for the Iranian military on hacks targeting Israel and that he belongs to an Iran-based hacking collective known as the Turk Black Hat. Mesri can’t be arrested now, but if he moved between countries that could become an option.
The indictment alleges that Mesri began his efforts to hack HBO in May 2017, feeling out the network for a way onto its networks. It goes on to describe how between May and July of this year, Mesri hacked into the accounts of multiple HBO employees, using that access to steal files, including episodes of “Barry,” “Ballers,” “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” “Room 104” and “The Deuce,” as well as scripts from Game of Thrones and confidential HBO financial documents.
The case is being pursued by the Southern District of New York’s Complex Frauds and Cybercrime Unit, with Assistant United States Attorneys Timothy T. Howard, Richard Cooper and Jonathan Cohen leading the prosecution.
“American ingenuity and creativity is to be cultivated and celebrated — not hacked, stolen, and held for ransom,” Acting Manhattan U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim said of the case.
“For hackers who test our resolve in protecting our intellectual property — even those hiding behind keyboards in countries far away —  eventually, winter will come.”

Featured Image: HBO


Do you like hats? If you do, maybe you already contributed to The Boring Company’s ability to dig a network of underground tunnels. Since Elon Musk started selling The Boring Co. hats, featuring the logo on the front (which he once claimed was designed by director J.J. Abrams), the company has apparently sold $300,000 worth of the merch.
That’s a lot of hats: At $20 per, that’s approximately 15,000 hats sold thus far since they went on sale in October. We knew they were doing well initially, with $80,000 in sales within the first 24 hours, but momentum seems to have continued for the relatively boring unexciting covering.


Initial Hat Offering going great w over $300k in hat sales already! Thanks for buying our super boring hat. You rock, figuratively & literally. All cash goes directly towards more boring.
— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 21, 2017



Musk calling the thing an “Initial Hat Offering” is just the icing on the cake, and a clear dig at the recent fad for using initial coin offerings (ICOs) as a financing instrument among startups.
Now imagine you sold Boring Co. battery chargers, Elon. Or I dunno what’s more appropriate — maybe a tunnel digger-shaped suppository?


As virtual reality takes its trip through the hype cycle of technology adoption, I keep returning to the early days of film as a corollary for the medium’s progress and a good benchmark for its evolution.
When they first arrived on the scene, movies must have had the same thrilling and disorienting visual jolt that anyone who experiences virtual reality now receives the moment they strap on a headset.
And just as film developed from the first flickering frames of a horse’s gallop from The Horse In Motion, created by Eadweard Muybridge in 1878, so too will virtual reality evolve to encompass more ambitious storytelling.
Dispatch, a gorgeous, harrowing 24-minute experiment in narrative storytelling created by the acclaimed studio Here Be Dragons, which uses virtual reality in novel ways, may be one of the most interesting steps on the path to creating VR’s own narrative language.
The short, which debuted at the Venice Film Festival earlier this year, is now available through the Oculus store on both the Rift and the Gear. The first three episodes are available now and the fourth and final installment will be released at a later date.

Divided into four six-minute segments, Dispatch tells the story of a particularly long, particularly terrible night for one police dispatcher in an anonymous American small town.
Instead of trying to cross the uncanny valley into naturalism within virtual reality, or falling back on the tropes of gaming animation, Dispatch’s writer and director Ed Robles of Here Be Dragons decided to create a more impressionistic approach.




The talent that Robles assembled, headed up by Martin Starr, is impressive.
As Ted, Starr imbues the police dispatcher at the center of the story with pathos and provides a point of pop cultural reference that grounds the viewer.
The supporting voice work from the rest of the cast, including Julianna Guill, Graham Shiels, Beth Grant, Samuel Stricklen and Kelly Jenrette, is also impressive.
A former commercial director and storyteller, writer and director Robles specializes in virtual reality production. Robles has helped shape more than a dozen VR projects, including “Clouds Over Sidra,” Kathryn Bigelow’s “The Protectors: Walk in the Ranger’s Shoes,” “Ghost in the Shell” and “Muse: Revolt.”
Dispatch is the latest project from Here Be Dragons, the venture-backed virtual reality studio founded by Chris Milk and producer Patrick Milling-Smith, which recently raised $10 million in venture funding.

Robles first pitched the project in late November 2016 and the experience began pre-production in late January, after Oculus signed on as a financing partner, the director told me. From beginning to end, the production took nine months, a timeline that Robles called “aggressive.”
The speed of the work was in part thanks to the fact that the production was made in Unity and was entirely animated. From the beginning, Robles said that he intended to rely on the audience to fill in the visual gaps as the Dispatch narrative progressed.
For Robles, to experience what a police dispatcher undergoes nightly, it was important to remove many of the visual cues and let the audience hear the experience.
“The minimalist reductive style comes down to a single thesis,” Robles said. “If you’re a dispatcher and you’re speaking to somebody you have no idea what they look like and the sound is filling in your world view.”
That idea was also paired with Robles’ thoughts that the more detailed a subject is, the more readily an audience member is identified as an “other.”
“The less you realize that person they become anybody,” Robles said.
Beyond Robles’ choices from the directors’ chair, the movement of actors like Starr and writers to take more of an interest in VR is also something that points to the industry’s progress.
“The really good experiences I’ve seen this year that aren’t flashy and aren’t trying to bank on the flash-bang and the typical VR trappings of ‘Whoah you’re really there!’… that refinement is starting to happen,” Robles said.
Ultimately (and perhaps unsurprisingly) the Here Be Dragons creative director takes heart in the progress the medium is making.
“VR is growing at a rate that is surpassing expectations but it’s been doing so quietly,” said Robles.


Alex Wilhelm
Contributor



Alex Wilhelm is the editor-in-chief of Crunchbase News and co-host of Equity, TechCrunch's venture capital-focused podcast.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Live from Disrupt SF: Equity talks Slack, Lyft and flying cars
Understanding Roku’s IPO and its growing platform revenues



Boku, a United States-based carrier billing company, listed on the London Stock Exchange’s Alternative Investment Market (AIM) recently, selling £45 million in stock. Only about one-third of those shares were from the company, however, with the rest sourced from extant shareholders.
The flotation is interesting, given where Boku is based, how much it had previously raised and from whom and how much it is worth post-IPO.
The IPO conversation here in the Bay Area spirals around unicorns and their ability (or not) to meet their last private valuations. But that situation doesn’t apply to every company that will go public.
Let’s peek into the Boku offering to see what happened and what we might learn from it.
The flotation
Boku sold 76.2 million shares of its equity in its debut at 59 pence apiece, bringing in just under £45 million. The income was split roughly by one-third for the company, and around two-thirds for what Interactive Investor called “existing shareholders.”
Shares of Boku closed the day at 73.50 pence, up 24.6 percent. That’s a very healthy first-day pop. The company’s £125 million IPO valuation (post-money) is now worth, including a currency conversion, $206 million, give or take.
And now you can see why this is all quite interesting. What sort of company goes public when it is worth just a few hundred million? Well, as it turns out, the AIM is a place built for smaller companies to float on — not everything has to be the Big Board.
Last year, I caught up with James Clark, who works for the London Stock Exchange, to better understand why smaller companies might want to list on the AIM. Here’s what he said:

AIM, London Stock Exchange’s market for smaller, high growth companies was created to provide the optimum conditions for small and mid cap growth companies—i.e. valuations in the tens to hundreds of millions of pounds.
Because of the scale of the US exchanges, companies at this sort of valuation can struggle to cut through the noise. When they can even get onto market, we have found they can struggle to attract top tier investors, may have to offer deep discounts on their issue price, and run the very real risk of becoming so-called “orphan stocks” lacking adequate coverage from analysts.

Smaller, high-growth companies going public? Let’s look at Boku’s book to figure out how it fits the mold.
Boku by the numbers
What initially snagged our attention in all of this was the combination of San Francisco headquarters, Silicon Valley money and London IPO.
What would bring a company into that particular milieu? As it turns out, a company that is nearing a decade of life that has raised quite a lot of capital and just found new wind.
Boku, founded in 2008, according to Crunchbase, has raised nearly $90 million across rounds stretching back to 2008. Benchmark, Index and Khosla hopped in back in 2009, a16z in 2010 and New Enterprise Associates led the company’s $35 million Series D in 2012. The firm tacked on $13.75 million in late 2016.
From its filings, here’s what you need to know about the firm’s recent growth. Foregoing its TPV (payment equivalent of GMV), here’s its revenue for the last three full years for context:

2014 full-year revenue: $14.2 million.
2015 full-year revenue: $15.2 million.
2016 full-year revenue: $14.4 million.

Here are the firm’s last two half-year results:

2016 H1 revenue: $8.4 million.
2017 H1 revenue: $10.2 million.

And, the “Underlying EBIDTA” results from the same two periods:

Underlying EBIDTA H1 2016: -$7.2 million.
Underlying EBIDTA H1 2017: -$2.8 million.

What does all that mean? That after a few years of uneven results, the firm has a solid growth number in place for the first half of 2017, along with improving profitability.
Not a bad time to go public, really.
(And if you are worried that the firm could return to the negative growth that it saw before, bear in mind that this is a smaller IPO. The stakes here are smaller than when a unicorn goes public while keeping its horn.)
Smaller IPOs: so what?
Before we got underway, we stated that Boku was interesting for a few reasons, including “where Boku is based, how much it has raised and from whom and how much it is worth post-IPO.”
We can deal with that mix head-on now, and in the process, answer our just-stated, final question.
What is interesting about Boku’s headquarters is that it’s a full ocean away from its trading market. Seeing an American tech company go public on a British exchange isn’t unheard of. But I can’t recall another venture-backed, U.S.-based company going public in a similar fashion (biotech aside).
Which brings us to Boku’s fundraising. Its list of backers is a power list of Silicon Valley’s venture class, and London’s AIM helped provide liquidity to some of America’s well-known money kids.
Finally, the firm’s value at just over $200 million represents a smallish exit for a company that has raised around $90 million. But, notably, it is an exit of sorts, and one that doesn’t involve crushing the firm into a purported open niche inside a corporate giant.
Crunchbase News reached out to the London Stock Exchange concerning the Boku IPO in particular, to which the group responded:
This IPO again highlights that LSE, particularly via our growth exchange AIM, has a track record of offering small and micro cap tech companies access to high quality capital at lower cost and reduced regulatory burden relative to US public markets. It also shows VC shareholders can diversify funding for portfolio companies and often achieve partial exit through a London IPO.
Fair enough, really, given what Boku pulled off.
We don’t hear about many small or mid-cap tech IPOs here in the States, at least not at the moment. Perhaps, however, we’ll see a few more like Boku?
In that vein, we also asked about the pacing of U.S.-based companies listing across the pond. To which the LSE responded with data that implies that we’re a bit behind on the trend:

Crucially, history shows that London blue chip institutional investors are comfortable with companies with much smaller annual revenue (sub $10 million in some cases) and market caps (most AIM IPOs have market caps in the $50 million-$300 million range) than typically seen in US IPOs.
We have had about 20 North American companies from various sectors list in London this year with market caps ranging from c.$10 million up to $3 billion and have seen a significant increase in interest in the tech sector that we now have a number of US tech deals in our IPO.

We’ll be on the lookout for the next Boku. More when it lists.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Physicists at MIT have developed and released a $100 muon detector that you can build at home, allowing you to sense deep space bombardment on something that looks like a TV remote. The CosmicWatch is basically a little box that can detect high-energy cosmic rays as they hit the Earth’s atmosphere and decay into muons.
Muons hit the Earth in a “light drizzle” say the device’s creator, Spencer Axani. He and the other members of the team, Katarzyna Frankiewicz and Paweł Przewłocki of the National Centre for Nuclear Research in Warsaw as well as Janet Conrad at MIT, created an entire DIY system for building and measuring muons as they pass through the detector. You can find the DIY plans here and even download the project code on Github. It uses an Arduino Nano and a silicon photomultiplier “to detect scintillation light emitted from charged particles as they pass through the scintillator.”
Axani has attached the device to weather balloons and even sent teams of students into the Boston subway to see how drastically the count changed. They plan on sending a detector up in a suborbital rocket.
“At sea level, you might see one count every two seconds at sea level, but on a plane at cruising altitude, that rate increases by about a factor of 50 — a dramatic change,” said Axani. “From the measured rate you can back-calculate what the actual altitude of the plane was.”
You can also use this device to map through walls, allowing you to make a map of another floor simply by seeing where the muons are more prevalent.
“That’s something I’d like to try out at some point, maybe to map out the office on the floor above me,” said Axani.


ADAY, a fresh entrant in the highly competitive world of direct-to-consumer fashion, has raised $2 million in new funding for its mission to simplify wardrobes with a line of durable, technical and chic womenswear.
The company is the latest in an ever-expanding movement of startups that offer direct-to-consumer products for the fashion-conscious consumer. Venture-backed lifestyle startups like Outdoor Voices, Glossier, Allbirds, Thinx, Function of Beauty, DSTLD and Bonobos are just some that have appeared in recent times, snapping at the heels of larger e-commerce sites.
The company’s latest financing includes investment from H&M CO:LAB, H&M’s venture capital arm; ADG, a consumer tech-focused fund; and SoGal Ventures. As part of the fundraising round, Nanna Andersen, who started H&M’s venture capital arm, will join ADAY’s board.
The company’s catalog features season-less, versatile clothing that can be worn several ways. Every ADAY piece of clothing features a host of novel material properties. The clothes are all sweat-wicking, quick-drying, UV- and chlorine-protected and wrinkle-free.
While those attributes are most commonly associated with workout or “athleisure” wear, ADAY is focused on a new category of women’s ready-to-wear apparel across your entire closet.
Its capsule wardrobe concept is rooted in their seven original staples, and is built upon with pieces from their Technically Tailored collection, focusing on pieces you can wear socially or professionally, and their recently launched Multiplicity collection, focusing on pieces that can be worn multiple ways.
“Our design thinking challenge was how can we create performance, but do it in a really invisible, minimalist way to create the most beautiful staples a woman could wear,” said ADAY co-founder Nina Faulhaber.
ADAY launched in 2015 with a stated vision of matching the latest in material technologies, garment design and manufacturing with an emphasis on sustainability.

ADAY invests heavily in R&D to innovate durable, technical fabrics, features social activists as their clothing models and skips prints and bright colors, because complex fabric dying is one of the greatest environmental waste generators in the fashion industry.
Previous seed investors include Cowboy Ventures, Venrex and Truestart, as well as lifestyle entrepreneurs like the founders of Lyst, The Kooples, Deliveroo, Amorelie and Zola. Other angel investors who backed the company hail from larger companies like Bare Escentuals, Net-A-Porter, Google, Goldman Sachs and Spotify. In all, ADAY has raised $3.1 million.
While roughly 90 percent of the company’s revenue comes from online sales, ADAY is using pop-up shops to bolster their direct-to-consumer strategy in physical outlets — and plans to open a permanent location in 2018, the company said.





While smart suitcase startup Raden is inarguably a hardware company, they’ve decided to test the social waters by diving headfirst into the world of stickers.
The company is launching a sticker store in their mobile app, which lets customers order physical stickers that once delivered can be can be affixed to their suitcases. The app lets you preview what the stickers will look like on your suitcase before you order them, and the startup sees it as a “way of bringing digital stickers to life outside of a screen, but by still retrieving them in the digital world.”
Raden came up with the idea after they saw customer buying 3rd party stickers and using them to decorate their suitcases. It was a chance to facilitate the behavior that people were already taking part in, as well as reinvigorate user engagement around a product that has a pretty long life time.
Most people buy a suitcase and forget about the company or brand for the next five years until they need a new one. Raden’s sticker shop is a chance for the startup to keep a relationship with customers long past the purchase date, especially if they keep releasing new stickers and make it something where customers want to continually order more.
Users get five free stickers each time they pair a new Raden suitcase to their app, but the startup will likely soon add an option letting you buy additional ones.
In the first week live over 1,000 current Raden customers ordered stickers, and the startup also saw a jump in app downloads from people who don’t yet own a Raden but wanted to play with the sticker store. This means stickers could end up leaving to a significant source of new customers if these downloaders decide to purchase a Raden after testing the app. This makes sense – people love stickers. Just ask the chat app Line, which makes hundreds of millions of dollars a year from selling them.
Raden’s sticker store is launching with 10 sticker packs from designers and brands like Mira Mikati, Baja East and Bono’s (RED). There’s also a monogram pack which lets you customize your suitcase with your own initials.


For someone who claims to be working for the American people, FCC Chairman Ajit Pai sure doesn’t seem to care what they have to say. In his announcement today that the Commission would vote whether to roll back net neutrality rules on December 14, he made no mention of the inconvenient and embarrassing fact that his proposal had attracted historic attention, garnering over 22 million comments — the majority of which opposed it.
The statement mentions benefiting or protecting consumers five times, so clearly the idea here is to help the users of internet services. Yet those very same consumers wrote the Chairman by the millions to say that they felt the existing rules protect them very well and that to remove them would be detrimental to their safety and privacy.
Just like when their safety and privacy were put at risk by the elimination of the Broadband Privacy Rule earlier this year. Strangely enough, the Chairman didn’t listen to the outcry then, either.
The response has been so strong, in fact, that the FCC was obliged to upgrade its filing system and then extend the comment period in order to accommodate the volume of comments.
Technically the FCC is not obliged to include public commentary in its considerations when proposing rules, something Pai and other officials have repeated constantly. In fact, just this morning, during a media call, a representative of the Commission said that comments which “did not introduce new facts to the record but just stated an opinion… do not have much bearing on decisions,” which is as much as saying the positions expressed by millions do not matter.
But this would have been an excellent opportunity to address the millions of fake comments, the allegations from Congress that the Commission has mismanaged its cybersecurity, the accusations of industry favoritism, and other concerns. And of course it would have been rewarding simply to hear the Chairman acknowledge the unprecedented level of public involvement on display.
Instead, the Chairman’s statement repeats the well-worn justifications for his proposal, which range from questionable to misleading to outright wrong. (I collected the arguments and counter-arguments here.)
Pai writes that the 2015 rules have “depressed investment in building and expanding broadband networks and deterred innovation.”
In fact the numbers are far from decisive on this and many industry experts and ISPs themselves have said that the net neutrality rules had nothing to do with changes in investment — instead, they follow years-long cycles of updating infrastructure, accommodating technology changes like 5G and so on.
And even if the numbers did show a slight change, that wouldn’t constitute proof that the rules aren’t working. As several representatives who actually worked on the 1996 Telecommunications Act (under the authority of which all this is playing out) wrote:
The proposal single-mindedly concentrates on one issue to the exclusion of all others: the raw dollars spent on network deployment. This narrow focus is clearly contrary to the public interest—if we had intended network investment to be the sole measure by which the FCC determines policy, we would have specifically written that into the law.
Pai also calls the rules “failed” but cites no metric by which they could be considered to be so. Perhaps he has picked up this habit from the president.
He calls the previous lack of Title II-based net neutrality rules a “longstanding consensus.” But it was neither. In fact, net neutrality rules have been in and out of the courts since 2002, with the FCC and various industries disagreeing fundamentally on what constitutes an “information service” versus a “telecommunications service,” the dichotomy at the heart of this conflict.
The “consensus” he speaks of is the telecommunications industry putting net neutrality in a legal holding pattern for more than a decade. Notably he does not mention the current and overwhelming consensus of the American people in support of the 2015 rules.
The statement says the new rules will “simply require Internet service providers to be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them.” Other Commissioners aren’t so keen on the idea of having ISPs operate on the honor system. When I interviewed Commissioner Clyburn earlier this year she assured the audience this was a bad and rather naive idea. Not to mention that ISPs already have to report this information, and that the FCC earlier this year declined to require further disclosures regarding how subscriber information is used.
It’s not surprising that Pai and his colleagues are making so little effort to sell the proposal. The vote on December 14 is a fait accompli, all but guaranteed by the current partisan makeup of the Commission: three Republicans in favor, two Democrats deeply opposed. Ironically, Pai has repeatedly criticized the 2015 order for having been established by a “party-line vote,” but fails to mention that his proposal will be enacted in exactly the same way. This little hypocrisy barely registers compared with the magnitude of its peers, but it’s worth mentioning.
Lastly, Chairman Pai crows about releasing the draft version of “Restoring Internet Freedom” to “the American people” three weeks before the vote, a change in process he has never tired of touting.
But it’s unclear what he expects “the American people” to do with it. Comment on it? Millions already did, and he has ignored them.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Overclock Labs wants to make it easier for developers to deploy and manage their applications across clouds. To do so, the company is building tools to automate distributed cloud infrastructure and, unsurprisingly, it is betting on containers — and specifically the Kubernetes container orchestration tools — to do this.
Today, Overclock Labs, which was founded two years ago, is coming out of stealth and announcing that it raised a $1.3 million seed round from a number of Silicon Valley angel investors and CrunchFund — the fund that shares a bit of its name and history with TechCrunch but is otherwise completely unaffiliated with the blog you are currently reading.
So far, the company used this previously undisclosed funding round to develop DISCO, which stands for Decentralized Infrastructure for Serverless Computing Operations. You may see the word “serverless” in there and think: so this is like an event-driven service like AWS Lambda or Azure Functions? And nobody would blame you for thinking that, but as Overclock Labs co-founders Greg Osuri (CEO) and Greg Gopman (COO) told me, in their view, the goal of “serverless” is about being fully automated (the company’s third co-founder is Adam Bozanich). Lambda does this at the real-time level for event-driven applications, but DISCO, which is going to be open source, aims to offer support for a wider range of applications.
The general idea here, Osuri told me, is to build a platform that allows you to work with any cloud service provider and allows you to easily move between clouds. The developer experience, he said, should be somewhat like using Heroku and the team is building both a graphical interface as well as a smart command-line tool for the service.
For now, the tool supports AWS, the Google Cloud Platform and bare-metal specialist Packet, but the team tells me that it expects to support other clouds in the near future. Because DISCO is open source, others can also easily build their own integrations.
To deploy applications with DISCO, developers can choose two routes: If they are building according to the 12-factor app philosophy, then DISCO can simply take the source code and deploy the app for them, or they can simply build their own containers and hand them over to DISCO for deployment. The system then handles the container registry and manages the containers for them.

The promise of DISCO is that it will make deploying applications as easy as using a service like Heroku, but for maybe a third of the cost. Osuri and Gopman previously built AngelHack together and have extensive experience in building open-source tools and working inside open-source ecosystems. It’s no surprise, then, that they plan to open source the DISCO tool and then build premium services on top of that.
What exactly these premium services will look like remains to be seen, but the first order of business for the company is now to release DISCO within the next few months and then build an ecosystem around it.
That’s easier said than done, especially in an age where it can feel like a new high-profile open-source project launches daily, but the founders are quite realistic about what the process will look like. They also admitted that they don’t expect to be the only players in this space — with Kubernetes, the basic building blocks for this automated infrastructure are available to anybody, after all (and with AWS re:Invent around the corner, I’m sure we’ll hear from other competitors in the next week or two). They do, however, think they are launching early enough to become one of the bigger players.



French startup Blade, the company behind Shadow, announced at a press conference that it is launching new offers, updating specifications and the ability to become a client and buy a subscription without any waiting list.
Shadow is a gaming PC in the cloud for a monthly fee. The company has been running thousands of computers with an Intel Xeon processor and an Nvidia GTX 1070 in a data center near Paris. You can then play demanding PC games on a crappy laptop, on a TV thanks to Shadow’s own little device (pictured above), on an Android phone and more.
Let’s start with the new specifications. “The next-generation Shadow is more powerful. When we started Shadow, we said obsolescence would be a thing of the past,” co-founder and CEO Emmanuel Freund said. “That’s what we want to prove today.”
Existing Shadow instances will be updated and have 8.2 teraflops of computing power compared to 6.5 teraflops with the previous configuration. The company says it is the equivalent of a $1,900 computer (€1,600).






When David Legrand from Next INpact asked about the new GPU, Freund didn’t want to name the exact model. From what I’ve heard, it’ll be a mix of GeForce GTX 1080 and Quadro P5000 at first. Nvidia doesn’t recommend using consumer cards in servers because they’re not meant to be running 24/7. At the same time, professional cards are more expensive.
But it’s clear that Nvidia wants Shadow to switch to server-grade GPUs in the near future — Quadro P5000 and GeForce GTX 1080 should be more or less as powerful. When it comes to CPU, Shadow currently uses Intel Xeon 2620 processors.
While there are already thousands of clients, Shadow has been very slowly rolling out its service. There’s now a huge waiting list of people waiting for the next batch of instances. Starting on November 29, you’ll be able to subscribe instantly.
The company is opening two new data centers — one in France for the company’s home countries and neighbouring countries, and another data center in Santa Clara. Shadow has signed a partnership with Equinix, and 2CRSI is manufacturing custom servers for Shadow with four GPUs per server.
A Shadow account will cost $53 per month, or $41 per month with a three-month commitment, or $35 if you’re willing to pay for a year (€44.95/€34.95/€29.95). Those prices aren’t changing, but there are two major changes — you get a beefier computer and you don’t get Shadow’s own device by default.
Now, you can pay $140 or $9 per month (€119.95/€7.95) to receive Shadow’s bridge computer. It is a good way to use your Shadow on your TV for instance. But if you only plan on using Shadow with your existing computer with Shadow’s apps, you don’t have to pay for this option anymore.
In addition to that, Shadow is launching a second version of its app called Shadow Beyond. “On an Android phone or a TV, you rarely use a keyboard and a mouse to browse Windows,” Freund said. So the company is launching a sort of media center interface to access your content. You’ll be able to launch games, movies, photos, music and files.
Freund reiterated that the company wants to attract 100,000 customers by the end of 2018. In order to do this, Shadow has added adaptive streaming to its streaming clients. When you stream a video on YouTube, your browser automatically switches from 480p to 1080p if you have enough bandwidth, and sticks to 480p if you don’t have a fast connection.
Shadow is using a similar technique to downgrade image quality if you’re using a DSL connection with only 15Mb/s. “15 million homes [in France] can now use Shadow instead of 5 million homes,” Freund said.
Back in June, the company raised a Series A round of $57.1 million (€51 million). Many companies are working on computer instances in the cloud, such as Nvidia with GeForce Now and Amazon with WorkSpaces.
Shadow is focusing on gamers first as they’re demanding clients when it comes to latency and service quality. The company hopes that this narrow focus will help them improve the service and attract more clients in the future beyond gamers.


When the Amazon Echo Show first debuted, it included a YouTube feature, as is right and proper for a device with a screen capable of playing video and connecting to the internet. But Google quickly nixed the Echo Show YouTube player, since it was a non-standard presentation of the company’s stuff which did not comply with their terms of use.
Now, YouTube is back on Echo Show (via Voicebot), and it looks a heck of a lot different. It now much more closely resembles what you’d expect to find when browsing YouTube on the web or on a tablet, and the new look is clearly intended to bring the YouTube app on Echo Show in compliance with the requirements set forth for its use by Google and YouTube.
The original look was probably better suited to a device that’s designed to be used primarily via voice, but the new one feels more like the YouTube people know and love, so it’s a bit of a mixed bag. Still, it’s good that it’s back – the Echo Show was born for YouTube, as an idle time consumption device that likely often lives atop kitchen counters.
Amazon Echo Show now also offers Vimeo and Dailymotion video access, the company notes. A spokesperson provided the following statement:

We’re excited to offer customers the capability to watch even more video content from sources such as Vimeo, YouTube, and Dailymotion on Echo Show. More video sources will be added over time. 


Candid, the dental startup that aims to straighten your teeth for less than the cost of braces and Invisalign, recently raised a $15 million Series A round led by Greycroft Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners, e.ventures and some existing investors.
The plan is to use the funding to beef up Candid’s operations and grow its customer base, the company said in a press release.
“Candid Co.’s vision is to use technology to bring access to high quality orthodontic services to more people in the convenience and comfort of their own home,” Greycroft partner John Elton said in a press release. “Greycroft is excited to partner with the exceptional Candid Co. team to bring their positive mission to life.”
Candid, which 3D prints its FDA-approved aligners, is designed for people who need mild to moderate orthodontic work. It costs $1,900 upfront or $88 per month over two years, while braces can cost up to $7,000 and Invisalign can cost up to $8,000.
Candid had previously raised a $2 million seed round led by Arena Ventures. In total, Candid has raised $17 million in venture funding.


No doubt hoping to get a jump on that holiday traffic, Nintendo’s latest mobile opus, Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp has hit iOS and Android a day ahead of schedule. The latest installment of one of the game company’s most adorable franchises was first announced this time last month. 
In spite of some skepticism, early looks at the title were complimentary, noting that the title does appear to be more loyal to the console versions of the series than other recent mobile titles like Super Mario Run.
And, unlike Mario, the new game is free to play — it seems that, in spite of what appeared to be healthy download numbers, the company ultimately wasn’t happy with its return on investment with the side scroller. This time out, Nintendo will be making money on in-app purchases, via “leaf tickets” that let users unlock items.

That sort of incentive may push Nintendo to invest more in continued support of the game, offering up more experiences well after today’s launch. From a cursory look, however, it’s already one of the richest experiences Nintendo’s offered up on mobile so far, with camping-themed gameplay that closely mirrors its predecessor. There’s plenty of room for world building, too, if you pony up the aforementioned leaf tickets. 
A number of eager users have reported server errors attempting to download the title, but for what it’s worth, I was able to get the game right away, as evidenced by the above screenshot. So, I’ll be enjoying the great outdoors from the comfort of my iPhone. 


Gamevice is a bit like way to turn your iPhone or iPad into a Switch, at least in terms of adding physical controls to your gaming experience. But now the add-on can go beyond gaming, offering a way to easily control the DJI Spark with added precision and improved ergonomics when compared to just using a touchscreen device on its own.
This is actually great news for Spark owners, since the diminutive drone has a lot going for it, including relative affordability, and decent picture quality. But the one thing it’s lacking that the rest of the DJI lineup boasts is a solid physical controller experience included in the box – the Gamevice provides that, with a design that’s actually superior to the official DJI controller in a number of ways.
You plug your phone or tablet into the Gamevice directly via Lightning connector, and the physical controls reside on either side. There’s a full complement of buttons that allow you to control all aspects of the drone, including flight and photo and video capture.
In addition to Spark support, the Gamevice now works with Sphero’s SPRK+ programmable robot. If you’ve ever used a Sphero spherical bot, you might already be aware that physical controls easily trump the onscreen touch sensitive variety.
Gamevice starts at $59.99, and also still supports a range of games including Minecraft’s mobile iteration. If you’re a Spark fan, it’s definitely worth a look, since it basically addresses one of the only weaknesses of the DJI drone without requiring a significant financial investment.


Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai today made good on his long-standing pledge to tackle regulations established in the last administration designed to protect the distribution of internet content.
On Tuesday, Pai distributed to the other commissioners at the FCC a draft of his suggested rule changes under the auspices of the “Restoring Internet Freedom Order.”
The move sets up a December 14 vote at the FCC that could have broad ramifications for the entire internet. Under the rules established by the Obama administration, internet providers are required to provide open access to their networks for all digital content.
The new rules would give network providers like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon (which owns Oath, which owns TechCrunch), sweeping new power to throttle distribution of certain content… and conversely charge more for better access. In the new order, Pai argues that such providers don’t “transmit” data, and thus do not fall under the FCC’s authority — a view of the internet’s infrastructure that few experts agree with.
Pai has argued that the regulations imposed by the Obama administration “depressed investment in building and expanding broadband networks and deterred innovation.” The truth of this assertion has been roundly questioned by experts and lawmakers, who also have pointed out that it is an extremely narrow metric by which to measure the success of the existing rules.
The new rules would only require that internet providers “be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them and entrepreneurs and other small businesses can have the technical information they need to innovate.”
Additional regulatory oversight would be handed over to the Federal Trade Commission under Pai’s new rulemaking, which had authority over some of these matters before the 2015 order.
“Notably, my proposal will put the federal government’s most experienced privacy cop, the FTC, back on the beat to protect consumers’ online privacy,” Pai wrote. The FTC, however, is unable to write strong, preemptive net neutrality rules like those in the 2015 order.
No mention was made of the historic numbers of comments filed on the new order, the vast majority of which supported existing net neutrality rules.
Net neutrality prevents internet service providers from prioritizing data for businesses and other organizations that they favor or that pay more. The rules keep the internet open, free and unrestricted, preventing ISPs from becoming gatekeepers that can control and manipulate what people access on the internet.
“Internet rights are civil rights,” said Jay Stanley, American Civil Liberties Union senior policy analyst. “Gutting net neutrality will have a devastating effect on free speech online. Without it, gateway corporations like Comcast, Verizon, and AT&T will have too much power to mess with the free flow of information.”
Ronald Newman, ACLU director of strategic initiatives, said, “In a world without net neutrality, activists may lose an essential platform to organize and fight for change, and small organizations may never get a fair shot to grow and thrive. Congress must stop Chairman Pai’s plan in its tracks and ensure that net neutrality remains the law of the land.”
“Today the FCC has threatened to end the internet as we know it,” said Senator Michael Schatz (D-HI). “If adopted, the FCC’s plan will change the way every American gets information, watches movies, listens to music, conducts business, and talks to their families. By repealing basic net neutrality protections, the FCC is handing over full control of the internet to providers, leaving the American people with fewer choices and less access.”
Here’s the full statement below:

For almost twenty years, the Internet thrived under the light-touch regulatory approach established by President Clinton and a Republican Congress. This bipartisan framework led the private sector to invest $1.5 trillion building communications networks throughout the United States. And it gave us an Internet economy that became the envy of the world.
But in 2015, the prior FCC bowed to pressure from President Obama. On a party-line vote, it imposed heavy-handed, utility-style regulations upon the Internet. That decision was a mistake. It’s depressed investment in building and expanding broadband networks and deterred innovation.
Today, I have shared with my colleagues a draft order that would abandon this failed approach and return to the longstanding consensus that served consumers well for decades. Under my proposal, the federal government will stop micromanaging the Internet. Instead, the FCC would simply require Internet service providers to be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them and entrepreneurs and other small businesses can have the technical information they need to innovate.
Additionally, as a result of my proposal, the Federal Trade Commission will once again be able to police ISPs, protect consumers, and promote competition, just as it did before 2015. Notably, my proposal will put the federal government’s most experienced privacy cop, the FTC, back on the beat to protect consumers’ online privacy.
Speaking of transparency, when the prior FCC adopted President Obama’s heavy-handed Internet regulations, it refused to let the American people see that plan until weeks after the FCC’s vote. This time, it’ll be different. Specifically, I will publicly release my proposal to restore Internet freedom tomorrow—more than three weeks before the Commission’s December 14 vote.
Working with my colleagues, I look forward to returning to the light-touch, market-based framework that unleashed the digital revolution and benefited consumers here and around the world.

For a counterpoint to Pai’s puffery, check out this piece from John Oliver:

This story is still developing…. 

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin / TechCrunch


Google’s YouTube TV app has received a recent update that allows for picture-in-picture on Android phones running Nougat or Oreo.
Google first announced YouTube TV back in February, and rolled the service out in April, launching in five major U.S. cities. YouTube TV is meant to kill the cable box, offering popular cable channels like ABC, Fox, CBS, CW, NBC, Disney, ESPN and 40+ more for just $35/month. The channels are available live on up to six accounts with three devices streaming simultaneously.
Since launch, Google has expanded the service to now be available to 50 percent of U.S. households, with a dedicated app for smart TVs, gaming consoles and streaming devices.
Considering that picture-in-picture is one of the staple features of Android 8.0, it only makes sense that PIP would come to YouTube TV.
The feature is simple to use. If you press the home button while a program is playing, the player window will shrink and pop out to let you do other things. While using PIP, there are still controls for rewind, fast-forward, pausing and returning to full screen.
Folks who aren’t interested in PIP can disable the feature within the settings menu of the app.
[via Android Police]


A company called Confido raised a small ICO by selling special CFD designed to allow “safe and trustless cryptocurrency payments. According to ICODrops they raised their goal of about $400,000 and quickly disappeared, taking the cash with it. The site is currently a parked web server that points to nothing.
The apparent founder and former eBay employee, Joost van Doorn, posted a message to a Confido Reddit board claiming that “We are in a tight spot, as we are having legal trouble caused by a contract we signed. We signed the contract with assurance from our legal advisor that there was minimal risk and it would not be an issue. I can’t and won’t go into details, but he was wrong. It is a problem.”

According to the Reddit coordinator for the ICO, the move “is completely out of character” for Joost.
“There is potential that the removal of everything was due to the legal situation that they are facing, which is possible as I got the feeling that the situation was dire. I don’t agree with this course of action however, as it has left the entire community, and myself, in the dark,” he wrote.
The ICOs or token sales are red hot right now but I’ve spoken to a number of founders who are dealing with the same legal troubles – albeit in far less drastic ways – and who are eschewing the process entirely due to legal, logistical, and security issues. Given the amounts of cryptocurrency involved and the multiple moving parts including legal cover, white paper production, and monetary management, it’s a wonder more token sales don’t flame out like this one.
As of today there is no way to contact the founding team. The tokens rose to a price of about $1 before crashing back to a penny.
“These were very good scammers,” Eli Lewitt, co-founder of TokenLot, told Motherboard.
UPDATE – Kraft & Wurgaft write they they do not have any of the wayward coins:
“Our firm provides escrow services for TokenLot.com, a company which hosted the Confido ICO. The services we provide include maintaining funds received from ICO investors until the Tokens are distributed by the issuing company. Once we receive confirmation that the Tokens have been distributed, we release the funds received to TokenLot.com for distribution to the Company selling the Tokens. Thus, once the Token sale is complete, we no longer maintain a wallet or hold any funds related to the sale. We furthermore have no direct involvement with the issuing company, i.e. Confido, as our client is TokenLot.com.”


Google.org is donating $7.5 million to racial justice organizations Vera Institute for Justice, LatinoJustice, The Leadership Conference and R Street’s Justice for Work Coalition. This brings Google.org’s total amount of funding to racial justice organizations to $32 million since 2015.
Google.org’s racial justice portfolio arc has focused on what Justin Steele, principal at Google.org, calls the three Ps: policing, prosecution and prisons.
“We’re thinking about bringing more transparency to racial disparities about those three systems,” Steele told TechCrunch.
The largest grant in this batch went to Vera Institute for Justice, which received $4 million from Google.org. Vera is committed to securing equal justice, ending mass incarceration and strengthening families and communities. The grant money should help Vera build a data set to help researchers better measure the economic impact of incarceration rates in rural areas.
“Counter to the narrative that exists nationally around incarceration being an urban, big city program, incarceration in cities is declining but in rural communities it’s increasing,” Steele told me.
With LatinoJustice, Goolge.org donated $1 million to improve the quality of data around incarcerated Latinx people. Often times, Latinx people are misclassified or not classified at all, Steele said. There also are several states that don’t have categories for Latinx groups.
“We’re committed to expanding the mass incarceration conversation beyond white and black,” Steele said.
Google.org plans to continue supporting racial justice efforts for the foreseeable future, Steele said. The organization, which has completed its budget planning for 2018, has allocated resources to continue doing this work.
“As we pivot toward the solutions phase, we’re thinking about how we can support more work and spur some innovations and alternatives to incarceration in the field,” Steele said. “Now that we have a pretty robust portfolio, how can we use our convening power to promote conversations in the field. A lot of times, corporate philanthropy programs tend to be short-lived but this has good staying power mostly in part because Google employees are on board.”
For example, a group of 10 Google engineers and data scientists participated in a six-week, full-time volunteer program with the Center for Policing Equity. The volunteer immersion came following Google.org’s $5 million grant to the CPE in February.
You can learn more about Google.org’s racial justice efforts here.

Featured Image: Google.org


Monzo, one of a number of “challenger” banks in the U.K. aiming to re-invent the current account, is assembling quite an array of backers, many with a U.S. bent.
Its most recent round, which gave the startup a £280 million post-money valuation, saw the likes of Goodwater Capital, Stripe, and Michael Moritz invest, and before that Thrive Capital became a backer. Now TechCrunch has learned that we can add Instagram co-founder Kevin Systrom to the list of U.S. investors.
A recent regulatory filing lists Systrom as a Monzo shareholder via his ‘Kevin Systrom Revocable Trust’. Interestingly, the same filing confirms our earlier, albeit tentative, scoop that British singer-songwriter Tom Odell has also invested in the bank. I understand that both investments were part of Monzo’s Series C round in February.
“We’re very happy Kevin Systrom is supporting Monzo as an investor and we’re excited to have him on board,” said a Monzo spokesperson confirming that Systrom is a backer.
Meanwhile, that Monzo seems to be taking a significant portion of its capital from U.S. investors shouldn’t be too much of a surprise. The challenger bank’s CEO and co-founder Tom Blomfield has made no secret that he has mid-term ambitions to bring Monzo to the U.S., a market that he sees as at least if not more attractive than simply ‘passporting’ the bank to other European countries.
“America’s more attractive because there are 300-odd million people, and their banks are really, really bad, they speak the same language, and they broadly have the same service providers,” he told me on-stage at Startup Grind London last week.
In contrast, Blomfield says that Europe is more fragmented in language and consumer banking culture, and has many different providers in each country, something he reckon’s makes Monzo’s marketplace banking model a little more challenging.
Having been through Y Combinator with his previous startup GoCardless and after spending time working at a dating startup in the U.S., it is also clear the Monzo co-founder looks to U.S. consumer tech companies, such as Instagram and Facebook, for both product and marketing/growth inspiration, rather than the legacy banking industry. Having Systrom as an investor will no doubt help with that.

Featured Image: David M. Benett/Getty Images


In October, Sonos launched the Sonos One, raising the bar on what is already the gold standard in wireless whole-home audio. The big new feature? An integrated microphone that added support for Amazon’s Alexa.
However, there was one big caveat: While Alexa was integrated to control music services like Apple Music, Google Play Music, Soundcloud and others, it was missing a major player in the form of Spotify.
That’s not to say that Sonos users couldn’t listen to Spotify at all — once you started playing Spotify music from your iPhone or desktop, you could then skip tracks and change the volume with Alexa.
But part of the beauty of Alexa integration is the ability to simply ask for the music of your choice out of thin air.
Today, Sonos has rectified the situation, the Verge confirms. Now, Sonos One users can ask Alexa to play their custom playlists, Discover Weekly, or any other music mix that Spotify might offer.


Grindr is updating its popular queer dating app to be more inclusive of transgender and non-binary users. In an announcement timed to mark the end of Transgender Awareness Week, Grindr said changes will include new profile fields for gender identity and the use of gender-neutral language throughout its app and website.
While planning the updates, Grindr surveyed transgender users and consulted with the National Center for Transgender Equality, an advocacy group. The app currently claims three million daily active users, which it says makes it the most popular mobile queer social network.
Grindr’s new identity section lets users fill out their own gender identity or pick from a list that includes “trans man,” “woman,” “cis man,” “non-binary,” “non-conforming” and “queer.” Users can also select or write in what pronouns they prefer to use.












The company also published a FAQ with information about gender identity and advice on how to interact respectfully with transgender and non-binary people.
In a statement, director of Grindr for Equality Jack Harrison-Quintana said the FAQ was written after the company got feedback from users who were tired of constantly fielding questions on the app.
“One thing we heard over and over again from trans people using Grindr was that they felt unwelcome as other users would often only want to ask them about what it means to be trans or approached without knowing how to speak respectfully about trans issues,” said Harrison-Quintana. “That’s why we created written resources linked from the gender identity fields in the profile to answer users’ questions and decrease that burden on trans people.”

Featured Image: Leon Neal/Getty Images


An investigation by Quartz has revealed that Android devices send cell tower location data to Google even if the user has disabled location services for apps in their device settings.
Quartz also said it observed location data being sent even if devices had been reset to factory default settings. Android devices with a cellular data or a wi-fi connection were seen to send the data to Google each time they came within range of a new cell tower — including devices with no SIM cards installed (these offloaded the location data via wi-fi, where available).
It says there is currently no way for Android users to prevent their location data from being sent to ad targeting giant Google — short of removing SIMs from their devices and disabling wi-fi (or else leaving the devices inside a faraday cage).
After raising its findings with Google, Quartz reports that a company spokesperson told it the cell tower location data harvesting has been going on for the past 11 months, and that cell tower addresses were included in information sent to the system it uses to manage push notifications and messages on Android devices.
The spokesperson further claimed the location data was never used or stored. And Google added that it intends to end the practice by the end of November, having had the location tracking issue flagged to it by Quartz.
“In January of this year, we began looking into using Cell ID codes as an additional signal to further improve the speed and performance of message delivery,” the Google spokesperson said. “However, we never incorporated Cell ID into our network sync system, so that data was immediately discarded, and we updated it to no longer request Cell ID.”
Whatever the reason Google was experimenting with harvesting Android users’ location info, it’s another troubling instance of the company slurping up sensitive user data without making people explicitly aware it’s doing so — let alone giving users controls to opt out of another major invasion of their privacy.
Back in October, for example, a number of Google Home Mini devices were shown to have malfunctioned and been persistently recording audio in the background in their owners’ homes, instead of only waking up when a specific trigger word was used.
After that snafu gained press attention, Google said it would remove the touch top function on the device — blaming that hardware for a malfunction that had triggered near continuous recording of users’ domestic goings on. As it’s now blaming engineering experimentation for Android covertly harvesting location data.
Location data is highly sensitive personal data from which much can be inferred about a person’s life and lifestyle, especially given the rule for mobile devices is to accompany the user wherever they go. And while cell tower location data isn’t necessarily hugely precise, triangulation of multiple cell towers can be used to calculate a more exact location.
So even if message speed and performance could be enhanced by the Android OS knowing a user’s cell tower location, Google should at least be asking people to opt in to that location-tracking enhancement and/or providing them with a way to opt out.
Google’s privacy policy does include the following section on “location information” (below) which states that users of “Google services” may have their location data collected, including cell tower data — though the linked examples Google uses refer to specific Google apps, like Google Maps, rather than to the Android OS itself; while the linked example on wi-fi access points and cell towers talks only in terms of location data being collected for users who have enabled Google’s Location Services (not persistently, because you are using the Android OS):
When you use Google services, we may collect and process information about your actual location. We use various technologies to determine location, including IP address, GPS, and other sensors that may, for example, provide Google with information on nearby devices, Wi-Fi access points and cell towers.
According to Quartz’s findings, the location tracking did not appear limited to particular Android phones or tablets. It says Google was apparently collecting cell tower data from all modern Android devices.
It further cites a source familiar with the matter specifying that the cell tower addresses were being sent to Google after an early 2017 change to the Firebase Cloud Messaging service that’s owned by Google and runs on Android phones by default.
While this is notable as an instance of Google itself, Android’s platform controller, apparently caught covertly tracking users’ location via the OS, this time last year a range of budget Android smartphones sold in the US were found to be secretly sending personal data to a third party company based in China — including information about users’ locations.
Albeit in that case the culprit was commercial firmware pre-installed on the devices, rather than the Android OS itself, as here.


Dabbl is giving users a straightforward reason to interact with ads — the ads earn them money in the form of gift cards.
For example, when I signed up for Dabbl this morning, I was presented with a menu of several different campaigns. The first one that I chose was from Oreo, where I answered a bunch of questions about how I feel and what I know about Oreo products. The whole thing took about 30 seconds, and I earned 30 cents towards a gift card from businesses like AMC and Bed Bath & Beyond.
There are other companies rewarding users for watching ads, whether that’s on their smartphone lockscreen or in games. But founder and CEO Susan O’Neal told me she avoids describing Dabbl’s approach as a “reward,” because “having your time and opinion tangibly valued feels more gratifying than a reward or another kind of gimmick.”
“Media companies are compensated for delivering impressions which are supposed to represent consumer attention, whereas our users are compensated for their attention,” O’Neal said via email.
In addition, she noted that users engage with Dabble campaigns “at a time that is convenient to them,” not when they’re trying to watch another video or play a game. And the campaigns are really about active engagement, for example asking users to watch a video and answer questions about what resonated with them.

“Because there isn’t any incentive to answer randomly, we’ve found that most people answer honestly,” O’Neal said — which in turn improves the connection to the brand. Dabbl says the average campaign sees 23 seconds of active attention from each consumer.
The campaigns that I saw promised to pay between 25 and 50 cents, but O’Neal said the company is still collecting data to improve the pricing model.
Formerly known as Adjoy, Dabbl launched a customizable version of the platform for partners back in August, and it’s currently powering ShopRite’s Downtime Dollars program. Today, it’s launching its a direct-to-consumer Dabbl app, and a self-service campaign manager for brands to promote themselves through the app.
Dabbl is currently available on Android and the web, with plans to launch on iOS in the future..

Featured Image: Mix3r/Shutterstock


If hardware is hard, rockets must be even harder. Natalya Bailey should know. She’s the co-founder and CEO of Accion Systems, a startup spun out of MIT’s Space Propulsion Laboratory that is developing a new type of propulsion for spacecraft. Today we’re announcing she’ll take the Disrupt Berlin stage along with Shasta Ventures founder and managing director Rob Coneybeer.
General admission tickets are available at early bird pricing, too, in case, you know, you want to attend the 2-day event and see this talk in person.
Bailey and her co-founder Louis Perna founded Accion System in 2014 in an attempt to commercialize the propulsion technology they developed at MIT. In 2015 they demonstrated it working for the first time in space. But this propulsion system isn’t a rocket engine the size of a Tesla semi. The system Accion is building is the size of a quarter and designed for micro-satellites.
The company is now several years old and raised a total of $12.5M with Coneybeer’s Shasta Ventures leading Accion System’s Series A in May 2016. We’re excited to have the pair. Together they represent an interesting cross-section of practical science meets startups and we’ll be sure to inquire on advice other entrepreneurs can use to build companies and products for outer space.
Throughout Disrupt Berlin attendees will hear about the latest technology and how it can make an impact on businesses. The show is jam-packed, and just like every Disrupt, the focus is on startups and the bleeding edge of technology. Fifteen startups are launching in Startup Battlefield and hundreds of young companies are exhibiting in Startup Alley. And though spots are limited, every Disrupt attendee can participate CrunchMatch, a free program that connects founders and investors based on their specific criteria, goals and interests.
General admission tickets are still available. We hope to see you at the show. This is the second Disrupt we’ve held in Berlin and we’re excited to be back. The area’s startup scene is bursting with new startups and investors. We couldn’t stay away any longer.


PayPal and Facebook are expanding their integrations today with the launch of an extension for Messenger that allows PayPal sellers to invoice buyers directly through private messaging. The feature is ideal for use with Facebook’s numerous Buy and Sell groups as well as Facebook Marketplace, in addition to being an easy way to send PayPal invoices in general.
The launch comes on the heels of last month’s debut of person-to-person PayPal payments in Messenger, and the arrival of PayPal’s first customer service Messenger bot for handling customer questions and requests for help.
The two companies had been working closely together prior to that, too, including through a partnership announced last year that allowed U.S. customers to shop online merchants via their Messenger bots, then transact in the app via PayPal.
This time, the focus is on shifting small business transactions and those between buyers and sellers into Messenger.

The new PayPal chat extension allows a seller to create and send their invoice without leaving the their conversation, so the buyer can act on it immediately. To use the extension, sellers open the extension tray in Messenger, select PayPal, then create a simple invoice by filling in details like item name, description, price and quantity. The invoice can also include a photo.
When the buyer receives the invoice, they just press “Pay with PayPal” to complete the transaction. If they’re signed into OneTouch, they can checkout without having to re-authenticate with their password.
Like other PayPal transactions, those taking place over Messenger are covered by PayPal Purchase Protection for Buyers – meaning, when the invoice is issued and paid, buyers are protected.
PayPal says the Messenger integration is only one of other partnerships it has planned to help make commerce easier wherever transactions are occurring, but doesn’t have any other deals it’s preparing to announce at this time.



SI_Entry Screen




SI_invoice creation




SI_Invoice posted to messenger




SI_invoice review




SI_post to messenger








The launch could have a notable impact on how business is done on Facebook. The social network said last fall that its Buy and Sell groups were visited by some 450 million people monthly; and Messenger today has 1.3 billion monthly users. Meanwhile, Facebook has recently been expanding its investment in Marketplace, having just added dedicated sections for cars and housing rentals, in an effort to better compete with Craigslist.
At the time, the company said search volume in Marketplace had grown 3X globally since the start of 2017, with 18 million listings being added in the U.S. alone in May. There was also 77 percent growth in unique conversations between buyers and sellers over the first half of this year, Facebook noted.
That leaves room for a product like PayPal’s to aid with transactions, given Facebook’s lack of interest in building out a payments business itself.


Hybrid smartwatches are a weird category right now. No one’s really mastered the perfect balance between the smart and dumb, though a handful of products have done a decent job, most notably Withings/Nokia’s Steel/Steel HR line. Fossil-owned wearables company Misfit has made some valiant efforts, as well, including the Phase — though the model was a bit of a mixed bag. 
The Command is really the direct successor to that line (though the Phase is still around at a reduced price, for what it’s worth). It’s got the same standard array of features, including basic fitness tracking, smartphone notifications and a “smart button” that can do things like trigger a picture or music playback on a connected phone. 
The device also attempts to correct some of its biggest issues. The new watch is thinner than its predecessor (though, it’s still kind of big) and features a new mode to attempt to get around the whole problem of offering up notifications without a display.

With the Phase, the company offered up a small circle on the bottom of the watch face that changed colors based on the kind of notification that was coming through. It was nice though, but in practice, it was a pain in the butt trying to remember all of those arbitrary associations. 
To address this, the Command features a subeye mini-face similar to what Nokia has on its watches. On the left side is a progress bar that uses the small hand to show how close you are toward achieving your daily step goal. On the right are a number of small icons associated with different functions. It’s still not perfect, but it seems to be a positive step away from the Phase’s inscrutability.

The design’s not bad either, though it’s a bit more brutalist than the Phase. It’s big and industrial and metallic, with a face that has a bit of a maritime aesthetic. It’s pretty good-looking for a hybrid smartwatch, though. The Command runs on the same standard watch battery as its predecessor, which should last up to a year. 
It’s up for pre-order starting today at $150. It will start shipping on the 28th. 


If every company is truly a software company, Capital One is out to the prove it. It was one of the early users of Critical Stack, a tool designed to help build security into the container orchestration process. In fact, it liked it so much it bought the company in 2016, and today it’s releasing Critical Stack in Beta.
This is a critical step toward becoming a commercial product, giving the bank its first entrée into software selling.
Capital One is embracing modern applications delivery methods like containerization, and it needed a tool specifically tuned to the security requirements of a financial services company. That’s what Critical Stack purports to give it, and they liked it so much, they thought others who required a similar level of security would too.
Critical Stack is compatible with Kubernetes, the popular container orchestration tool, but it’s been designed to provide a higher level of security than the base product, while giving large institutions like banks a packaged approach to container orchestration.
“One of the many strengths of Kubernetes is its rapid development cycle. You understand how challenging that can be to keep up with that moving target. We have an orchestration layer that has an abstraction away from that. Critical Stack is a stand-alone tool within the ecosystem of tools compatible with Kubernetes,” Liam Randall, Critical Stack president and co-founder told TechCrunch.
Critical Stack does everything you would expect a Kubernetes distribution to do including managing the container delivery and lifecycle management, but it’s specifically designed to allow operations to automate security and compliance policies around the containers, something banks and other highly regulated businesses need to do.
The company also concentrated on putting that kind of functionality in an interface that’s easy to use.
Photo: Critical Stack
While the company isn’t open sourcing this tool, they believe by selling it, they can get a similar set of benefits. “When you think about a lot of the great platforms, the best lessons learned come from working with other partners,” Randall said. While he and his team found a broad set of use cases internally, they felt that getting the product into the hands of others would only help enhance it — and it doesn’t hurt they could make some money doing it.

Featured Image: Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images


Toyota has a new, third-generation humanoid robot bears the charming name “T-HR3” and is designed to be a helpful and safe assistant to humans. It also features a so-called “master maneuvering systems,” which is essentially a VR-powered remote operating platform that a human can use to have the T-HR3 mirror its movements. Yes, kind of like a jaeger from kaiju movie Pacific Rim.
The T-HR3 is designed to work in an assistant capacity to humans across a range of different potential uses, including in-home care, at hospitals, on construction sites, in areas impacted by disaster and even, Toyota says, in the far reaches of outer space. The robot resembles a somewhat short person with long arms and smooth white panels covering its mechanical bits, with optical sensors but into the head.
An operator in the Master Maneuvering System has both arm and leg coverings that will convey their movements to the robot, allowing the operator to use a full range of motion to walk in place, manipulate arms and even grip with direct translation of their natural actions. The operator can also see from the robot’s perspective, thanks to a head-mounted display (an HTC Vive, in the video) they wear.



20171121_03_03_s




20171121_03_02_s




20171121_03_01








The synced up movement also has safeguards in place to ensure that the robot’s movements don’t interfere with the operator, so that you can’t accidentally (or intentionally, I guess) club yourself with the bot while sitting in the chair.
Remotely operated, dexterous humanoid robots have a lot of potential across basically all of human activity. And if we happen to need to defend against inter-dimensional kaiju invaders, at least now we have a path to make that happen.


Listen up, investors at Disrupt Berlin 2017. This one’s for you.
We’re thrilled to announce that you can now peruse the companies that will be on display in the Startup Alley at Disrupt Berlin 2017 on our handy Startup Alley Hub.
In addition to being a fantastic resource, the site is mobile-friendly, so you can easily view info on all of your favorite Alley companies right from your mobile device at the conference.
The hub is separated into days and categories, so you can see all the e-commerce companies that will be on display on day 1 of the conference, for example, making it simple to keep track of the companies you’re interested in talking to.
Each company on the hub has a profile that contains information about the company and their product or service, as well as any investors in the company thus far and how much money they’ve raised to date. The profile also contains contact information for the company’s founders and other representatives so you have all the information you need to get in touch right at your fingertips.
And if you’re so inclined, you can share interesting company profiles with your followers on social media sites with the share buttons on the left side of each company profile.
We wanted to make it easy for all the investors at Disrupt to learn more about the companies they’ll be connecting with in Startup Alley, and we think the Startup Alley hub is a pivotal resource for you as you plan your days at the show.
Speaking of the show, Disrupt Berlin 2017 takes place 4-5 December at Arena Berlin, and we can’t wait to see all of you VCs, entrepreneurs and tech enthusiasts at the show.
And if you somehow still haven’t purchased your Disrupt Berlin ticket, you can do so here and save big before Early Bird sales end this Wednesday.


When HPE acquired Nimble Storage in March for a cool billion dollars, it knew it was getting some nifty flash storage technology. But it also got Nimble’s InfoSight artificial intelligence capabilities that not only monitored the underlying storage arrays, but all of the adjacent datacenter technology.
Today, the company announced it has enhanced that technology to provide recommendations based on the body of data from Nimble’s 10,000 customers.
Bill Philbin, HPE SVP and GM for storage and big data solutions, says when companies are running applications, they need to know when things are going to go wrong before it happens. It’s not unlike sensors telling a factory owner that the machine is going to break soon. It allows you to take action proactively on your terms before something breaks down.
“As customers look how to build datacenters more efficiently, one of the biggest areas they struggle with is how to provide an optimal applications experience for consumers,” he said. The InfoSight tool can give them insight into how to optimize the hardware these applications are running on.
The company is not only looking at the individual customer’s datacenter to make recommendations. It’s using the entire Nimble customer base (and eventually extending that to other HPE storage products) to understand what issues trigger problems. When it sees a similar set of issues across multiple customers, the system learns the optimal way to fix that and can make the appropriate recommendation on how to repair or prevent a potential problem.
The way it works is the company collects millions of data points from the storage arrays, hypervisors and virtual machines under its purview, then encrypts and anonymizes the data and sends it to the InfoSight cloud analytics engine, where the data gets processed in real time and presented to customers. The customers log into the InfoSight portal to see how the system is doing at any given moment and get recommendations on how to keep the system stable and running smoothly.
In addition to the recommendation enhancements, they are also announcing InfoSight for 3Par, another storage solution that HP bought in 2010. This gives 3Par customers access to a similar solution for its line of storage products.
Philbin say adding this technology to 3Par is just a starting point. The company wants to eventually have InfoSight running across the entire storage product set to provide a similarly rich set of information and recommendations for each group of storage products in the HPE family.

Featured Image: Getty Images


Chinese internet giant Baidu is continuing its push into the automotive space after it led a RMB 1.3 billion ($195 million) Series B investment in Shouqi Limousine & Chauffeur, an offshoot of the state-owned Shouqi Group which was Beijing’s first licensed ride-hailing app.
NIO Capital, the investment arm of billion-dollar electric car startup NIO, and Silk Road Huachuang joined the round, which added RMB700 million (US$105 million) to an original RMB600 million (US$88 million) Series B announced in July.
Shouqi Limousine & Chauffeur does just as the name implies. It competes with ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing but differs in its approach — preferring to own its fleet of cars rather than encouraging drivers to own provide a vehicle themselves, the approach that Didi, Uber and others favor.
Right now, Shouqi claims a fleet of 60,000 cars which cover 53 cities and districts across China. The business has more than 20 million registered users, of which 2.4 million are active, it added. Those figures are dwarfed by Didi — which claims over 450 million users — but Shouqi said its limousine and chauffeur business has seen success thanks to the fact that it adheres to China’s ride-hailing regulations.
Now with this funding it plans to go after the electric vehicle market with help from Baidu — which operates the Apollo self-driving car platform — and NIO’s experience and platform. It also plans to go after  ring artificial intelligence into its service using Baidu’s DuerOS platform and NIO’s smarts.
Shouq was valued at $750 million when it closed the first portion of the round in July but there’s no update on that figure following the closure of this second installment.

Featured Image: Visual China Group


Taking another step toward shedding its reputation as the tech industry’s most notorious patent troll, Intellectual Ventures is launching the first company from its incubator.
The company’s ISF Incubator has licensed technology to LexSet —  a spinout launched by two bi-coastal serial entrepreneurs (and recovering architects) Leslie Karpas and Francis Bitonti — to roll out a suite of augmented reality tools for interior design and furniture assembly.
The multi-billion dollar home design industry is a massive global business. Everyone in the world, it seems, wants to keep up with the Joneses — or at least with the images they see on the Joneses’ Instagram and Pinterest accounts.
Just ask the investors in companies like Wayfair, which is now publicly traded with a market cap of nearly $5.8 billion; or Laurel and Wolf, which raised $20 million at a nearly $100 million valuation from none other than Benchmark Capital — one of Silicon Valley’s marquee investment firms.
In all venture investors have backed roughly 60 deals with some $1.4 billion in financing in the home decorating or interior design space, according to a search on Crunchbase. So it’s no surprise that a market that vast would be one of the first to attract the attention of entrepreneurs and the imagination of Intellectual Ventures’ newly minted ISF Incubator.
Seattle-based Intellectual Ventures has long been viewed with no small amount of contempt (and a large amount of fear) by Silicon Valley’s investment class, because of its reputation as a patent hole — a gaping maw in the Northwest corner of the U.S. where patents go to die and be reborn as fodder for litigation.
As an Economist profile put it in a 2015 article:
In its 10 year life, [Intellectual Ventures] has filed more than 3,000 patents for its own inventors’ work, and acquired 70,000 more, putting it ahead of the likes of Google, Toyota and Boeing. “What venture capital did for startups,” Myhrvold says, “we want to do for inventions.”
Critics would argue that Myhrvold’s high-minded talk is belied by his company’s predilection for litigation over innovation.
The same article sees Myhrvold responding to those Valley critics.
“Silicon Valley is a very aspirational place. Everyone’s aspiring for their Nirvana or heaven, which is to become super-fucking-rich and powerful very young. ‘Oh my God, I’ve got this god-given right to go out and take any idea I want and become a billionaire at age 30.’ Very few get that, but that doesn’t stop them idealising [sic] it. It’s kind of a secular religion, and what we do, rewarding people who originate ideas, is apostasy to them because it’s not their algorithm.”
And for the past several years the firm has been working hard on research to generate its own intellectual property and to use that trove of patents to build new companies rather than just suing existing ones.
LexSet is one of the early fruits of that labor.
Using a combination of machine learning and visualization tools culled from the IV portfolio along with the skills Karpas and Bitonti honed as architects and designers, LexSet has built a clutch of products for furniture makers and home design retailers to boost sales. The products let users scan their homes and furniture to come up with design and decoration suggestions.



LexSemble
LexSemble demo



LexSight
LexSight demo



LexTile
LexTile







Right now it’s a recommendation engine for interior design and an instruction manual for building out furniture — if the company’s recommendations were generated by an incredibly sophisticated algorithm that was refined by two of the foremost designers operating at the intersection of technology and the arts.
Karpas, previously invented manufacturing processes for Turner Award-winning artist Anish Kapoor and developed new ways to print medical grade silicone as the founder of the medical device company, Metamason. Bitonti, founder of Studio Bitonti (and an old New York contact of mine) has designed 3D printed objects, one of which is included in the collection of the Smithsonian.
Karpas first heard about the ISF Incubator from a mentor who’d encouraged him to do a bit of digging through the intellectual property on offer.
He started working with ISF in June with Azam Khan, director of new ventures at ISF Incubator, on potential products and received formal approval to develop technology with the spinout later that summer.
The company’s products consist of four distinct tools:  LexSight, which combines image recognition tools that identify objects in a room and recommends other decorations or spatial configurations to compliment the existing objects; LexGuide, which offers a catalogue of offerings from different retailers; LexTile which can create different tiling patterns for surfaces; and finally, LexSemble, which provides instructions for making furniture in augmented reality.
“A lot of these things are hard to describe,” says Bitonti. “The leverage the work we’ve done in generative tooling.”
For Khan, the pairing was nothing short of serendipitous. “Les had the spark to build the suite on top of the inventions in our portfolio,” he said. “And he had validation from Fancis on the technical side.”
Bitonti and Karpas may have built the toolkit, but it’s the capital and intellectual property from Intellectual Ventures’ incubator that’s been the engine driving the initial business, according to Khan.
It’s important to note, that the LexSet business is the first to spin out from Intellectual Ventures’ newly formed incubator. The company has actually spun out 15 companies already, according to Khan, which have raised $700 million in venture funding.
“What you’re sowing now is an ability to rapidly do that,” Khan said.

Another critical component of the incubator program is that it applies only to patents that have been developed inside of Intellectual Ventures, according to Khan. For him, it’s about, “creating a program to unlock other parts of our portfolio.”
The Invention Science Fund is tapping the parent portfolio of things that have been invented exclusively inside of Intellectual Ventures. Khan said that it’s a prime subset of the IV patent portfolio.
Khan didn’t disclose the amount of capital that the parent company committed to the fund, but said that the incubator would be seeding companies to the tune of “the low hundreds of thousands of dollars.”
The central thesis, said Khan, is to give the spinouts control of the intellectual property upon spinout, and not charge a licensing fee for future applications of the technology.
In the case of LexSet, those goals are much larger than simply providing tips and tricks for design thinking in a built environment, according to Karpas.
“What Francis and I are doing is to give anybody, anywhere an ability to create anything with the tools that they have around them,” Karpas said.

Featured Image: Tom Sibley/Getty Images


Uber and Lyft have made it easier to get around town, but the service isn’t designed for young people. Unaccompanied passengers under the age of 18 are forbidden from ordering cars.
So how are children supposed to go from one activity to the next when their parents are busy? Well, there’s carpools or nannies, but a ridesharing startup called HopSkipDrive is combining these concepts by hiring drivers that double as caregivers.
It’s been operating in LA for the past three years and also operates in Orange County and the San Francisco Bay Area. Now the business is announcing it’s $7.4 million in additional funding to fuel its goals. This is on top of the $14.1 million previously raised.
The latest financing comes from Student Transportation Inc., which will also be partnering with HopSkipDrive for school bus alternatives. The round also includes participation from existing investors Upfront Ventures and FirstMark Capital.
Greg Bettinelli, a partner at Upfront Ventures and board member at HopSkipDrive said that “by teaming up with school systems they’re not only unlocking massive growth opportunity for the business, they also have potential to help tens of thousands of parents.”
HopSkipDrive will also be working with the Los Angeles Office of Education to ensure that foster children are able to get rides to school.
Regular users can order rides for just one passenger. Or HopSkipDrive has also been growing its carpooling business, which offers discounted fares.
CEO Joanna McFarland said that she’s especially proud of the screening process of its drivers. “We do far more than most families do to vet a nanny or a babysitter,” she said. “We really set ourselves apart with our dedication to safety.”
She touted a 15-point certification process which she believes is the “strictest in the industry.” Drivers are not only subject to background checks but are also required to have five years of childcare experience. The drivers are 99% female and above the age of 23.
But HopSkipDrive isn’t the only business to see opportunity in the child ridesharing business. Competitor Zūm recently raised money from Sequoia. And then there’s Shuddle, which shut down after running into financial difficulties.
We got a video tour of the startup last year.


Uber has been slapped with an $8.9 million fine in Colorado after state criminal investigators found it had allowed 57 individuals with past criminal or motor vehicle offenses to drive and pick up passengers on its platform over the past year and a half.
The news was reported yesterday by the Denver Post, which notes that Uber has 10 days to pay half the fine or request a hearing to contest it.
The penalty, issued by the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (PUC), breaks down to $2,500 per day for each day a disqualified driver was found driving for Uber. The regulator also investigated Uber ride-hailing rival Lyft but found no problems, according to the newspaper.
PUC transport enforcement staff launched an investigation earlier this year after a local police force referred details of an Uber driver accused of assaulting a passenger.
The regulator then cross-checked driver records produced by Uber with information it was able to obtain — via the Colorado Crime Information Center and court databases — and its staff found Uber had allowed individuals to drive who had previous felony convictions, major moving violations (DUI, DWI, reckless driving, driving under restraint), and “numerous instances” of individuals driving with suspended, revoked or cancelled driver’s licenses.
“We have determined that Uber had background check information that should have disqualified these drivers under the law, but they were allowed to drive anyway,” said PUC director Doug Dean in a statement. “These actions put the safety of passengers in extreme jeopardy.”
Colorado authorized ride-hailing services in June 2014, via a senate bill, with the PUC handed the task of creating rules to regulate apps like Uber and Lyft. The rules, which came into effect in 2016, require a ride-hailing company to carry out either fingerprint checks on drivers or run their own background check. It’s those latter checks which appear to be failing here, in Uber’s case.
“PUC staff was able to find felony convictions that the company’s background checks failed to find, demonstrating that the company’s background checks are inadequate,” noted Dean. “In other cases, we could not confirm criminal background checks were even conducted by Uber.”
At the time of writing Uber had not responded to a question about how its background checking processes had failed here. But in a statement given to the Denver Post a company spokeswoman claimed the issue boiled down to a “process error”:
We recently discovered a process error that was inconsistent with Colorado’s ridesharing regulations and proactively notified the [PUC]. This error affected a small number of drivers and we immediately took corrective action. Per Uber safety policies and Colorado state regulations, drivers with access to the Uber app must undergo a nationally accredited third-party background screening. We will continue to work closely with the CPUC to enable access to safe, reliable transportation options for all Coloradans.
However, according to the Post’s report, the PUC’s Dean disputed Uber’s version of events — telling the newspaper the regulator had to threaten Uber with daily civil penalties in order to get the company to provide the driver records it had requested.
He further claimed some penalized drivers remained on Uber’s system. “This is not a data processing error. This is a public safety issue,” he added.
Driver background checks continue to be a major problem for ride-hailing companies — highlighting the fault lines of business models that rely on self-employed contractors to do the lion’s share of the service delivery.
And which — at times — also appear to have been geared towards prioritizing business growth and a race for market dominance over and above passenger safety, which would very clearly be better served by more thorough driver screening processes.
In Maryland, for example, between December 2015 and April 2017, state regulators removed some 4,000 ride-hailing drivers who had passed background checks conducted by Uber and Lyft after finding they failed to meet state standards. (The vast majority, ~97%, were Uber drivers.)
While in Massachusetts, between 2016 and April 2017, the state removed 8,200 ride-hailing drivers who had passed Uber and Lyft company checks — including 51 registered sex offenders.
Yet the two companies have fought against efforts by regulators to require more stringent, fingerprint-based checks for drivers on ride-hailing platforms.
In Austin, Texas, Uber and Lyft temporarily pulled out of the city in 2016 after it brought in mandatory fingerprint-based background checks for drivers. Statewide regulations were then subsequently brought in doing away with mandatory fingerprint checks and both companies resumed services in the city.
The pair have claimed fingerprint checks can contain gaps. However background checks based on names alone risk not catching aliases that individuals can use to try to conceal criminal pasts.
And checks by private companies are demonstrably failing in thousands of instances — bringing them unwanted attention from regulators in multiple markets.
In London, for example, Uber had its license to operate removed in September — with the local transport regulator citing concerns about its background checking processes. Transport for London had also received complaints from the city’s police department that Uber systematically underreported serious allegations of assaults by Uber drivers.
“Uber can fix this tomorrow. The law allows them to have fingerprint background checks. We had found a number of aka’s and aliases that these drivers were using. That’s the problem with name-based background checks,” the PUC’s Dean told the Denver Post. “We’re very concerned and we hope the company will take steps to correct this.”
Uber is also now facing a class action lawsuit in the US — alleging that thousands of female passengers have endured unlawful conduct by their Uber drivers and that the company has taken shortcuts in driver screening processes.
Meanwhile Uber’s internal company culture came under an uncomfortable spotlight earlier this year when a former engineer blogged about her experiences of sexism and sexual harassment during her time working for the company.
Susan Fowler’s blog post eviscerating Uber’s toxic culture led to an internal investigation into sexual harassment, multiple firings and, indirectly, to the departure of co-founder Travis Kalanick himself.
Uber is also being sued for privacy violations by a Texas resident who alleged she had been raped by her Uber driver in India — and subsequently learned the company’s president of business in Asia Pacific had accessed and was carrying around her medical records.

Featured Image: MikeDotta/Shutterstock


Disrupt Berlin, Europe’s best technology conference and startup competition, kicks off in less than two weeks. And because we want every procrastinator and every last-minute decision-maker to get the best possible price, we extended our deadline for early-bird ticket pricing to the breaking point. Alas, that opportunity ends in just 48 hours.
At the stroke of midnight (local Berlin time) on November 22, the price of a single Disrupt Berlin ticket jumps 30 percent, from €833 to €1190 (pricing includes VAT). Why not buy your tickets right now and save yourself some serious dough?
The last time Berlin hosted a TechCrunch Disrupt was back in 2013. Since then, the city’s startup scene has grown only hotter; if tech-startup blood courses through your veins, this is one event you don’t want to miss.
Do you love hardware? Even if you’re just curious about the issues on the forefront of that arena, we’ve got a great slate of speakers who live and breathe hardware. Henri Seydoux, founder of Parrot, will grace the main stage to discuss the use of commercial drones — think firefighters and farmers. Tom Carter, CTO and co-founder of Ultrahaptics, will give a special presentation on ultrasound-emitter technology that lets people touch and feel three-dimensional shapes that aren’t there.
But wait, there’s more. Ulrich Spiesshofer, CEO of ABB, will discuss robotics and Elvie’s CEO, Tania Boler, will talk about how advances in sensor technology and connected devices fit into her vision of a global tech brand focused on women’s health. That’s a lot of hardware love, but our main stage also will feature conversations on a range of bleeding-edge technology — like cryptocurrency, AI and autonomous cars — with some of the industry’s hottest innovators.
Looking for even more reasons to buy that ticket? Remember the classic events that make every Disrupt an outstanding experience. The Startup Battlefield promises to be a huge draw as 15 early-stage startups are primed, poised and ready to bring it to the Disrupt main stage. Which one will claim the title, hoist the Disrupt Cup and pocket the $50,000 prize?
Don’t miss exploring Startup Alley, the site of hundreds of the most promising early-stage companies from around the world. Combine walking the Alley with our curated CrunchMatch service, and it’s easier than ever for investors to add the perfect startup to their portfolio.
We’re still not finished; there’s the Hackathon, Off the Record sessions, after parties and plenty of time for networking. It’s a wonder we can pack it all into one conference.
Disrupt Berlin takes place December 4-5, 2017 at Arena Berlin, Eichenstraße 412435. You have 48 hours left to get the best possible price. Buy your tickets today.


Bitcoin cruised past $8,000 for the first time this week, but it hasn’t been smooth sailing for all after Tether — a company that helps exchanges convert fiat currency to token — said today that a hacker snatched nearly $31 million.
Tether operates USDT, a cryptocurrency asset that it backs via the U.S. dollar. The company said that $30,950,010-worth of USDT was taken from its core treasury wallet “through malicious action by an external attacker.”
In response Tether said it has flagged the tokens — meaning that it will track them and prevent the holder from exchanging them through its service — and that it is working to recover them.
For partners, the back-end wallet service has been suspended. Tether said it will investigate the incident while it rolls out an update to Omni Core — its software for partners — that will prevent the stolen coins from recirculating into its ecosystem by essentially locking them into the alleged hacker’s wallet.
One of the partners that uses Tether is crypto exchange Bitfinex, which itself lost 119,756 bitcoin — then worth $72 million but valued at over $950 million today — in a hack over a year ago.
As Coindesk reports, the incident is sure to throw up more questions about the relationship between Tether and the secretive exchange Bitfinex. The duo are rumored to share owners, and have been accused of leaning on each other to manipulate the market. Already, there are theories circulating that suggest this new attack could be an inside job.
Bitcoin’s value took a dent when the news came out, but it quickly recovered. At the time of writing, bitcoin’s value stood at $8,126.71, down 1.35 percent over 24 hours, according to Coindesk.


Featured Image: NurPhoto/Getty Images


DMM, one of Japan’s largest Internet and e-commerce conglomerates, announced today that it will pay 7 billion yen (about $62.2 million) for pawn shop app Cash. Launched this summer, Cash’s software automatically appraises an item’s value based on user photos and offers a cash advance with it as collateral.
Cash was developed by Bank, a startup launched by serial entrepreneur Yusuke Mitsuomoto earlier this year. Mitsuomoto’s previous startup, an e-commerce platform called Stores.jp, sold to Zozotown, one of Japan’s largest online clothing retailers, for an undisclosed sum in 2013.
Bank has just six employees and the startup was apparently overwhelmed when Cash first launched on June 28. Less than a day after it started service, Cash temporarily suspended operations after it was flooded with appraisal requests, many submitted by pranksters who uploaded photos of things like ramen. Cash then relaunched on August 24 after improvements were made to its system.
The acquisition of Cash by DMM means the app now has access to financial resources and talent to support its growth and expansion into new markets. Mitsuomoto told TechCrunch in an email that the company believes there are business and market opportunities outside of Japan, but have not yet decided exactly when to expand abroad.

Featured Image: Michael Burrell/Getty Images


Today’s Stories

Apple served with a search warrant
Uber orders 24,000 Volvos
Germany bans children’s smartwatches
Using AR to explore endangered species

Credits
Written by: Brian HeaterHosted by: Brian HeaterFilmed by: Veanne CaoEdited by: John Murillo
Notes:

Hi, my name is Brian. I’ll be your host all Turkey week.


It’s hard to believe, but it’s already time for the holidays again.
Time to untangle the lights, dust off the wreath and start figuring out what the heck you’re going to get everyone.
Need ideas? We can help!
We here at TechCrunch spend most of our days thinking about whatever new gizmo or gadget is about to hit the shelves, and we’ve been jotting down our favorites for months. As we do each year, we’re taking that knowledge and wrapping it up in bite-sized gift guides for your perusal. Maybe you’ll find the perfect gift for that person who’s impossible to shop for. Maybe that person is you, and you just need some ideas for your own wish list.
Check out the 2017 TechCrunch Holiday Gift Guide here.
We’ve got a handful of gift guides already prepped for your perusal. We’ve got ideas for gifts that mom and dad will still be using a year from now, and for the kids who want to grow up to be engineers or video game designers. We’ve got gorgeous gift ideas, geeky gift ideas and ideas for those shutterbug friends who never put their camera down.
But we’re just getting started. We’ll be publishing new gift guides almost every day leading up ’til Christmas… so check back often!


Uri Sarid
Contributor


Uri Sarid is the CTO of MuleSoft.

			More posts by this contributor:			
The last thing the API economy needs is copyright friction



Software is losing its magic. We simply demand too much from the current approaches. As a result, software developers are losing the battle with complexity, often without realizing it. More often than not, little failures pile on top of other little failures, and life for the consumer, as well as the business, becomes more frustrating rather than easier.
For example, Apple’s products have become buggy, travel is still a nightmare and call center experiences make us doubt both artificial and human intelligence.
To bring the magic back into software, developers will need to stop walking systems through each step to ensure the desired outcomes. Instead, as systems grow more voluminous and complex by the minute, developers will need to make software itself more autonomous through the use of layers, intent-oriented algorithms and artificial intelligence (AI).
If we take a step back, it’s not a huge surprise some of the magic has been lost. We’ve greatly raised our expectations of software, while simultaneously broadening our expectation of who should be able to command it. More and more is expected to “just work” automatically, and more of us expect to be able to control the automation of our digital life and work.
It’s hard enough to meet these expectations when the problems the software is addressing are static. But this automation is also expected to address real-time needs — ones in which the parameters change rapidly, even while the automation is executing.
Car navigation from point A to point B is hard enough in the face of traffic, weather and construction. But what about optimizing for passengers’ phone meetings during the commute, or for physical and digital commerce along the way? How about doing that for millions of cars simultaneously sharing the same roads? How about doing that for trips that combine cars, trains, planes, hotels, restaurants and more.
These factors are starting to mandate a different programming model: a declarative one. In this alternative model, we declare an intent — a desired goal or end state — and the software systems autonomously figure out how to simply “make it so.” Humans set the boundaries and constraints, but it’s too much to expect humans to always figure out the solution to get there. So, computers step in and do it themselves.
The new programming model will leverage computers to solve their own issues of complexity. 


An illustrative analogy is well understood in the corporate world: management by objectives (MBO). A strong MBO approach has employees being told which objectives they’ll be measured by versus how precisely to achieve them. The objectives might be centered around sales results, customer engagements or product adoption. It’s then up to the employees to figure out the path to get there. It’ll often require adapting, as conditions change unexpectedly, and learning in the process so it gets easier over time. So, in a sense, this alternative programming model is one that manages software by objectives: MBO for machines.
Examples of this need are everywhere. One of the hottest areas right now is bots, or interfaces that accept voice or text commands. While today’s bots are often command-oriented (e.g. find Jane Doe on LinkedIn), they will need to become intent-oriented (e.g. find me a great job candidate).
Imagine you need to hire a new sales representative, engineer or CIO. Rather than sitting at your computer and scouring the web to source talent, you interact instead with an intelligent chatbot that does the nitty-gritty work for you. Behind the scenes, the chatbot is linked to an API that orchestrates candidates from LinkedIn and Glassdoor, enriches their information using GitHub and Meetup and reaches out to them to gauge interest and fit. Once a suitable candidate is located, the chatbot connects you two to get the ball rolling. Over time, the chatbot learns which candidates work out, and gets better at sourcing them. While it sounds futuristic, this hiring method is possible today with the right orchestration of existing software.
We can look to the way our own built-in computers (our brains) process images to gain lessons in how software can solve complex scenarios at scale:


In the first layer, light is absorbed by photoreceptor cells, which do minimal processing and pass signals to the second and third layers of the retina.


In the second and third layers, neurons and ganglion cells work together to meet the goal of detecting edges or shadows, and send findings into the brain through the optic nerve.


In the visual cortex, there are more layers: one layer calculates where objects are in space; another layer detects and processes edges to put together shapes; an additional layer turns these shapes into recognizable things, such as faces and objects. Each layer learns over time and improves its performance.


Eventually, the last layer actually matches these faces or objects against the person’s stored memory bank, and he or she recognizes or doesn’t recognize the people and objects.


This approach, where each layer is responsible for just one goal and where the goals become increasingly more sophisticated at each higher level of abstraction, allows software to be intent-based and solve complex scenarios at scale. In the machine world, the layers come in the form of APIs freeing up critical data; composite services orchestrating data from disparate systems; and artificial intelligence making smart decisions at every layer.
This is the future of software, and that future has already started in modern, massively distributed cloud computing systems such as Google’s Kubernetes and its rich ecosystem; in autonomous vehicles, both terrestrial and aerial; and, of course, in artificial intelligence and machine learning, which are seeping into every layer of our increasingly digital world.
A paradigm shift is inevitable, because the mounting complexity brought on by an explosion of co-dependent systems, dynamic data and rising expectations demands to be solved at its core. The new programming model will leverage computers to solve their own issues of complexity and allow humans to do what they do best: choreographing the outcomes.




The Kindle has become one of the most ubiquitous pieces of specialty electronics in the world since it launched 10 years ago today, but the device has changed so much since its debut that one can hardly believe the oldest and newest models are meant to do the same thing.
Amazon’s Chris Green, VP of Design at its Lab126 hardware arm, talked with me for a retrospective of the design choices that have defined and redefined the device, and the reasoning behind them. Green has been at Lab126 for a long time, but not quite for the entire Kindle project, as he explained to me.
We can never be better than paper, but we can be as compelling.“My first day at Amazon was the day the Kindle launched — November 19, 2007. I walked into the office and everyone was going crazy. I thought that’s what it was going to be like every day,” he recalled. “Then the next morning I went in, they had sold all the Kindles in one day and everybody was panicking. So that was an interesting first 24 hours.”
For the next decade he’d work on getting the Kindle closer to what he called the “gold standard”: paper.
“We can never be better than paper, but we can be as compelling,” he said. “We really didn’t want any bezel or bling or even page-turn buttons — everything we’ve done over 15 generations has been to reduce it to basically a piece of paper.” (With the new Oasis there have actually been a total of 16 “generations” or models.)
That may come as a surprise to those who remember the first Kindle, which with its chunky angles, slab-like buttons and aggressively ergonomic keyboard, seems almost brutalist. I’ve always thought it would look at home on the set of Alien.
Although he didn’t help create the first generation, Green is plenty familiar with its design language. Turns out there’s a very simple reason behind the angles.
“If you have one of those around, you’ll notice that the cross section is actually that of a paperback book — the pages go at that angle,” Green said. “The dimensions are even a standard paperback’s. They were trying their hardest even at that early stage to represent a paperback book.”
That consideration more or less went out the window with the second-generation Kindle, which did away with the sloping pages visual metaphor and walked back many of the other bold but unusual choices.
“All the pitch points of the original Kindle — the little Chiclets, and the fact that the keyboard was split — those were very logical. It’s very ergonomic,” said Green. “So everything is very logical — but when you take a deep breath, and take your head out of the bucket, you’re like, wait, there’s an easier way to do this. There’s no reason for those keys to actually be shaped like that.”
The redesign was aimed at making it approachable and attractive to a wider demographic — one that might not appreciate the severity of the original. In my opinion, it worked: the clean lines and carefully designed proportions made the Kindle 2 a real looker, and years later it still holds its own.
After this, Amazon introduced the short-lived Kindle DX, a large-format e-reader that didn’t catch on, partly because the market for larger-format reading (articles, journals) wasn’t as large or ready to spend money than the paperback-buying contingent.
One particularly high-end feature got nixed before the DX even hit the market:
“In the first version of the Kindle DX, the back had a fully quilted surface — originally it was actually fabric, but that was too expensive,” Green said. But more importantly, he said, “the highs and lows get wear and tear. We don’t want people to be on the treadmill of upgrading, so we put a lot of effort into durability.”
Green also mentioned the attention paid to features that are less easy to define — basically, all the tiny things that make a device better or worse to read on.
“Over the first few generations we spent a lot of time with customers — we went everywhere with them,” he said. “We had a really cool reading lab in our building where we would watch people read and see how quickly people’s eyes got bored as they scan a line of text.” (“When people read,” he added, “they fidget like crazy. It’s uncomfortable to watch.”
They determined the best spacing, kerning, line length and so on, making sure that the device improved in readability even as they changed other aspects of it.
Going dark
The third generation made a few small changes and one big one. The physical interface continued to shrink relative to the screen, moving slowly toward that gold standard. But more importantly, the device’s main color went from off-white to off-black (“graphite”).
Was this a response to black smartphones? Fingerprint complains? Material shortages? Nope: as some have suggested, it’s meant to trick the eye.
See, e-paper isn’t really white, it’s really a shade of grey, and not even a particularly light one. So when you give it a white bezel, the white plastic shows it up and makes it look even more grey. But with a black bezel, it works in the opposite direction: it makes the grey look lighter, and as a consequence, the “black” letters, actually just a darker grey, look even darker.
“That’s exactly the reason,” Green said. “We moved over the graphite to help with the contrast ratio. We wanted the black text to pop more on the display.”
Combined with a new Pearl display from E Ink, it made for a major jump in contrast. And they’d need that before moving on to the next generation.
The fourth-generation Kindle was the first to do away with the keyboard, producing a notably smaller device. It seems to me to have lost something of its soul with this change, though; the Kindle 4 and its successors reminded me more of budget tablets of years past rather than a brand new device.
It was the Kindle Touch, however, that signaled the future of the device — although at the time, I wasn’t very impressed with it or its competitors.
“We always wanted touch,” explained Green; the keyboard and other buttons on early models were largely necessitated by the low refresh rate of e-paper displays. “The thing is, those touch displays aren’t optically clear. When there wasn’t a frontlight, and you put this yellowing, sepia layer on it, it really made the contrast ratio worse.”

The solution, a network of infrared blasters and sensors that could only tell roughly where you put your finger, was a stopgap measure.
“If you have to take your thumb off the bezel, and put it over the display and put it down, that’s cognitive load right there,” Green said. We used that IR window until we got the frontlight working, because that would burn away that sepia layer.”
Let there be frontlight
The frontlight was already well under way, and would be announced in the form of the Kindle Paperwhite. I saw a prototype several months before that, and it turns out Amazon had quietly acquired a company in 2010 called Oy Modilis that specialized in light-guiding films like those used in the Paperwhite.
At the time, having taken care of even lighting, the designers were mostly worried about color temperature. The warmth of a tungsten bulb or flame illuminating a creamy page and ink-black (naturally) text is very difficult to replicate, and at the time they had to settle for something quite a bit colder, color-wise.
“White LEDs are binned into 3 different temperatures: warm, blue, and neutral,” Green explained. “And by mixing those bins you can get a nice blend. So we’ve played with those blends to get where we are now — but there’s always room for improvement.”
Although a frontlight makes for a vastly more convenient reading device, the color cast isn’t for everyone. But Kindle has never gone the way Kobo did, adding a user-selectable color temperature setting. The team opted to keep things simple, Green said.
In 2014 the Kindle line split again, adding the Voyage to the mix. In service of streamlining the device further it was decided to add an invisible alternative to tapping the screen to advance the page. PagePress used sensors inside the body of the device to tell when a user gave the edge a little squeeze, allowing them to advance the page even more intuitively. To Green’s surprise, the feature wasn’t particularly popular.
“The page-turn buttons on the Voyage were expensive and very cool, but there’s something about the button snap that’s very satisfying,” he said. “I was so surprised that people didn’t like the PagePress tech, because it was silent, and a dome switch is noisy. People complained that the noise kept people up.” A lot of research had gone into it, but ultimately PagePress didn’t become a staple of Kindle design.
Some six months later, the third-generation Paperwhite appeared; its chief improvement was a new high-resolution display, but what can’t be ignored is what that improvement allowed typographically. Amazon commissioned a completely new font built from the ground up for the Kindle’s display and type engine: Bookerly.
Bookerly wasn’t a huge advance in typography or anything, but it’s an important philosophical shift — acknowledging the strengths and limitations of the type environment and designing for them, rather than attempting to ape paper. An e-paper display needs its own font and styling just as a newspaper does, or a textbook, or a logotype. Custom e-reader fonts had appeared elsewhere, so it was well past time Amazon did its own or risk looking lax in its dedication to the platform.
Farewell to symmetry
The Oasis represented the largest change to the design of the Kindle perhaps since the loss of the keyboard. It also signaled further commitment to the e-reader as its own entity that only needs to replicate the printed page in some ways. Green said that the departure from the old style was a refreshing one for him.
“There are certain things in the world that humans consider beautiful: the Golden Ratio, Fibonacci sequences, and of course symmetry,” he said. “We got in a tight spot with the symmetrical design in that we couldn’t take it any further — so we took a bold shot with the Oasis.”
“When you see people using these devices,” he explained, “it becomes very clear that they want the center of gravity in their hand and the button under their thumb. But having physical buttons on both sides would be prohibitive [in terms of space]. An e-ink device today is basically a stack of display components and a stack of battery components, and those technologies are progressing at very different rates.”
So they isolated the battery on one side, making it asymmetric (at least, in its normal orientation) but also solving the center of gravity, handedness and page-turn problems.
The new Oasis is actually a major departure from its predecessor in that its screen has expanded to fill more of the device: it’s the first Kindle with a 7-inch display, yet it’s no larger than before. That takes us closer to the “gold standard.”
It also brings us up to the present, though the design is sure to evolve in the future.
The one you’ve not seen
I asked Green if among the many, many Kindles there was one he’d call his baby, a sentimental favorite.
“My answer’s a cop-out,” he said, truthfully, “but it’s the one you’ve not seen yet.”
The difference between a hammer and a Swiss Army Knife.“You know where we’re going, and we’re getting really close to it,” he continued mysteriously. He said that he hasn’t upgraded regularly, but that he’s had both Oasis models and “the next one is going to be even better.”
He was extremely optimistic as to the future of e-readers in general. It’s a great example of how a device with a single purpose is often the right tool for the job.
“It’s the difference between a hammer and a Swiss Army Knife, isn’t it? If you want to go on a vacation or commute, you want a hammer — you want a real e-reader, so you don’t fall down a rabbit hole of your phone.”
And the Kindle business, he pointed out, is booming: “The last Prime Day was the best sales day ever in the U.S. — and the market is just growing. It’s taking off,” he said.
“We’re going to be here for a long time.”


		


On-demand delivery is a coveted service in traffic-congested Nairobi. Enter Shujaa Delivery, a Nairobi-based door-to-door delivery and courier service for businesses that uses motorcycles instead of cars.
Tracy Mulei, founder and CEO of Shujaa Delivery, decided to start the company after she had a bad experience with a delivery rider, she told TechCrunch.
“The main thing we are solving is inconsistency with riders,” Mulei said. “We are also much more affordable than most of our competitors.”
Shujaa has 30 retainer clients, most of which are e-commerce websites looking to ship products and corporate clients that need errands run for them. Although Shujaa Delivery is still a small company and only operates in Nairobi and the city’s surrounding area, Mulei’s end goal is to be an international company. The idea, Mulei said, is to compete with the likes of Aramax and DHL.


The new Echo is a better looking device than its predecessor, thanks in large part to its various fabric coverings. Now, there’s a new option for the outer shell: A PRODUCT(RED) special limited edition. The fabric outer comes in red, appropriately enough, and $10 of the purchase price (of $99.99, same as any other Echo) will go toward (RED)’s work fighting AIDS through the Global Fund.
Amazon isn’t the first to bring (RED) branding to a consumer gadget to support the fight against AIDS; Apple has a range of devices and accessories that work with the same campaign. Amazon’s Echo looks like a winner, though, with a unique design that’s probably worth keeping around to appeal to folks with a bit of a penchant for colors other than gray, other gray, darkest gray and fake wood.
The (RED) Echo is currently listing a release date of December 6 on Amazon, and, as mentioned, it’s going for the same price as the other iterations. Also, it doesn’t look like the “ECHO3PACK” promotion, which offers a $50 discount when you order any three second-generation Echo devices, applies to the (RED) version.


On Monday, AT&T confirmed the U.S. Department of Justice’s decision to sue in order to block the company’s plans to purchase Time Warner for $85.4 billion. Earlier reports suggested that the DOJ would move against the deal if AT&T did not intend to sell CNN.
CNN has a famously fraught relationship with the Trump administration, which has gone out of its way to attack the news source throughout both campaign season and Trump’s first year in office. It’s not immediately clear why the Trump administration would oppose the AT&T deal, a vertical merger that would not eliminate a competitor and was not expected to generate antitrust controversy.
AT&T’s Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel David R. McAtee issued a statement speaking out against the news as it broke:

Today’s DOJ lawsuit is a radical and inexplicable departure from decades of antitrust precedent. Vertical mergers like this one are routinely approved because they benefit consumers without removing any competitor from the market. We see no legitimate reason for our merger to be treated differently.
Our merger combines Time Warner’s content and talent with AT&T’s TV, wireless and broadband distribution platforms. The result will help make television more affordable, innovative, interactive and mobile. Fortunately, the Department of Justice doesn’t have the final say in this matter. Rather, it bears the burden of proving to the U.S. District Court that the transaction violates the law. We are confident that the Court will reject the Government’s claims and permit this merger under longstanding legal precedent.


While I stood anxiously atop a floating platform on my way to what felt like certain doom, I paused to remember my mission as I felt the pulsing heat of the lava planet Mustafar rising up from below me. With the fate of the galaxy in the hands of me and my new friends, I raced through corridors of the base, fighting waves of Stormtroopers, and coming face-to-face with pure evil.
As my spaceship pulled away, and I traded high-fives with my fellow rebels, one couldn’t help thinking we were fighting for something much bigger than ourselves. But then the pixels and polygons left my perspective as the visor came up and I stared down at the same gun that had felt so key to defeating the Empire’s goals just seconds earlier. I was no longer a Stormtrooper in disguise, I was back to being a tech reporter in a sparse warehouse in Glendale, Calif. wiping sweat off my forehead and reaching for a bottle of water.
Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire is an experience opening to the public next month at Disney resort location in Florida and California. It brings virtual reality technologies courtesy of VR startup The Void to the storytelling wits of Lucasfilm’s ILMxLAB to the dazzling theme parks know-how of Disney. What results is a walk-around VR experience that will drop plenty of jaws and open up quite a few people to the state of child-like wonder that VR has often promised but not quite as often delivered.

Sure, it’s VR, but in Secrets of the Empire, VR means a lot more.
You’re not moving around with a controller, you’re walking through the space, nervously running over precarious bridges and hiding behind doorways. When prompted to sit on a virtual bench, there’s a real one right below you. When you see a cabinet of blasters, you can pick one up and get to shooting. Every nearby wall is a wall you can feel and thanks to Leap Motion’s hand tracking tech, you can see your hands right in front of your face feeling those objects.
The free-roaming nature of the experience where you can interact with friends and the physical environment while pushing through to fight the empire amounts to a lot more than any virtual reality experience you may have tried.


Stormtroopers about to get got https://t.co/5o0d0kredy pic.twitter.com/xhvUpI7Veh
— Lucas Matney (@lucasmtny) November 20, 2017



In Secrets of the Empire, you are in the familiar-feeling position of being a storm trooper in disguise sneaking through an empire base and then being forced to fight your way out. The storyline seems to take place around the same time as Rogue One between episodes III (Revenge of the Sith) and IV (A New Hope), Cassian Andor (Diedo Luna) gives you your mission assignments before you don your headset and gear to take on the challenge he planned to accomplish but now needs your help for.
The Void, which was part of a recent Disney Accelerator class, is not alone in the location-based VR space, but while the technology that it takes to make this stuff work should not be underestimated, this is first-and-foremost an entertainment play where the IP driving the experiences is more important than ever.
For Star Wars fans, the team at ILMxLAB has built something that will feel entirely familiar the second you put on your headset and one that you will remember long after you walk away.
Where The Void remains ahead of their competition is in how it approaches experiences as co-op missions where multiple friends can endure the challenge together. This is obviously very much in keeping with Disney’s mission, but it also solves a key issue with VR — explaining what the heck you just experienced when you take the headset off. By making it a shared adventure where you can chat with your buddy or sibling or parents, it further cements the realness of what you all just went through in a way that going solo just can’t.

Tickets are $29.95 for the Star Wars experience and you’d better plan to buy ahead of time as quite a few time slots are already booked for the experience launching next month. The whole experience lasts about a half-hour though you’re storming the base for about half of that time.
Secrets of the Empire will initially be launching December 16 at Disney Springs at Walt Disney World in Florida. Then on January 5, the experience will open to the West Coast crowd at Downtown Disney near Disney Land. Aside from these permanent locations, The Void will also be operating a pop-up venue in London’s Westfield mall for 12 weeks that opens December 16th. The Void CEO Cliff Plumer tells me there are more locations being planned for locations beyond North America and Europe.




As Amazon looks to stamp its footprint beyond the Seattle area, Oculus is making further inroads into the Pacific Northwest’s major tech hub. As reported by Seattle-based tech site GeekWire, local real estate sources say that the Facebook-owned virtual reality company is in the market for a 200,000-square-foot R&D space in nearby Redmond, which already houses some Oculus research efforts. Multiple real estate sources also suggested that Oculus is eyeing a 500,000- to 1 million-square-foot space for an additional Seattle area office.
On its job postings site, Oculus lists more than 60 Redmond-based research positions, for a total of more than 100 open positions in Redmond alone, and an additional six openings in Seattle proper  — numbers that suggest that Oculus is making a major expansion in Redmond and possibly consolidating its offices in Seattle.
In 2015, the company moved into a 51,000-square-foot space in Seattle’s Stadium Innovation Center. This summer, Oculus reportedly leased an additional slightly smaller office across the street in Seattle’s SoDo neighborhood.
“We recently shared our vision to get 1 billion people into VR, and we’re growing the Oculus team in Seattle to help make that happen,” an Oculus spokesperson told TechCrunch. “We’re excited about the talent and growth in Seattle, and welcome engineering, product, and hardware experts who want to join us!”
With Microsoft’s HoloLens operations around the corner in Redmond, Valve nearby in Bellevue and a number of smaller VR companies making inroads in the region, the greater Seattle area is shaping up to be a major hub for the VR industry.


Photo editing and sharing platform VSCO has announced the launch of private messages in an effort to encourage people to interact with each other on its network. As the company describes it, users can "exchange editing tips and tricks, share compelling profiles and published content, and receive creative feedback from peers." Anyone you follow on VSCO can message you. The feature will first roll out to VSCO X paying members and will come to free users in the coming weeks.
The feature works like any other messaging service, but is particularly similar to Instagram. Users can forward images they see in their feed by tapping an arrow icon, just like they can on Instagram. A private conversation is then started. It's unclear whether you can have a group message thread, and VSCO doesn't mention the idea on any of its FAQ pages.
Messages have become an essential part of Instagram, as demonstrated by the fact that company told The Verge today that it's testing a standalone messaging app. Clearly VSCO recognizes that users want a place to privately talk, and keeping them within its own platform makes the most sense for the company’s audience.


Ah, the holidays. The time of year when Facebook flexes its algorithms to compile all of your best social media posts into a Year in Review video. These little montages have been sprouting up like weeds on my timeline lately, showcasing many smiley faces and birthday wishes. However, they’ve also served as a lovely reminder of just how bleak 2017 actually was.
Here are a few examples from The Verge family and friends:
ALL THE MEMORIES, @facebook. pic.twitter.com/LxUU5Stu1l
Heck, even Facebook admits that the biggest moments of this year were incredibly depressing. In its Year in Review blog post, Facebook cites that the top three online events of 2017 included International Women’s Day, the shooting in Las Vegas, and... the Super Bowl. Other major happenings included the earthquake in Mexico, Hurricane Harvey, which devastated Houston with flooding, and the benefit concert “One Love Manchester,” which raised money for those who were affected by the terrorist attack at an Ariana Grande concert. “2017 was a difficult year with natural disasters and violence around the world, but it was inspiring to see people help each other when they needed it most,” says Facebook. Cool?
Oh, and people came together for the eclipse, so that’s nice at least.
Still, the Year in Review videos are a delightful illustration of how Facebook AI hasn’t quite figured out that it shouldn’t pair negative memories with cute graphics. But luckily for some, getting a video wasn’t even an option:
my facebook strategy is paying off https://t.co/a4oOOrCMCO pic.twitter.com/Nx82PoP4pz
It’s not totally surprising, given that Facebook usage was expected to drop this year anyway. (Probably because being bombarded with constant reminders of politics, tragedies, and sexual harassment can be a bit too difficult to handle sometimes.) Also, because the teens don’t find it cool anymore.





A 20-year-old man was responsible for the massive data breach at Uber last year, and the company paid him to destroy the data through its bug bounty program, reports Reuters. In November, Uber revealed it suffered from a cyberattack in October 2016 that exposed the private data of 57 million drivers and customers, which it then covered up. Uber allegedly paid hackers a $100,000 ransom to delete the data and not disclose what had happened to the media and public. The company didn’t say how the hacker was paid, or who he was.
Sources have now told Reuters that payment to the hacker was made through its bounty program, which monetarily rewards those who find bugs in the company’s software and applications. Hackers and security researchers are typically paid thousands of dollars for bugs they find, depending on their severity. The sources claim that former CEO Travis Kalanick knew about the breach and bug bounty payment, but it’s unclear who authorized payment to the hacker.
Furthermore, Reuters reports that “Uber made the payment to confirm the hacker’s identity and have him sign a nondisclosure agreement to deter further wrongdoing.” The company also reportedly ensured the data was deleted by undergoing a forensic analysis of the hacker’s computer. The hacker is described in the report as “living with his mom in a small home trying to help pay the bills,” and the report notes one source saying Uber didn’t want to prosecute an “individual who did not appear to pose a further threat.”
We’ve reached out to Uber for comment and will update when we hear back.




Google is beginning to roll out its Android Oreo update for Android Wear devices today, according to a post on the platform developers’ Google+ page (via 9to5Google).
Unlike Oreo on smartphones, the Android Wear version of the update is a much more minor affair, adding features like the ability to change notification vibration strength, manually lock the touchscreen for wet conditions, and support for seven new countries / languages.
According to the announcement, while the update is technically finished and available now, when (or even if) you’ll see it on your Android Wear watch will depend on your specific watch’s manufacturer. So, just like your smartphones, it may take a while until your device is as up to date as can be.


It's nearing the end of the year, which means more End of Year lists. Today is perhaps the most important, with GIPHY's list showcasing the most popular GIFs of the year. In a year rife with sad, frustrating, and depressing news, it's heartwarming to know that the most used GIF of 2017 was Brooklyn artist Anna Hrachovec's super cute Love Gnome. The GIF shows a looping crocheted gnome knitting a love heart that flies into the air and straight to #1 (and our hearts) with 340 million views.
Coming in second is a reaction GIF we can all relate to: White Guy Blinking, which generated 226 million views. Used extensively across Twitter and Facebook, this GIF essentially became the embodiment of mild, polite disbelief. There’s even a Game of Thrones version, courtesy of Littlefinger.
Pugs are arguably the Internet's favorite breed of dog, and this waving pug taken from DNCE's music video for the song Kissing Strangers, came in third with 215 million views. Everyone needs this kind of unbridled cuteness in their lives.
Rounding out the top 25 were pop culture GIFs like Bryan Cranston dropping the F-bomb in Why Him? (at #9), Gal Gadot in her Wonder Woman getup doing a happy dance (#10), the ubiquitous think meme which is actually from the BBC's #HoodDocumentary (#17), and a few of the Stranger Things kids also dancing (#18). Some of 2017's most memorable moments (the good and bad) also made it to the list including; Rafael Nadal winning his third US Open championship after bouncing back from injuries (#20), Trump watching the eclipse sans protective eyewear (#22), Lady Gaga's Super Bowl jump (#24), and Nicole Kidman's interesting style of clapping (#25).


Sony announced today that the PlayStation 4 has hit a major new milestone, surpassing 70 million units sold worldwide. That puts the console on track to surpass its predecessor very soon. (The PS3 sold just over 80 million units over its lifespan, while the PS4 achieved comparable numbers in just four years.)
How the PS4 compares to its most direct competitor, the Xbox One, is unclear, as Microsoft hasn’t released specific sales figures for the console. As of last January, it was estimated that the Xbox One had sold around 20 million units. Sony also doesn’t say how many of those PS4s are the new Pro model, though back in June the company claimed that one in every five new sales was a Pro.
But the PS4’s new milestone does compare favorably to other recent video game hardware launches. Nintendo’s 3DS handheld, for instance, has sold 68 million units since launching in 2011, while the Switch has sold just over 7 million units in its debut year. Along with the hardware numbers, Sony also says that more than 617 million PS4 games have been sold to date, both digitally and at retail. However, it’ll require some big sales spikes to surpass the PS2, currently the best-selling console of all time at 155 million units sold.
On the virtual reality front, PlayStation VR has also hit a new milestone topping 2 million units sold. That number suggests that interest is picking up; it took eight months for the VR headset to hit 1 million units, and it doubled that number in just six months. In August, Sony cut the price of the headset, and then in October the company introduced a slightly redesigned version. Sony also says that more than 12 million PSVR games have been sold as of this month, but what’s in store for the future of the platform is still unclear as of now.
“We’re still trying to understand exactly what people are going to want to do in that medium,” Sony Interactive Entertainment America president Shawn Layden told The Verge back in June. “It’s hard to make predictions about it. People will want it to be smaller, lighter, wireless — these are all things we’re looking at from a conventional iteration process. But I don’t presume to be able to tell you what VR is going to look like in the year 2018 or 2019. We’re going to find out together as we go along.”


Google today is launching a new search feature that will have celebrities answering commonly searched questions about themselves in the form of selfie videos that show up at the top of mobile search results. Now, if you’re curious how many languages does Priyanka Chopra speak or if Will Ferrell can really play the drums, you can watch a pre-recorded video from Chopra or Ferrell answering the question, offering a “uniquely personal, authentic and delightful touch straight from the source.”
Other celebrities who have recorded videos for the launch include Nick Jonas, Mark Wahlberg, James Franco, and Gina Rodriguez. From the sound of it, Google may been inspired by Wired’s new video series that asks celebrities to answer commonly Googled questions about themselves. One of the best involves Ryan Reynolds and Jake Gyllenhaal bantering over whether Ryan Gosling is related to Reynolds:
The difference here, however, is that the videos live directly in search, so they’ll show up on the mobile web and through Google-owned apps and not just on a standard website video player or YouTube embed. The feature is currently being piloted on mobile in the US, the company says. Google is also considering expanding the feature to include lesser known celebrities in the coming months.



I never realized just how many ways there were for a queen to die. In the case of the late Queen Elizabeth, it was cruelty; her people lived in squalor, and eventually they rose up and killed her. Her descendant, Mikki, didn’t fare much better despite a wildly different personal philosophy. She was so beloved she ended up trampled during a stampede for her affection. At times, it feels like there’s no right way to be: no matter how sweet or stern of a monarch you are, a cruel death always awaits you in the end. Such is life in Reigns: Her Majesty, a deceptively simple new strategy game that shows just how tough it can be to be queen.
Her Majesty is a standalone spinoff of the original Reigns, which came out last year and put players in the role of a medieval king trying to successfully navigate the tricky world of running an entire kingdom. At their core, the two games are the same, playing out sort of like a cross between Tinder and a deck of tarot cards. Essentially, the games are boiled down to a series of binary decisions. You’ll be shown a card that asks whether you want to build a new tower for your city, punish a cardinal for lewd behavior, or any manner of other quandaries. Making a choice is as easy as swiping left or right on the card, which then brings up a new card with yet another decision to make.
This structure makes the game seem simple, but you have to weigh each choice carefully. There’s a strategic element at play. You need to balance your decisions between four elements — the church, your subjects, the military, and the budget — and pleasing someone almost always means hurting someone else. Each group is represented by a gauge, and if any one gets too full or too empty, that’s the end of your reign. Anger the church too much and you’ll be burned at the stake; become too rich and your jewel-encrusted carriage will get so heavy it causes a bridge to collapse.
This was all true of the original Reigns, and the follow-up builds off of that concept with a much more intriguing story. Being a queen in this fantasy realm is … well, it kind of sucks. You have to deal with all kinds of complications your male counterpart didn’t, like how you dress, or whether you’re seen as a faithful companion to your new husband. In a game like Reigns, one that’s almost entirely about making decisions while trying to satisfy multiple sides, this premise leads to all kinds of interesting dilemmas.
Unlike the original game, you’re not really the one in charge in Her Majesty. You’re a queen married to a king, and the inherent power imbalance means you have to think things through a little more. When I first started, I tried to be a Cersei Lannister type, wielding power from behind the scenes. But my cold and calculating personality meant the citizens hated me, and eventually rose up in revolt. Later, I tried to be a much warmer, more caring leader, only to accidentally drain the kingdom’s coffers and leave everyone destitute.
Her Majesty never tells you overtly that this is an oppressive society for women. Instead it skillfully weaves commentary on sexism throughout the entire experience. Being a queen changes what you can do, what you can say, and how people perceive you. If you defy the church, the game describes you as “forever an icon to disobedient women.” When you take a firm hand and make key decisions, officials will wonder why the king entertains your “girlish ideas.” The writing is witty and clever, with just the right amount of bite.
Her Majesty encourages experimenting with different kinds of lives. You’re essentially being reincarnated as a different queen in each playthrough, and what you do in one lifetime will influence the next. If you follow a particular path, like endearing yourself to a mystical cult or sending out explorers to search undiscovered lands, you’ll unlock new cards for the next playthrough that open up even more options.
Success in Her Majesty means accomplishing specific goals while still keeping the kingdom in balance. Often these objectives run counter to each other. More than once, I found myself making a choice I didn’t really want to — like punishing a young maiden for my husband’s indiscretions — because it meant I’d be able to play just a little bit longer and potentially discover a new character or plot twist. A single lifetime in Her Majesty is short, often lasting just a few minutes, which makes for an incredibly hard-to-put-down experience. I kept wanting to play just one more turn to see what new thing was around the corner. Her Majesty also introduces a new item system that lets you occasionally use certain objects — like a spellbook or dueling pistol — to bypass the choices offered and go in a different direction.
What makes it all work is the wonderfully tense and often strange stories you’ll uncover. The world of Her Majesty is filled with all kinds of quirky characters, like a shut-in doctor who doesn’t quite seem to grasp real scientific concepts, or the assassin who maybe also wants to be friends. The game gives you specific objectives to encourage you to try different things, but for me they were mostly unnecessary: I found it a lot of fun to try out different options and personalities every time I played. And as weird as the game can get, many of the decisions feel grounded in a way that often made me struggle to pick just one, knowing how it would ultimately hurt people.
There are times you’ll see cards and scenarios repeated from previous lifetimes, and there were rare moments where it wasn’t clear why my decision led to a particular outcome. But for the most part, Her Majesty does a remarkable job at making each life feel unique, and giving you enough information to feel at least somewhat in control of your destiny. Even the deaths are fun to uncover. They’re so plentiful, and often so bizarre, that it’s hard to be mad when you end up dying because of a magical spell gone awry. And after a few lifetimes, Her Majesty starts to reveal itself as something much bigger than it initially seems, making you want to dig in even more.
Really, Her Majesty is the ideal sequel. It takes what was already a smart premise, and adds to it sparingly, but cleverly. Playing as a queen offers more tough decisions to make, and more interesting places to explore. It’s a lot more fun — even if it means more dying.
Reigns: Her Majesty is available today on iOS, Android, and PC.


What does the future of robotics look like? Nobody knows for sure, but Honda seems pretty certain it’ll be cute. At CES next January, the Japanese manufacturer will show off a quartet of new robot concepts, including a companion bot, an autonomous off-road vehicle, and a pair of “mobility” concepts — for moving people and things about. Two of them have actual cute faces, and the other two are at least extremely non-threatening.
But why make robots that look like this? In Honda’s case it’s because the company sees the future of robotics as rooted in human interaction. Honda’s bipedal Asimo is the face (and body) of the firm’s robotics research, but its other major products include the Uni-Cub, a wheel you sit down on a steer by leaning; and the Walking Assist — a harness you wear around your hips, and that helps you walk.
Machines like this that help with mobility are particularly crucial in Japan, a country that’s turning to robots to help look after a rapidly-aging population. And if your robots are going to be helping people all day, we know that things will go smoother if they at least look friendly.
From left to right below you can see the smiling companion bot (3E-A18) which “shows compassion to humans with a variety of facial expressions”; the “chair-type mobility concept” (3E-B18), designed for “casual use” in indoor or outdoor spaces; another “mobility concept with multi-functional cargo space” (3E-C18); and an “autonomous off-road concept” (3E-D18) which basically looks like a quad-bike. All these are concept vehicles, which means Honda has no plans right now to actually sell them.
We’ve already seen the robot second from the right, 3E-C18, when it showed up earlier this year at the Tokyo Motor Show as a self-driving cooler. We’ll be taking a closer look at the other three at CES in January. Stay tuned.


If you like your stuff to be ultra exclusive and ultra expensive, then LG has the phone for you. The LG Signature Edition has a shell made of Zirconium Ceramic, which the company claims won’t scratch (but will it shatter?) even over time. Those able to get their hands on one can have their names engraved on the back. The phone is limited to 300 handsets to be sold exclusively in South Korea at a price of 2 million won (around $1,800), which is a lot more than that other very expensive phone, the iPhone X, which costs 1.42 million won locally.
But what you’re actually getting here is a ceramic LG V30 running Android Oreo (8.0) with only a modicum of system tweaks. The Signature Edition features the same 6-inch OLED display, Qi wireless charging, and a main camera with f/1.6 aperture, only with a bit more RAM (6GB instead of 4GB), and internal memory (256GB). It also ships with a wired and wireless pair of B&O headphones, but is all that really worth $1,000 more than an $800 V30?
I guess you really can put a price on luxury.


Bitcoin’s value crossed the $15,000 threshold for the first time today, marking another milestone in its dizzying ascent. In recent months, the cryptocurrency has undergone a staggering increase in value; surging from roughly $3,500 in mid-September to its current price. And at the start of the year, a single Bitcoin was worth less than $800.
What happens next is anyone’s guess, and most analysts are united only in their uncertainty over the cryptocurrency’s future. Bitcoin long ago stopped being useful for actually buying things (partly because of its rocketing value and partly because of achingly-slow transaction times), so the questions facing speculators are: is this a bubble? And if so, when will it burst?
Some traders figure we’re getting close, and are preparing to short Bitcoin; that is, make bets that its value will decrease in the future. “[It’s] one of the greatest shorting opportunities ever,” cryptocurrency Lou Kerner told Bloomberg earlier this week. “You have a lot of zealotry, and a lot of people, including me, who think it’s the greatest thing to ever happen in the history of mankind. You have a lot of people who think it’s a bubble and a Ponzi scheme. It turns out both of them can’t be right.”
Although the general trend for Bitcoin’s valuation is only up, the cryptocurrency has been extremely volatile. On November 29th, for example, its value fell 20 percent in less than an hour and half; dropping from over $11,000 a tick above $9000. For true believers, such blips are only temporary, but skeptics caution that any plunge could end up being permanent. After crossing $15,000 earlier today it’s value quickly dipped down to around $14,800.
Bitcoin’s skyrocketing valuation has also brought with it a new problem: energy costs. It takes enormous amounts of power to sustain the Bitcoin network, and, according to a report from Ars Technica, it’s estimated that the cryptocurrency currently consumes as much electricity annually as the whole of Denmark. Predicting exactly how this consumption will rise or fall in the future is difficult (it depends on things like the rate at which new bitcoins are mined and the number of transactions), but given that Bitcoin only currently has use as a speculative asset class, it seems unsustainable.
Meanwhile, financial experts are struggling to make sense of the phenomenon as a whole. One analyst quoted by the Financial Times, Walter Zimmerman, suggests that the best way to look at Bitcoin is as an absurd video game with no boundaries. “Users of other currencies find utility in a stable value. But not here in Bitcoin world,” writes Zimmerman. “The reality of Bitcoin is that users are also players. And the objective of this game is the highest possible score.” But how much higher can it go?


Last month, there was speculation from KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo indicating that we could see three new full-screen iPhones with notched displays launch in 2018: one with a 6.5-inch OLED display, another with a 5.8-inch OLED like the iPhone X, and still another with a 6.1-inch LCD display. Now, a report by Nikkei (and spotted by 9to5Mac) says that the LCD model “will probably sport a metal back” and be “available in several colors.” The paper cites a single unnamed source that supports Kuo’s claim of two premium OLED-based iPhones, but differs slightly on the dimensions of what would presumably be the Plus model. “One about 6.3 inches long and the other 5.8 inches,” reports Nikkei citing its source.
While the glass on the front and back of all three of the latest iPhone models is super glossy and luxe, the cost to repair them can quickly burn a hole in your pocket. Repairing the iPhone X’s screen costs $279, more than twice the price of an iPhone 6 screen replacement ($129), and about 65 percent higher than the iPhone 8’s screen ($169). Further, the glass on the back of the iPhone 8 is more expensive to fix than its front display. Moving to an aluminum back on the rumored 6.1-inch LCD phone would better position it as the base model iPhone and probably save Apple, and iPhone buyers, a few bucks in the process.



Xiaomi showed off the first pictures of its new Redmi 5 and Redmi 5 Plus earlier this week, and now the smartphones have been revealed in full. Redmi is Xiaomi's brand that attempts to deliver solid products at extremely low prices; the new devices follow the Redmi 4 and Redmi Note 4, which became the two most popular phones in India this year.
As was apparent from the pictures, the Redmi 5 and 5 Plus bring a very 2017-style 18:9 design to the Redmi line, with rounded corners and thin bezels on the top and bottom of the screen. Around the back there's a fingerprint sensor and a single camera, and the phone's body is made from aluminium. It comes in blue, pink, gold, and black.
Here are the rest of the specs:
The Redmi 5 starts at 799 yuan (about $120) for the 2GB RAM and 16GB storage model, with 899 yuan (~$135) getting you 3GB of RAM and 32GB of storage. The 5 Plus starts at 999 yuan (~$150) for the 3GB/32GB model, with a 4GB/64GB variant selling for 1299 yuan (~$180).
These are definitely inexpensive phones by global standards, then, with the 5 Plus sounding like particularly good value. The Snapdragon 625 is a solid processor with great power efficiency, especially when paired with such a large battery, and an 18:9 full-HD display is impressive at this price point. The phones have only been announced for China so far and will be available on December 12th.



OkCupid's bringing one of its desktop features over to iOS this week. The company's Discovery feature, which allows users to search for specific interests, will roll out on Apple devices this week, with an Android launch sometime in the future. Users can type in more general topics like, "hiking," or more specific keywords, like "mom," to find momma's boys or something. The app will then surface people whose profiles contain that word.
I played around with a test build of the feature and found it to be useful if you're hyper-focused on a potential match being interested in the same things as you. I did type in Stranger Things, though, and it didn't populate. That felt like an oversight. I also tried to type in more niche rappers, like Heems and Lil Yachty, and they didn't come up either. I'm sure Stranger Things will be added either in the coming weeks or by launch, but still, the feature could be frustrating if you want to find someone who loves your super unique thing, only to find that the app doesn't have it in its interests bank.
OkCupid director of product Nick Saretzky explained to me that software automatically pulls out words to populate Discovery, but a human has to approve what makes it into the app. This prevents problematic content and other random words from making it to the live product. That makes sense, although wow I feel for the person who has to sift through all these words.
More generally, this Discovery feature builds on one of OkCupid's missions — "substance over selfie" — in that it goes against Tinder swipe culture by letting users get more granular and personal with potential matches. The company still recognizes that users want to connect on their phone, as opposed to an actual computer, so it's good to see desktop features coming to mobile.




The man who was in charge of Volkswagen’s US environmental and engineering office before the Dieselgate scandal has been sentenced to seven years in prison. Oliver Schmidt had previously pleaded guilty to violating the Clean Air Act and conspiracy to defraud the US government in August for his role in Dieselgate, where VW was found to have used hidden software to hide the fact that many of its cars weren’t meeting emissions standards.
The prison term and an accompanying $400,000 fine were announced at a sentencing hearing today in a US District Court in Detroit. They represent the maximum penalties for those charges.
Schmidt originally faced up to 169 years in prison on 11 felony counts before he entered his guilty plea. He is the second VW employee to be sentenced in the United States for his role in the Dieselgate scandal. Former engineer James Liang was sentenced in August to 40 months in prison and a $200,000 fine by the same District Court judge, Sean Cox.
In a letter to the judge published earlier this week, Schmidt said he felt like he was “misused” by VW in the diesel scandal. He argued that he was following a script written by the company’s management and one of its lawyers when he lied to the California Air Resources Board about the compliance of VW’s cars with US regulations, and that he had come on board after the scheme was devised.
Schmidt’s plea for leniency apparently fell flat. Cox called him a “key conspirator” during the sentencing hearing today, according to Automotive News’ Larry Vellequette. Prosecutors in the case used information gleaned from VW’s own internal investigation into the scandal that apparently shows Schmidt deleted documents in an attempt to cover up his actions. Cox saw these and other actions as evidence that Schmidt was trying to use the coverup to advance his career.
Six other executives have been charged in the US over their involvement in the Dieselgate scandal. The company pleaded guilty in March.



All year, legislators have been bracing for a major fight over NSA surveillance. The 2015 bill that reauthorized the Patriot Act is set to expire on December 31st of this year. That would leave just a few weeks left to replace it and potentially add new restrictions to the NSA’s sprawling surveillance powers as part of the deal.
Now, it looks like legislators may have more time than they thought. According to a New York Times report today, the White House believes the Patriot Act’s surveillance provisions won’t expire until four months into 2018. Lawyers point to a one-year certification that was granted on April 26th of last year. If that certification is taken as a legal authorization for the FISA court overall — as White House lawyers suggest — then Congress will have another four months to work out the details of reauthorization.
There are already several proposals for Patriot Act reauthorization in the Senate, which focus the Section 702 provisions that authorize certain types of NSA surveillance. Some of the proposals would close the backdoor search loophole that allows for warrantless surveillance of US citizens, although a recent House proposal would leave it in place. But with Congress largely focused on tax cuts and the looming debt ceiling fight, it’s unlikely the differences could be reconciled before the end of the year.
Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR), a longtime NSA critic, applauded the new deadline when reached by the Times, saying, “Anything now that creates an opportunity for several months of real debate, I’ll listen to."



Lyft’s first self-driving car pilot is officially underway. The company is sending autonomous vehicles — developed by the startup NuTonomy — to pick up passengers in Boston’s Seaport district, which is a growing tech hub. The cars are not completely driverless, as human safety drivers will remain behind the wheel, ready to take control when needed. But it’s a big moment for Lyft, which has seen its star rise this year as its main rival Uber was beset by numerous self-inflicted scandals.
Here’s how it works: riders will randomly be paired with one of NuTonomy’s self-driving cars when they use the Lyft app in the Seaport area. NuTonomy, which spun out of MIT in 2013 and was recently purchased by automotive supplier Delphi, has been operating self-driving cars in Boston since January. The company has been testing in Boston’s Raymond L. Flynn Marine Park, a small industrial zone that doesn’t fully represent the kinds of environments a driver would encounter around the city.
“Our partnership with Lyft has two goals,” NuTonomy says in a blog post. “First, we want to let members of the public experience driverless vehicles firsthand, so they can better understand the impact this new technology will have on their lives. Second, based on feedback from pilot participants, NuTonomy’s engineers will adapt and improve our system, so that we can deliver an autonomous transportation experience that is extremely safe, efficient, and comfortable.”
NuTonomy isn’t the only self-driving company to team up with Lyft. The ride-hail company is working with Drive.ai to deploy autonomous taxis in San Francisco, and also has agreements with Ford and Alphabet’s Waymo.
Lyft is trying to catch up to the self-driving efforts of rival Uber, which is operating its own autonomous taxis in Pittsburgh and Phoenix. While Uber may be ahead, it is also mired in exponentially more problems than Lyft. The company is being sued by Waymo, which alleges the theft of many of its self-driving car secrets. And Uber’s vehicles have been involved in numerous accidents and traffic infractions, raising questions about their safety.
Lyft has won new investments and locked down key partnerships with a broad cast of tech and auto companies. And with its commitment to building its own in-house self-driving software, Lyft seems to be on its way to developing a “full stack” of technology to enable a release of self-driving taxis on its platform.


Steam is no longer accepting bitcoin as a payment method, game company and distributor Valve announced today. The company is attributing its decision to cryptocurrency’s “high fees and volatility.” In a blog post, Valve explained that bitcoin transaction fees have gone up to nearly $20 per transaction last week, “compared to roughly $0.20 when we initially enabled Bitcoin.” Those fees then have to be shouldered by gamers making purchases on Steam, and the total cost to consumers could be even higher if the value of bitcoin dips in the meantime.
Even if the value of bitcoin were to go up while the user completes the transaction, and Steam has to refund the difference to the user, the transaction fee must be paid by the user again for the refund. “This year, we’ve seen increasing number[s] of customers get into this state,” the post states. There’s even the scenario, Valve explains, that as the user or Steam tries to cover the difference in value, the value of bitcoin then changes again, causing more problems.
Steam says it could reconsider this decision to remove bitcoin as a payment option in the future, if the currency finds more stability, but for now it’s just working with any customers who are still dealing with underpayments or transaction fees. Just last week, the value of bitcoin skyrocketed past $10,000, marking a 933 percent increase since January of this year. Other governments in China, South Korea, Russia, and elsewhere around the world have taken a more stern look at cryptocurrency and implemented regulations or outright bans.


Every day on the subway, I’m confronted with ads that suggest I don’t know how to clothe or feed myself, and it seems like there’s no shortage of unnecessary subscription-box services no one asked for. The fake company Coal parodies this coddling startup phenomenon with its own subscription-box service that “sends you a real piece of coal (in fancy, Warby Parker-esque packaging) right in time for the holidays.”
Coal’s very real website features four different coal product packages you can actually purchase. My favorite is “the Winona.” The product description only reads, “Women!!!!!!!” All four coal sets are on sale now for $20 (marked down from $45). Doing the math described for transparency in the company’s video, that means it makes a profit of $20. So transparent!
Comedians Carina Hsieh (who co-created the brilliant MTA-riding commuter Barbie commercial) and Nicole Boyce came up with the concept pretty quickly: “We're suckers for good packaging and that sans-serif minimal aesthetic that seems to be on every sponsored FB ad / L Train ad nowadays, so it was a natural fit,” Hsieh told The Verge via email. “Since we interact with brands like these every day, it was relatively easy to say, "Okay, let's take this startup / direct-to-consumer" vibe, and push it to its most extreme, and see what it looks like,” Boyce added.
We’ve written about a lot of terrible Kickstarters on Circuit Breaker, but for every awful idea out there, there are at least a thousand more that never see the light of day. Just this week, I got pitched on a “crime-fighting flashlight” called D.A.D.2, and its marketing peg was that it was designed by a father with seven daughters. Watching Coal’s promo video, I shuddered at the similarities to Kickstarter videos that start by broadly retelling history. It’s an eerily accurate, spot-on impression of the state of startups.
Hsieh and Boyce say creating all the assets — the site, the video, and the photos — took about a month. Coal shows just how easy it is to create a brand and start a company, no matter how far-fetched your product is. All you need is a Squarespace website, a meticulously crafted Instagram grid, an intern-run Twitter account, and a Facebook presence. “We went from just creating a stunt video to actually wanting to sell our Coal and do it right! It didn't really make sense to create a business, but then do everything but the actual business part,” Boyce said.
To make things really official, the company launched with a screening and faux-panel at co-working space The Yard, where The Daily Beast tech reporter Taylor Lorenz interviewed Hsieh and Boyce, in character as COAL co-founders “Darby Larker” and “Sam Serif.” A “protester” was even present to hand out pamphlets on coal’s environmental impact.
There are plenty of gag holiday gifts already, like this decorative lump of coal from Target, but the millennial in your life would probably appreciate the same gift in fancy subscription-box form. The company is fake, the address listed on the website is the New York location of Chick-fil-A, and the phone number is Greenpeace’s support line, but Coal is still a real product. You can buy a one-time purchase of a “trial” month, and a portion of the proceeds will go to the Natural Resources Defense Council.


Qualcomm has just revealed the details of its new Snapdragon 845 mobile processor, which will show up in smartphones and laptops starting early next year. The Snapdragon 845 is the direct successor to 2017’s 835, which proved to be wildly popular for flagship Android smartphones. Like its predecessors, the 845 is not just a processor, but an alphabet soup of processors and systems, such as a CPU, GPU, ISP, and DSP, all contained on a single unit. In addition, the platform utilizes Qualcomm’s latest gigabit LTE and Wi-Fi modems for connectivity.
The big new feature for this year is the ability to capture 4K video in HDR at up to 60 frames per second. The 845 can also shoot slo-mo 720p video at 480 frames per second and 240 frames per second 1080p video. For still photography, the 845’s Spectra 280 ISP can perform multiframe noise reduction on 16-megapixel images at 60 frames per second. It also supports supports a wider color gamut and 10 bit color depth for 64 times as many color shades as before.
There are a lot of other improvements with the 845, including better performance, better connectivity, and more efficient power usage. Qualcomm says its new Adreno 630 GPU provides 30 percent better graphics, 30 percent better power efficiency, and 2.5x faster display throughput. It also supports room scale 6DOF and can map rooms in real time for VR and AR applications.
The TrueWireless Bluetooth 5 system will let a single device broadcast audio to multiple speakers or headphones simultaneously. The company also says this system can provide a 50% improvement in power consumption for truly wireless headphones.
The X20 gigabit LTE modem supports 20 percent faster peak and real-world speeds over the X16 from last year. Qualcomm says the new chip’s combination of licensed and unlicensed spectrum enables 90 percent of carriers to deploy gigabit services.
The Snapdragon 845 is expected to be available in smartphones as early as spring 2018, and will likely appear on devices from Samsung, HTC, LG, Google, and others. It will also make its way to Windows 10 PCs by the end of the year.
Update, 8:45PM ET, December 6th, 2017: Qualcomm clarified that the Snapdragon 845 platform supports 1080p video recording at up to 240 frames per second, more than the 120 frames per second initially reported. This article has been updated with that information.


Wolves in the Walls VR, a virtual reality adaptation of Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean’s eponymous children’s book, will premiere at next year’s Sundance Film Festival. The episodic experience follows Gaiman’s story as participants play a character who can interact with its young protagonist Lucy, who is convinced that wolves live in the walls of her house. It’s being developed by former members of the now-defunct Oculus Story Studio, resurrecting a project that was believed to be canceled.
Wolves in the Walls’ creators describe it as “​a​ ​VR​ ​fable​ ​about​ ​the​ ​nature​ ​of​ ​fear.​” It’s supposed to evoke the illustrations of a children’s book, similar to what’s seen in the illustration itself, but it’s three-dimensional and interactive. In the first installment, which runs roughly 10 minutes, participants will help Lucy search for evidence of wolves. In two subsequent episodes, they’ll have to help her overcome her fear of the wolves and save her family. The star of the story, though, is Lucy — who’s supposed to feel like a convincingly interactive figure, responding to players’ movements and decisions. She was choreographed with help from Third Rail Projects, the company behind immersive theater productions Then She Fell and Ghostlight.
Director Pete Billington says that Lucy’s design extends work that Oculus Story Studio did on the Emmy Award-winning Henry, which asked participants to emotionally connect with an anthropomorphic hedgehog. Wolves in the Walls is more ambitious and interactive, and its creators aimed for “​compelling​ ​interactive​ ​moments​ ​that​ ​didn’t​ ​distract​ ​from the​ ​narrative​ ​arc.​” Lucy was created with input from game developers who have experience building interactive characters, but VR adds a sense of physical presence and allows for some experiences that most games don’t, like physically handing her objects.
While Wolves in the Walls is being developed independently, it is backed by Oculus Studios, and continues work that was already underway at Story Studio. By this standard, it’s the third major Story Studio project to premiere at Sundance, after 2015’s Lost and last year’s Dear Angelica. Four other Oculus Studios-backed projects will also appear at the festival: Dispatch, about a small-town police dispatcher facing a crime spree; Masters of the Sun, a story about black communities in the 1980s; Space Explorers, a partnership between NASA and VR studio Felix & Paul; and Spheres, a musical “VR journey through the universe.”


Oculus’ Rift Core 2.0 update is now available in beta. The update includes three major parts, which were announced at this fall’s Oculus Connect convention: a revamped interface known as Dash; a customizable space called Home; and a feature called Oculus Desktop, which lets users access their Windows apps and desktop inside VR.
Previously, Oculus Home was a fixed virtual environment that was also the interface’s metaphorical home base: you’d visit to launch apps, but couldn’t do much in it. Now, users can add virtual objects to the space, starting with a catalog of a few hundred items. Some of these are available by default, and others are unlocked by earning in-game achievements, logging in each week, or performing other tasks.
Oculus says it will add more options later, including the ability to add your own objects, like sculptures from its Medium art program. For now, people can look around each other’s home spaces, and a future update is supposed to let users hang out in real time.
The new Dash interface, meanwhile, lets people access normal Oculus interface content as well as desktop apps, which appear as flat windows in the world. VR desktop apps existed already, but a simple baked-in option is an interesting addition for Rift users.


The granddaddy of surreal, science fiction television anthologies is returning. CBS announced today that it has issued a series order for a revival of The Twilight Zone from Jordan Peele’s Monkeypaw Productions and Simon Kinberg’s Genre Films for its All Access streaming service.
Peele and Kinberg, along with Marco Ramirez (Marvel’s The Defenders), will serve as executive producers on the show and will “collaborate on the premiere episode.” CBS has yet to announce a release date, casting, or any other writers attached to the project. Like Star Trek: Discovery, however, the show is destined as exclusive content for the network’s paid streaming service, CBS All Access.
Created by Rod Sterling, the original show premiered on CBS in 1959, telling a series of moralistic, self-contained science fiction, fantasy, and horror stories each week. The show ran for five years, and has since become a major cultural touchstone. This isn’t the first time that CBS has sought to reboot the series. The first effort came in 1985 and lasted for three seasons, while UPN produced a single season of its own reboot in 2002. CBS also began exploring an updated version in 2012 that was to be helmed by X-Men director Bryan Singer, though the project never came to fruition.
Science fiction and horror anthology shows have been on the upswing in recent years, and it looks as though CBS is hoping to capitalize on the trend. The UK’s Channel 4 and Netflix have scored their own Twilight Zone-style hit with Charlie Booker’s Black Mirror, while Amazon Studios has released a series based on the podcast Lore, and is also readying Philip K. Dick’s Electric Dreams, which will feature adaptations of the late author’s numerous short stories in an anthology format.
Peele seems like a good choice to head up the revival, especially after his critical success with this year’s Get Out, a Twilight Zone-esque horror thriller that used genre tropes to explore race and other social issues, with plenty of unexpected and politically-pointed twists. Earlier this year, he told The Verge that he hoped to direct more of what he termed “social thrillers,” a goal which aligns neatly with the mission of The Twilight Zone. This isn’t Peele’s only television project, either. He’s currently working on an adaptation of Matt Ruff’s 2016 novel Lovecraft Country for HBO.



My advice to readers who disagree with Polygon’s reviews has always been to find a critic you do agree with and take them at their word.
For some, that may be the Wendy’s Twitter account.
In a strange crossover of Twitter worlds (Film Twitter and Fast Food Twitter), critics, reporters and even studios have started to ask the anonymous Wendy’s social media manager for advice on topics ranging from the new Greta Gerwig movie, Lady Bird, to whether Twin Peaks is a movie or TV series.
The Wendy’s Twitter account, notorious for owning trolls and producing quality level tweets in the past, began to answer earnestly, causing even more people to pick the brain of the social media manager behind the fast food chain with the best chicken nuggets. (Editor’s note: That is fact. Please fight amongst yourselves in the comments.)
First thing to note: Wendy’s loved Blade Runner 2049, The Big Sick and Get Out, as did we! Solid tastes so far.
Lady Bird was pretty great. Also, enjoyed The Big Sick and Get Out, and Logan remains surprisingly high on the list. Also, Blade Runner was visually stunning.
Like any good critic on the internet, Wendy’s judgement was tested. A24, the studio behind Lady Bird, pressed Wendy’s to explain what they liked about the movie. Doing the best they could with only 280 characters, Wendy’s took up the task with confidence and bravery.
I think they did a pretty good job and would like to offer the Wendy’s social media manager the opportunity to write about it at length for Polygon.
This is all happening so fast. A great example of the confusion found while coming of age, great dynamic between Lady Bird and her mother, and an interesting look at class differences and their affect on the mentality of youth.
Wendy’s caught the attention of food and movie lovers all over Twitter, which meant people wanted to pick the brain of this film aficionado. The next topic? Twin Peaks.
If we call it a movie, then where do we actually draw the line between television and film. The current line seems to be making one episodic, though the current trend in superhero movies could also be called episodic. Hard to tell.
That certainly counts as fast food for thought! Wendy’s even gave some insight into which movies they were excited to see in the future. Guillermo del Toro’s The Shape of Water sits at the top of that list.
For real excited to see it
People were just starting to get into Wendy’s film criticism when head office shut down all hope of the Wendy’s account turning into a full fledged movie reviewing service.
At least we got to experience this magical moment for a little bit. I’ll never think of Twin Peaks the same.
We’ll bother the Wendy’s account for an official review of Star Wars: The Last Jedi once their social media manager sees it.


There’s been a growing movement within the science fiction community to imagine the future as something other than a dreary dystopia. That’s what Arizona State University is doing with a new digital anthology called Visions, Ventures, Escape Velocities: A Collection of Space Futures.
The book comes from the university’s Center for Science and the Imagination (CSI), which was founded in 2012 to bring together artists, scientists, and engineers to think about the future. CSI has produced similar anthologies in the past, including the Neal Stephenson-edited Hieroglyph: Stories and Visions for a Better Future, which sought to recapture science fiction’s legacy of optimism.
Visions, Ventures, Escape Velocities is all about the coming future of space travel, with stories from a fantastic lineup of authors: Madeline Ashby, Steven Barnes, Eileen Gunn, Ramez Naam, Carter Scholz, Karl Schroeder, and Vandana Singh. They write about the challenges of and intersections between public and private space travel, with stories set in low Earth orbit, Mars, the asteroid belt, and beyond. The book also includes an interview with New York 2140 author Kim Stanley Robinson, and a series of related essays.
The book is free to download in ePub, Mobi, iBook, and PDF formats, or you can order a physical paperback. There’s even a version aimed at kids and educators, which takes out the profanity.


Lytro’s once futuristic “living pictures,” which photographers and viewers alike were able to refocus to their heart’s content after they were taken, are now almost totally dead. The company recently pulled hosting support for pictures.lytro.com, which is where all photos with Lytro cameras had to be shared in order to allow users to play with the refocusing and 3D depth features. This move has subsequently killed all the Lytro photos embedded across the internet (including in our 2014 review of the Illum, Lytro’s second — and last — consumer camera).
Living pictures will still work in Lytro’s desktop app, but in order to share photos taken with the company’s cameras going forward, users will have to export them as .mov, .gif, or static JPGs.
“More than two years ago, Lytro began focusing on Light Field video solutions for the cinema and virtual reality industries and discontinued the manufacturing and distribution of Lytro cameras for photography,” the company wrote on a support page of its website. “As a part of our plan to further focus on these new efforts, the ability to publish from Lytro Desktop and Lytro Mobile to pictures.lytro.com will be discontinued.”
Lytro’s cameras worked thanks to something called light field photography, where individual rays of light are captured along with data that describes where they came from in 3D space. This allowed Lytro to build software (on the desktop, on the web, and on the cameras themselves) that used all this information in novel ways, like changing the focus point of an image.
Unfortunately, the company’s consumer cameras were never very good. The original — a lipstick tube of a camera — was more or less just a proof of concept. And while the Illum occasionally wowed, the process of shooting (and especially editing) living pictures was too much of a chore to ever justify its $1,500 price tag.
Lytro started its shift away from consumer cameras not long after the Illum was released. And the company seems to have found success in translating its light field tech to the worlds of professional cinema and virtual reality, where issues like size and speed sometimes matter less, especially if the tradeoff is heaps and heaps of volumetric data.
But another reason Lytro’s consumer efforts failed was also the same reason it felt like it would succeed. The core idea Lytro first explored — being able to correctly focus a photo that you screwed up — was so powerful that it proliferated into some smartphone and traditional digital cameras. They’re often locked to a specific shooting mode (like Selective Focus on Samsung’s phones, for example), but the fact remains that these companies found ways to mimic Lytro’s fancy, expensive, and slow light field capture process with just software, and deliver it in a product that’s already in your pocket.


Michael Shannon isn’t just a screen villain. He’s frequently played soulful, sympathetic heroes, particularly in the films of writer-director Jeff Nichols (Shotgun Stories, Take Shelter, Midnight Special). His stage career, as an actor, director, and co-founder of Chicago’s Red Orchid Theatre, has let him take on a wide variety of characters, like the embattled, disintegrating romantic lead in the stage and film version of Tracy Letts’ grueling Bug. And he’s been nominated twice for Best Supporting Actor Oscars, in both cases for sympathetic parts: as a mentally ill man in Revolutionary Road, and a fascinating detective in Nocturnal Animals.
But Shannon is an intense, fervent actor, and that makes his villain roles in films like Guillermo del Toro’s new horror / romance / fantasy The Shape of Water standout. Strickland, a government agent working behind the scenes to counter Russian space supremacy in the 1950s, is vehemently opposed to the kinds of creature-feature freaks of nature that often become the stars of del Toro films like Hellboy and Pan’s Labyrinth. Shannon plays Strickland as a disintegrating man (literally, at points) who’s laser-focused on enforcing a white, suburban, two-kids-and-a-dog vision of America, and doesn’t understand why it isn’t making him happy. Strickland is in keeping with some of Shannon’s other memorable villain roles — Prohibition agent Nelson Van Alden in HBO’s Boardwalk Empire, legendary mob hitman Richard Kuklinski in 2013’s The Iceman, or Kryptonian antagonist General Zod in Zack Snyder’s Man of Steel. The character has some depth and nuance, but that doesn’t make his intentions any less horrifying, or their execution any less unsettling.
I recently sat down with Shannon in Chicago to talk about del Toro’s political symbolism in The Shape of Water, what’s going on in Strickland’s head, and what “Shannoning” means to the film’s cast.
Leading up to this film, you often talked about how excited you were to work with Guillermo del Toro. What about working with him was compelling to you?
His vocabulary. His cinematic vocabulary. When I saw Pan’s Labyrinth, I thought, “This is a standalone movie. There’s no other movie — it defies genre. It defies comparison. It is like a crystal-pure thing that came from this man’s mind and his heart. I was very moved by it. So ever since I saw it, I was a big fan of his. I was out in LA, and we had lunch, and he said, “You know, I’ve been tinkering around with this script for a while now on this idea, and I think I finally got it about where I want it. I’ve had you in mind.” This was very flattering.
What’s he like with actors? How does working with him differ from working with someone like Jeff Nichols or Zack Snyder?
You know, that’s a difficult question to answer, really. The trick, I think, with directing, is that you have a vision. Good directors are very prepared, and have spent a lot of time considering their vision. Guillermo is a huge believer in preparation. He wants to sit down with the actors weeks in advance of shooting. He wants to rehearse, he wants to go through the whole script. He wants to come up with the backstory of the character. He gave me a backstory to Strickland. He’s like, “You’re welcome to elaborate on this, or go any way you want about it, but for what it’s worth, this is what I thought. This is how this character came into my imagination.”
So you have to have that very definitive vision of the story and the characters in the film, but also be constantly on the lookout for things that will surprise you. Things that were unforeseen to you, no matter how much preparation you did. Happy accidents, you know? This requires a great amount of attention and concentration. And you have to make the actors feel comfortable and relaxed enough so that they’re not stymied, so their blood is flowing, and they’re breathing normally, and they can have an organic moment.
Guillermo’s very masterful at that. He has a great combination of seriousness and fun, serious fun. When he can feel something coming to life, there’s such a joy about it that it’s infectious. There’s a giddiness about really cracking into a particular scene, or a particular moment.
Can you think of anything specific on the set where he did something particularly funny or joyous?
[Laughs] I’ve shot about 500 movies since I shot Shape of Water, so I’m not really sure I’m going to be able to answer that question. All I can say is that he caught on very early that I was pretty relentless about things. I’m very meticulous. I don’t like to leave a scene. I like to do lots of takes. Oftentimes I’ll come up with something in the first three takes that the director will say, “Well, that’s perfectly usable. That serves the function I was looking for.” And I’ll be like, “No, we can’t move on. I know we’re close to something, I know there’s something more here. What about this version, or what about that version?” And I think because Guillermo has a similar kind of neurosis, he was tickled to see someone who might actually have it worse than he does.
On set, they came up with this idea, this vernacular — this is embarrassing, I can’t really do this without sounding like I’m trying to glorify myself. But Octavia [Spencer] came up with this term on set, “Shannoning,” where you get something right in one take. Every once in a while, after one take, Guillermo would be like “That’s perfect!” and Octavia would say, “I Shannoned it!” It became part of our vernacular. But even if I got, early on, what he was going for, I always wanted to keep kicking it around, just because it was so delicious. A delicious character is such a rare opportunity. You don’t get opportunities like Shape of Water very often.
But specific examples? I don’t know. We were shooting nights in the rain, and those scenes were tough. And I had the luxurious honor of being in two. Most everyone else only had to do one of them, because there’s one with me and Michael Stuhlbarg, and there’s another at the end of the movie, and I’m in both. So I spent a few nights up all night in the cold, drenching, soaking wet. Which really builds character. But those are the nights where you really find out who everybody is.
But even on those nights, Guillermo was happy. He was so happy to be making this movie. I think he’d really wanted to make it for a long time.
Do you find it easier to get to where you want to be with the character when you’re on the set, in costume, with everyone around you and the cameras going? Do you want that live exploration, rather than doing it in rehearsal?
If the material’s strong enough, I don’t think you’re ever done exploring, ever. On stage, in the theater, I’ve done some very long runs of plays, and I’ve done plays more than once. I just finished going back to a play I had done five years ago. If the writing is strong enough… there are so many different variables. Every single moment, something different could happen. I’ve never been able to convince myself that a take is the absolute right thing. I have a very chaotic mind. So I gravitate toward chaos.
Do you prefer a director who’s very ordered, and will complement you and challenge that impulse? Or would you rather work with someone who’s equally chaotic, and can roll with the experiments?
There needs to be some structure. Otherwise, you end up with Apocalypse Now. I’ve certainly had times — and I’m not going to go into who, what, where, or how — but I’ve seen certain people in the directorial position where I’ve been like, “You need to know better what you’re trying to do.” It’s a combination. It’s a balance. It can’t be all one thing.
I’ve worked with some of the old-school directors, like Sidney Lumet, who’s like, “We’re going to be done in eight hours every day, because I know exactly what this is, and I’m not going to fuck around and waste people’s time. We’re going to go home at a decent hour to have dinner with our families.” And that’s good. I’ve loved that, too. That was one of the highlights of my career. And that’s not chaos, that’s Sidney saying, “This is the story. This is what happens.”
More than anything, I just enjoy variety. I enjoy working with different people on different stories in different places. Acting is the opposite of going for 40 years every day to the same office and having lunch in the same restaurant. It’s the exact opposite.
In an interview about Frank & Lola, you described your character Frank as having a frightening emptiness inside him that he tried to fill with other people. That feels like it would apply to Strickland, and to a lot of characters you play, though they use different things to fill that emptiness. Do you see any similarity between these characters?
Wow, that’s a really interesting question. I don’t think Frank is as uptight as Strickland. Strickland is an uptight guy. He’s really bought hook, line, and sinker into the whole thing of, “If you follow the rules, and do what your boss tells you to do, you’re going to have a nice life. You’re going to get a nice car and a nice house, and your wife’s going to make you happy, and everything’s going to be okay.” The sparkling-chrome version of life that was the ideal in that period of time in our culture, and even to a certain extent, nowadays, although we’re much more cynical. I don’t think Frank would have necessarily fallen for that ruse. He’s a little more worldly.
It just seems like Strickland has that emptiness, too.
Well yeah, it’s not working. Nothing he’s doing is working. And that’s an emptiness and an anxiety. Guillermo and I talked about that a lot, the anxiety of that equation: “Well, if I do this, I’m going to get this. But wait a minute. That’s not true.” And this unease that it may not be true. That’s what he really wanted to capture in the character of Strickland.
That feels like an anxiety we’re seeing a lot right now in America: that fear of missing something, of not being able to find happiness. And a lot of people are expressing it the way he does, with sadism and racism and prejudice. Trying to find someone to blame, trying to make other people unhappy as well.
I welcome all of that discussion about this film. I think Guillermo does as well. At the end of the day, it’s really about love and beauty, and it should be an entertaining experience. I think Guillermo would probably off himself if he thought we’d made a boring movie. But Guillermo’s a deeply political person, and I am, too. And if this movie, and Strickland in particular, leads people to have that kind of discussion, I would welcome that. It’s essential. In a way, it’s a huge responsibility. I welcome it.
Because I want to understand it, too. I don’t just hate people that voted for Trump. I’m trying to figure out what’s going on. And one of the ways of doing that is trying to have empathy for these people. It was the same thing when people were like, “Well, how can you play the Iceman, Richard Kuklinski?” I’m like, “Well, I can play him because I’m kinda curious, what would make a guy do something like that?” Don’t people want to know that? I wanna know it. And I said at the time, when I was playing Kuklinski, “Look, this is a very over-the-top, exacerbated version of how a lot of guys make their dough.” A lot of people are living off the misfortune of other people. And then they come home, and they tuck their kids in the bed and say goodnight, and they say their prayers just like everybody else. And they don’t look at themselves as bad people.
But that’s how a lot of people make their money nowadays. The people that are making money, nine out of 10 of them, that’s how they’re making it, by other people getting screwed over. And so I was like, “Let’s look at Kuklinski like a Grimm’s fairy tale version of this.” I don’t mean any disrespect to the victims of the crimes he committed. But I’m a storyteller, and these stories, to me, they’re fables. I want them to have that ripple effect in people’s consciousness. I’m not intimidated by that.
Shape of Water is openly a fairy tale, and it’s openly symbolic. Did making it help you answer that question you’re asking, about how people can live their lives like Strickland?
I can understand the fear. I can understand the anxiety. I can understand, much more, that people are desperate. And people feel like they have not been given the answers they deserve or need. But at the end of the day, playing a character is not like taking a test. You’re not always necessarily consciously aware of what you’ve learned, or the information you’ve accumulated. But it does play into the membrane of your social interaction with other people. It’s more of an experiential thing. It’s like if you meet somebody, you’re talking to somebody, you’re like, “Oh, this guy reminds me of Strickland.” Trying to see things from that point of view helps inform the way you deal with other people.


Allegations that Google has paid its female employees less than men and given them fewer promotion opportunities have been dismissed for now by a California state judge today, as reported by Reuters.
Superior Court judge Mary Wiss said that the lawsuit, which represented all female Google employees in California, was too vague, and asked that the plaintiffs file a new complaint for only the specific groups of women affected by pay discrimination. Wiss added that two of the three named plaintiffs hadn’t proven that the work they did for Google was equal to the work done by men who had been reportedly paid more.
After Wiss’ concerns were raised, a plaintiff lawyer, James Finberg, said today that he would file a new complaint by early next month.
“We work really hard to create a great workplace for everyone, and to give everyone the chance to thrive here,” Google said in a statement to The Verge. “If we ever see individual discrepancies or problems, we work to fix them.”
The lawsuit was initially filed back in September by three women — Kelly Ellis, Holly Pease, and Kelli Wisuri — who argue that they were placed on lower career tracks than their male colleagues and earned less wages and bonuses as a result. Ellis, for instance, said that she was placed on the front-end team, despite having experience in backend development and that the backend team was more prestigious, well-paid, and male-dominated. All three women have left Google over the past few years.
The case Ellis v. Google is the first lawsuit that accuses Google executives of gender bias, although it’s a commonly raised issue against tech companies, including Twitter and Microsoft. Both companies are also dealing with their similar lawsuits of their own.


Wildfires are spreading unchecked across Southern California, adding more infernos to the state’s worst fire season on record. A warm, dry fall in Southern California and strong offshore winds combined to create dangerous fire conditions that will probably get worse. As the winds continue to blow, a dome of warm, high-pressure air is forming over the West Coast that could keep California dry and flammable for weeks to come.
The largest fire burning in Southern California started in the foothills of Ventura County on Monday evening. Called the “Thomas fire,” it spread overnight to burn more than 65,000 acres, jumped the 101 freeway, and was stopped only by the Pacific Ocean, the LA Times reports. Four more fires are raging from San Bernardino to Santa Clarita.
Hot, dry winds blowing up to 70 miles per hour across Southern California are fanning the flames, but those aren’t unusual for December, says Daniel Swain, a climate scientist at the University of California Los Angeles and writer of the Weather West blog. Called the Santa Ana winds, these southern counterparts to Northern California’s Diablo winds tend to kick up during the fall and continue through the winter.
Today was scariest morning commute of my life: #gettycenter #skirballfire pic.twitter.com/aECWhnJ26I
But something unusual is happening: Southern California’s warm winter dry spell, Swain says. “By this time of year, usually, there’s been some rain that’s wetted things down,” he says in a telephone interview, speaking over the Santa Ana winds howling in the background. “It’s just as dry as it was in the summer months.”
California gets most of its rain between October and May from storms that roll in from the Pacific, riding a highway of strong winds in the upper atmosphere called the jet stream. By now, LA should have been sprinkled by about two inches of rain, National Weather Service meteorologist John Dumas told the LA Times. But so far it’s only seen about 5 percent of that, amounting to about one-tenth of an inch. Burbank, California, has seen even less, says National Weather Service meteorologist David Sweet. Despite the rain that’s been showering Northern California, the bottom part of the state is abnormally dry; certain areas are even experiencing a moderate drought. “We’re quite parched,” Sweet says.
Update: another day, another unbelievably dry forecast for the West Coast. This is a 16-day precipitation accumulation map from GFS model, which suggests that the next 16+ days could be *completely dry* across all of California, Oregon, and Washington!#CAwx #ORwx #WAwx #BCwx pic.twitter.com/pO169CuHl2
Storms in the jet stream can get diverted by high-pressure bubbles of warm air. A version of this phenomenon called an "atmospheric ridge" is to blame for Southern California's current dry spell. And even even bigger one has started forming along the entire West Coast of the US that could shunt rainfall into Canada or Alaska, Swain writes. “We were dry before and now the prospects for rain look even less likely because of the size of this thing,” Sweet says.
This is the same atmospheric phenomenon that squatted over the state for three winters in a row during California’s record-setting, five-year drought. “The real question is how long it persists,” Swains says. During the drought, these ridges lasted for months at a time — but we don’t know what’s in store for this new one. Even worse news: these atmospheric ridges are getting more common — possibly thanks to human-caused global warming, Swain and his colleagues reported in a 2016 study.
#Thomasfire has jumped the 101 and headed towards the ocean in #Solimar. pic.twitter.com/xRblkvwyQT
And they could become even more frequent in the future as the polar ice melts, new research says. Scientists led by Ivana Cvijanovic at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory modeled how dwindling Arctic sea ice could affect the global climate over the coming decades. They found that as the sea ice melts, the Arctic warms — starting a chain reaction that ultimately helps these atmospheric ridges form over the North Pacific, blocking rain from falling on California. That doesn’t just make drought more common, it’s also possible that it could also make fire seasons last longer.
The findings, described in a new study published Tuesday in the journal Nature Communications, are a hint of what’s to come — but they’re not a prediction of the future, Cvijanovic cautions. Other shifts in air pollution, greenhouse gasses, and even volcanic activity over the coming decades could also change how much rain falls on California. (In fact, another recent study suggests climate change could make California wetter.)
What’s clear for now is that the dry, windy weather forecast for Southern California means that the firefighters struggling to stop the flames have a long battle ahead of them. “The fire season in Southern California stops when you get enough rain that everything gets wet and turns plump and green,” says Bill Stewart, a forestry specialist at UC Berkeley. “That’s the only thing that’s going to change the system down there.”
Incredible amount of smoke being picked up on satellite right now from the wildfires in Southern California. #ThomasFire #RyeFire #CreekFire pic.twitter.com/vEH3vkm7IJ


Tidal is now compatible with CarPlay, the streaming service announced today. Users will be able to stream music directly through their infotainment systems on the over 200 car models that support Apple CarPlay.
Subscribers will have access to their favorited songs, albums, and playlists through the My Collection section, and a special version of Tidal’s Explore section will let users find new music and podcasts as well as the most played versions of both.
This is the second major update for Tidal’s mobile apps in as many months, after it gained Sonos controls a few weeks ago. Although there is no word if and when Tidal will support Android Auto, CarPlay support is available on iPhone 5 and newer devices today.



Astronomers have spotted the most distant supermassive black hole ever seen in our Universe — a behemoth that’s nearly a billion times more massive than our Sun. This is no ordinary black hole either, but an active one known as a quasar that’s surrounded by a super bright, highly energetic disk of swirling gas and dust. And its discovery could help scientists learn more about what conditions were like when the Universe was still quite young.
The object — detailed in studies published today in Nature and the Astrophysical Journal Letters — gives us a great snapshot of the past. It’s so far away that its light has taken around 13.1 billion years to reach us. And since the Big Bang is thought to have occurred 13.8 billion years ago, astronomers are seeing this black hole as it looked when the Universe was just 690 million years old. On the cosmological timescale, that’s basically when the Universe was a mere toddler.
Scientists aren’t quite sure when the first stars formed after the Big Bang, but studying the gases in this quasar can tell us a bit about how the Universe was evolving at that time. And the search is still on to find more distant quasars, possibly ones that existed at an even earlier time. The more quasars we find, the better portrait astronomers can paint of the early Universe.
“Already we can learn a lot about the early Universe with this one, but of course you want more,” Bram Venemans, a black hole researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Astronomy who was part of the quasar’s discovery, tells The Verge.
Quasars make up the centers of massive galaxies, and they’re thought to be some of the most luminous objects in the Universe. The black holes within them don’t actually emit any light, but the surrounding gas and dust churn so fast and create so much friction that they give off a ton of light and heat. However, it’s basically impossible to see the visible light from these objects, since quasars are super far away from Earth.
That’s why astronomers look for quasars in the infrared or near-infrared — light with wavelengths much longer than that of visible light that can be picked up with specialized telescopes. By studying this light, scientists can figure out just how far away a quasar is. Since the Universe is expanding, distant quasars are moving away from Earth, causing their light to stretch into even longer wavelengths and get “redder.” It’s a concept known as redshift, and it can tell us which quasars are farther out than others. The more distant an object is, the faster it appears to be moving away from us and the more its light has shifted toward the red end of the spectrum.
Finding the most far-out quasars has been a multi-year process for Venemans and his team, including Eduardo Bañados of the Carnegie Institution for Science. They estimate that there are just 20 to 100 quasars at these incredibly extreme distances across the entire sky. Given the sheer amount of bright objects in the Universe, it makes the search long and tedious: the researchers spent many years combing through data from telescopes that have surveyed the stars, looking for candidates that might be super-distant quasars. Complicating matters is that sometimes, stars known as brown dwarfs can actually look pretty similar to quasars — but many of these objects reside in our own galaxy.
Ultimately, Bañados found a number of candidates he thought could be distant quasars and then analyzed them further with the Magellan telescopes in Chile to find this latest object. Up until this point, the farthest quasar that had ever been found was observed 13 billion light-years away, so it looked as it did when the Universe was 750 million years old. That’s only a 60-million-year difference gap between this newly discovered quasar. But at that time, 60 million years was just 10 percent of the age of the Universe. “Things were changing very rapidly,” Bañados tells The Verge.
In fact, astronomers believe this latest quasar was around when the Universe was going through a pivotal transition period. For hundreds of millions of years after the Big Bang, the Universe was a fairly boring place, a time often referred to as the Dark Ages. There weren’t any stars or black holes, but instead a bunch of dark matter, as well as hydrogen and helium spread throughout. Eventually these basic elements would collapse in on themselves and come together to form the first stars. And those stars would generate a bunch of radiation, stripping the electrons off the surrounding hydrogen in the Universe. It was a key moment in the Universe’s history known as the Epoch of Reionization, in which the hydrogen shifted from being neutral to ionized — and brought the Dark Ages to an end.
However, scientists aren’t quite sure when this shift happened. They think it started around 500 million years after the Big Bang and finished up when the Universe was 1 billion years old — but it’s been difficult to narrow down the exact timeline. Now this quasar is providing some answers. By studying the light from this object, the astronomers found that much of the hydrogen around the quasar was still neutral. So they believe that this quasar existed right in the middle of the Epoch of Reionization.
There are still some aspects of this quasar that puzzle astronomers, though. For instance, it’s curious how a quasar this massive could have even existed back then. It takes quite a long time for black holes to acquire enough material to grow so big, and astronomers originally thought the process would have taken longer than 690 million years. That’s why the astronomers plan to keep searching for distant quasars like this one to better understand what was around back then. “The expectation is they shouldn’t be there but now we know that there’s at least one,” says Bañados, adding, “that’s really difficult for black hole models to explain.”






Ahead of next week’s FCC vote on a rollback of net neutrality protections, activist groups have planned protests at Verizon stores tomorrow. The groups are relying on locals to organize those protests, which means there are plans to hold them at retail stores around the country.
For potential attendees, the groups have released an interactive, searchable map, which also includes events at lawmakers’ offices. Protestors can look up their zip codes to find the planned events closest to them. “These protests will be quick, fun, and 100% legal,” the activists say.
While the turnout will largely depend on the area — one New York City protest has more than 700 RSVPs, while most have just a handful — the groups are attempting to give the protests some uniformity by releasing a guide for local planners and asking organizers to “try to undertake the activities,” like calling lawmakers and making short speeches about net neutrality. Protestors will also rally online with the hashtag #StopTheFCC.


Last week, George R.R. Martin revealed that the Syfy channel picked up an adaptation of his 1980 novella Nightflyers for a 10-episode first season, and said that if all goes well, the show should premiere in summer 2018. In a new post on his LiveJournal, he commends the production for correcting a longstanding complaint he had with the art for his novella, and the story’s 1987 film adaptation — whitewashing.
In his post, Martin outlines a bit of Nightflyers history. His original story is about a group of scientists who hire a starship — the Nightflyer — to transport them to an alien starship they hope to study. The three main characters are Karoly d'Branin, the expedition’s leader; Royd Eris, Nightflyer’s captain; and Melantha Jhirl, a genetically enhanced human, who’s described as “a head taller than anyone on board, a large-framed, large-breasted, long-legged, strong, muscles moving fluidly beneath shiny coal-black skin.” Martin later expanded the story, which appeared in a paperback collection in 1985, where for the first time, a cover artist depicted Melantha Jhirl — as a white woman.
Martin says he argued with his publisher: “Melantha was black, I pointed out. My publisher acknowledged as much, but declined to make a change. ‘Do you want your book to sell?’ he asked me. Of course I did, I replied. ‘Well, if we put a black woman on the cover, no one will buy it.’” Later, when the story was adapted as a film, the character was played by a white actor, Catherine Mary Stewart.
When Martin learned that Syfy was producing a new adaptation of the story, he reached out to the project’s producers and writers, and recounted his frustrations with the various depictions of the character. Most authors don’t have much direct say in the adaptations of their work, and Martin isn’t directly involved in this production, but he writes that the producers seem to have listened, casting Jodie Turner-Smith (True Blood, The Last Ship) for the role. “Maybe it took thirty years,” Martin writes, “but at long last I can say: now, that's Melantha Jhirl.”
The casting falls in line with Syfy’s growing emphasis on multi-racial casts. The channel’s series Killjoys, Dark Matter, and The Magicians feature actors of color in prominent roles. And the creators of The Expanse made a concerted effort to ensure the multi-racial future that is depicted in the novels translated into their adaptations. With Turner-Smith’s casting, Nightflyers joins this movement, adapting the story as originally envisioned.
This representation is important. Syfy has recognized that it needs to appeal to a wide audience, and far too many science fiction and fantasy stories outright ignore or erase people of color from the worlds they envision. But there are pitfalls to avoid here: Martin’s original story has its own issues. His depiction of Melantha is a common stereotype of hyper-sexualization that comes with complicated implications:
She ate twice as much as any of her colleagues, drank heavily without ever seeming drunk, exercised for hours every day on equipment she had brought with her and set up in one of the cargo holds. By the third week out she had sexed with all four of the men on board and two of the other women. Even in bed she was always active, exhausting most of her partners.
While Martin’s story did include a black character in the 1980s, and while it’s commendable that he’s working to raise the issue of erasure, the adaptation is working off of some shaky footing. The original story depicted Melantha as a sort of inhuman, outsexed caricature rather than a relatable person. And in the rush to pat himself on the back, Martin and the writers could certainly paint themselves into a corner with an equally problematic depiction. Here’s hoping the Syfy adaptation can update the character with some nuance and positively add to Syfy’s efforts to depict a realistic, diverse future human society.


Update 12/6/17: This article has been updated with the full episode above.
Another Tuesday is upon us, and yes, another episode of Circuit Breaker Live is here, too. We'll be live today at 4PM ET at our usual spot on Twitter with your hosts Paul Miller and Ashley Carman (that's me!), who is subbing in for Nilay Patel.
Today's show has everything you could want from a live gadget show on Twitter. DJ and tech reporter Dani Deahl will teach me and Paul how to DJ. She'll maybe even make a beat on air with her DJ gadgets. I'm deeply untalented at playing music, so this segment will be fantastic. Then, reporter Sean O'Kane and creative director James Bareham will join us for an epic smartphone camera shootout. They've used the Pixel 2, iPhone X, LG V30, HTC U11, and Samsung Galaxy Note 8 over the past few weeks and have shot extensively on them. We'll compare their photos to hopefully determine which phone has the best camera right now. Send us your questions, too, because we'll address them on air.
As always, you can reach us by tweeting with the hashtag #CircuitBreakerLive. If you miss the live broadcast — which you definitely should not do — we'll post it here tomorrow. See you at 4PM ET!


The Huawei Nova 2S will be launched on December 7th in Beijing, China (or later tonight for those in the US), according to numerous reports, and many leaks already give us a good idea of what the latest Nova phone will be like.
The latest look at the Huawei Nova 2S, tweeted out by Venture Beat’s Evan Blass, shows the front of the Nova 2S in bright blue. It shows very skinny bezels, with dual front cameras, and notably, an oblong home button that doubles up as a fingerprint reader and barely fits on the bottom bezel.
The front of the Huawei Nova 2S fits in with the ongoing wave of big-screen/small-bezel phones including the OnePlus 5T and the latest from Huawei’s own Honor line, the Honor V10, which was just launched yesterday.
Huawei Nova 2s pic.twitter.com/cOWZVOoCXk
Numerous leaks about the Huawei Nova 2S already hint at the phone’s specs. The dual front cameras are 20-megapixel and 2-megapixel, and the Nova 2S has two more rear cameras that are 20-megapixel and 16-megapixel with a dual LED flash, according to a spec leak reported by Android Headlines today. The screen has a full HD 6-inch display with a resolution of 2160 x 1080 and an aspect ratio of 18:9. The phone will reportedly run Android 8.0 Oreo and has a 3,340mAh battery. It’s got a HiSilicon Kirin 960 processor, 6GB of RAM, and storage options of 64GB through 256GB.
Another leak from December 4th, reported by GSMArena.com, suggests that the Huawei Nova 2S will cost $392.92 for the 4GB of RAM and 64GB SSD option. It appears to come in black, white, and the tiffany blue that Blass’ leak showed. An invite for tomorrow’s Huawei event has been making the rounds, which says in Chinese that an even more beautiful phone is coming:




Heart data from elite basketball players show that a surprising amount have abnormalities — but these results are likely false positives that don't take into account how the heart changes during training, say researchers who analyzed data from hundreds of National Basketball Association players.
Training for a sport at an elite level changes the heart, so a chart of the heart’s electrical activity, called an electrocardiogram (or ECG) for an athlete will be different than one for a non-athlete. As a result, it can be difficult to discern whether someone’s ECG looks different because of training or because there’s an underlying disorder that might be dangerous. For a study published today in the Journal of the American Medical Association, scientists analyzed heart data from 519 NBA athletes. The results showed that using the most recent set of athlete-specific criteria, 81 had abnormal results even though the players were healthy.
The NBA requires each athlete to have their heart tested each year before the season begins. The evaluation includes an ECG, and a more sophisticated procedure called an echocardiogram. Echocardiograms use sound waves to create a visual image of the heart so doctors can see the size and shape and how blood flows through it.
Today’s study used test results for athletes who had played during the 2013 to 2015 seasons. Of these, 80 percent were black and most of the remaining players were white, and the average age was 25. The scientists analyzed the data using three specific sports-related criteria that are supposed to separate out what’s normal for athletes versus what’s not. Though 81 athletes have abnormalities using 2017 criteria, the numbers were higher using criteria from previous years: 108 using 2014 guidelines, and 131 using 2012 guidelines.
“When we compare the ECG data with matched echocardiographic data, we see that their hearts are actually normal and these abnormal ECGs are false-positive ECGs,” study author David Engel, a Columbia University cardiologist, told TCTMD. (They found no cases of structural heart disease.)
This means there are fewer and fewer cases of false positives from ECG under the new guidelines, but it’s still not perfect, and there still needs to be research into other types of diagnostic criteria, especially in light of heart-related NBA deaths.
The authors also write that the ECG data suggest NBA players have more heart abnormalities compared to other athletes, and this may be because the average age is older. There are limitations to the study, too. We don’t have a full set of physiological data that might be helpful, such as blood pressure; we don’t know what the underlying exact cause of the changes might be; and we shouldn’t generalize this to other sports. The results suggest that ECG criteria may need to be individualized for sport and that tore research should be done to find out better diagnostic methods.
Correction 12/7/17, 2017 9:23 a.m. EST: An earlier version of this post did not clarify that the heart abnormalities were likely false positives.





Last week, we found a way to water our plants by singing to them. This week, we’re focusing inward, and taking care of ourselves with a simple paper-enclosed bot.
This lamp will beep cheerfully to remind you when it’s time to stop and relax. When you pick it up and hold it in your lap, it will pulse at a rate of six breaths per minute to help you regulate your breathing. After five minutes, it turns itself off.
The build process is relaxing in of itself — no soldering, and some fun origami. Instructions are below!
If you have questions about the build or are looking for more hacks, find me on Twitter at @christinesunu or check out hackpretty.com.
Set up your Particle Internet Button by opening this code on Particle Build. For more info on getting set up, check out the Particle docs.
Change the `timeZone` variable to your time zone. The time zone is represented by the number of hours offset from UTC. PDT is -7, for example.
Set the `timeToGoOff` variable to the start of the hour at which you would like to be reminded to meditate. Use 24-hour time: 7AM is 7, but 7PM is 19.
Flash the code to your Internet Button!

Make the paper diffuser for your LED lamp. You’ll be folding an origami lotus.
The video has a quick rundown of how to do this, but you can also check out this tutorial for more detailed info. I basically did mine via those instructions, but without any of the yellow paper in the middle.
Put your Internet Button into the center of the lotus and thread the USB cable out of the bottom and to the side. Cover the middle of the button with a small piece of origami paper.
The lamp will automatically remind you that it is time to meditate, every day at the time you listed in the firmware.
If you want to start a session sooner, or end a session before your five minutes are up, you can jerk the lamp quickly to the side. This will cause the lamp to start your meditation timer or — if it is currently meditating — return to its sleep state.
You can log your meditation schedule using IFTTT or Librato. The firmware for the lotus publishes two different events. You can track either or both. A “start” event is published at the beginning of your meditation session, and an “end” event is published at the end.
If you’d like to track these on IFTTT, follow this tutorial for logging temperature, but replace the “temperature” event with “start” or “end.”
If you’d like to track these on Librato, follow this tutorial for logging temperature, but replace the “temp” event with “start” or “end.”


The boutique fitness class subscription service ClassPass will soon offer a more budget-friendly option after routine price hikes. The company announced today that it'll launch a new service called ClassPass Live in 2018. Instead of attending classes in-person, subscribers will be able to live stream workouts that are produced in-house at the company's Brooklyn-based studios. They can watch live or stream later from their TV, browser, smartphone, or tablet. The service will only be available in the US at first.
It'll cost $10 a month for existing members and $15 a month for new members. A $60 starter kit fee includes a heart rate monitor and Google Chromecast. ClassPass founder Payal Kadakia tells Business Insider that the first classes will involve heart rate training, and that, of course, the shipped heart rate monitors will evaluate a wearer's workout.
The whole concept hits on the at-home workout trend built around a popular fitness company called Peloton. That company allows users to participate in live cycling classes from home with a branded, internet-connected bike. However, Peloton is notably more expensive than what ClassPass is offering. A Peloton bike costs $1,995, and cycling shoes can cost at least $100. Oh, and the actual classes cost $39 a month. ClassPass Live sounds more like YouTube workouts, which are free. BuzzFeed actually made a list of the best workout channels a couple years ago.
Will users pay up to $15 a month to work out with ClassPass instructors at home? Sure, probably. The allure of these classes is often the instructor, as well as the ClassPass name. Honestly, any service that helps avoid having to make in-person class reservation has a shot at succeeding, especially in major cities.


The story that appeared in Quartz this November seemed shocking enough on its own: Google had quietly tracked the location of its Android users, even those who had turned off such monitoring on their smartphones.
But missing from the news site’s report was another eyebrow-raising detail: Some of its evidence, while accurate, appears to have been furnished by one of Google’s fiercest foes: Oracle.
For the past year, the software and cloud computing giant has mounted a cloak-and-dagger, take-no-prisoners lobbying campaign against Google, perhaps hoping to cause the company intense political and financial pain at a time when the two tech giants are also warring in federal court over allegations of stolen computer code.
Since 2010, Oracle has accused Google of copying Java and using key portions of it in the making of Android. Google, for its part, has fought those claims vigorously. More recently, though, their standoff has intensified. And as a sign of the worsening rift between them, this summer Oracle tried to sell reporters on a story about the privacy pitfalls of Android, two sources confirmed to Recode.
To be sure, the substance of Quartz’s story — Google’s errant location tracking — checks out. Google itself acknowledged the mishap and said it ceased the practice. Nor does Oracle stand alone in raising red flags about Google at a time when many in the nation’s capital are questioning the power and reach of large web platforms.
Still, Oracle’s campaign is undeniable. In Washington, D.C., for example, it has devoted a slice of its $8.8 million in lobbying spending so far in 2017 to challenging Google in key policy debates. It has sought penalties against Google in Europe, meanwhile, and it even purchased billboard ads in Tennessee just to antagonize its tech peer, sources said.
Asked about the effort, Ken Glueck, a top executive at Oracle, rebuffed the idea that his company had mounted an offensive against Google.
“Google is doing an excellent job of inflicting ‘political [and] PR pain’ on themselves and needs no help from us,” he told Recode. “We take positions based on the merits, based on our interests, and based on the interests of our customers without thinking much about Google.”
And while Glueck did not address Quartz’s reporting, he did acknowledge that Oracle had “substantial technical expertise on Android because Google stole Android from us,” adding: “We have talked to dozens of people about Android because Google’s deception about data privacy impacts the entire industry.”
Meanwhile, Kevin Delaney, the editor of Quartz, stressed his publication’s story “is unimpeachable and revealed an important privacy flaw, which Google admitted.”
A spokesman for Google declined to comment for this story.
Make no mistake: Oracle’s legal war with Google isn’t rooted in some small patent squabble. The lawsuit over Java has spanned seven years, and Oracle initially sought $9 billion in damages. But Google has prevailed in previous rounds, bolstered by courts that agreed its use of Java code in its Android smartphone operating system is permissible under the U.S. government’s “fair use” laws.
Still, Oracle isn’t finished fighting. The next round of oral arguments in its latest appeal begins Thursday in a Washington, D.C., courtroom. In the meantime, Oracle’s aggressive legal maneuvering has evolved into a political campaign against Google, sources say.
Take the fight over online privacy, which consumed the U.S. Congress this spring. At the time, lawmakers had just rolled back rules that would have required companies like AT&T, Charter, Comcast* and Verizon to obtain permission before selling their customers’ web-browsing histories to advertisers. Some Republicans said the rules targeting ISPs were heavy-handed and unfair because they didn’t apply to tech giants like Facebook and Google in equal measure. To that end, one GOP lawmaker, Rep. Marsha Blackburn, introduced a bill that aimed to subject both industries to tougher privacy regulations.
Naturally, Google opposed that idea — and speaking through one of its trade associations, the search giant pledged to fight. Days after Blackburn introduced the bill, however, Oracle publicly praised the lawmaker for her work product. Many in tech saw it as an odd move for a company with no search or advertising business.
Then, Oracle purchased mobile billboards in Blackburn’s home state, Tennessee, in an apparent bid to rile locals about the power and reach of Silicon Valley, two sources told Recode. “Internet companies betrayed you,” the ad began. It didn’t mention Google by name, but it still charged that the industry had “sold your most sensitive and personal information for $125 billion in advertising revenue last year.”
“Paid for by Oracle,” it read in fine print at the bottom.
Of course, corporate rivalries aren’t new — especially when it comes to Google. It warred for years with another tech giant, Microsoft, until the two sides brokered a truce in 2016. Both companies realized they had better things to do than snipe at each other, and Microsoft never managed to convince the U.S. government to break apart Google, anyway.
The search giant isn’t on super-friendly terms with telecom giants like AT&T, either. And others, like News Corp and Yelp, have explicitly lobbied governments around the world to penalize Google for threatening competition.
But Oracle’s attempts to discredit Google at times have been more subtle. Last year, for example, Oracle intervened in a wonky fight at the Federal Communications Commission over television set-top boxes to take the opposite side of its rival. And more recently, Oracle unexpectedly declared its support for an anti-sex-trafficking bill in the U.S. Congress that Google and other Silicon Valley giants had been fighting. Internet platforms fear it would open them to new lawsuits; Oracle as a company had no stake in the outcome either way.
“You’ve identified a few areas where we disagree with Google and there are other areas where we agree with Google,” Oracle’s Glueck said in response. “For example, unlike Google, we oppose sex trafficking. I would have loved to have been in the meeting when Google decided to support sex trafficking.”
As the two companies continue their war, Oracle may have the upper hand in Republican-dominated Washington, D.C.
Its chief executive, Safra Catz, served on the team that helped President Donald Trump staff his White House, and she repeatedly has joined him at public gatherings to discuss tech policy. And Oracle has since hired aides like Josh Pitcock, a former chief of staff to Vice President Mike Pence.
Perhaps ironically, Oracle’s ties in 2017 aren’t unlike the bonds that Google had formed with Democrats. One of its top executives, Eric Schmidt, advised Obama on policy and aided his election efforts, and numerous Google employees ultimately landed in Obama’s ranks during his eight years running the country. Now, Google faces a tough task trying to influence the Trump administration, where the likes of since-departed aide Steve Bannon have questioned the company’s size.
But Google hasn’t sat idly amid Oracle’s onslaught, either.
Earlier this year, Google dispatched its lobbying army to the halls of Congress, as first reported by Axios, armed with a slide deck that sought to detail all of the ways its new rival was carrying out its “vendetta.” It specifically warned members of Congress about the so-called Google Transparency Project. The organization appears to have many funders, but the search giant only appeared to single out Oracle. So far, the project has produced research about the search giant’s political activities — including its massive funding for academics. Some of those details became the basis for a story in the Wall Street Journal earlier this year.
Oracle’s Glueck, for his part, said the company “has nothing to do with the running of the Google Transparency Project and has never seen their research prior to publication,” but noted that its research “appears unimpeachable."
And as both sides prepared to square off — again — in federal court, Google’s allies once again have taken to the web. A trade group backed by the search giant penned a screed previewing Oracle’s “likely misleading arguments” during oral arguments set to begin Thursday.
Tony Romm is the senior editor for policy and politics at Recode. He can be reached at tony@recode.net, or on Signal, Confide, iMessage and WhatsApp at 215.779.9597.
Their battle isn’t even confined to the United States. Repeatedly, Oracle has urged the European Union to impose harsh penalties against Google for threatening competition and consumers.
To be clear, Oracle and Google don’t have great overlap there, either. Oracle doesn’t offer a competing shopping-comparison service, which formed the basis of the EU’s recent, record-breaking fine against Google. Still, Oracle teamed up with Yelp, News Corp and other Google foes in June, urging regulators in Brussels to take action against its rival tech giant.
In doing so, they slammed Google in a letter for spreading “fiction” — specifically through “its lobbying and public relations machine.”
* Comcast, through its NBCU arm, is an investor in Vox Media, which owns this website.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.


Freefly is a company that’s best known for making camera stabilization rigs typically used by professionals, or ambitious semi-pros. But the company is trying to change that with a new $299 handheld stabilization called the Movi that is supposed to help you step up your iPhone video game. Preorders start today, and the first units ship in March 2018.
The new mobile rig shares the same name as the professional version that first helped Freefly blow up its business in 2013. That Movi was a light, adjustable, and affordable stabilization rig that used sensors and motors to smooth out a camera operator’s movements. It let people capture cinema-quality footage on a budget that wouldn’t bankrupt them, and it’s helped the company expand to a full lineup of professional video stabilization solutions.
The idea behind the mobile Movi is similar: make it easier for people to capture footage that will fool someone into thinking it was shot on a more expensive camera. It does this using gyroscopic tech in a gimbal that’s similar (in spirit, though not in complexity) to what you’d find in the professional versions of the Movi, and by leaning on the company’s now years-long expertise in crafting software and algorithms that make it easier to shoot smooth footage.
I recently got a brief demo of the new Movi, and it’s fun to play with. It’s not too heavy, and the one-sided grip design isn’t as imbalanced as it might seem. The motors moved the phone as smoothly as one would expect from a Freefly product, and I love that it’s built in such a way that you can just place it down on a flat surface (which is especially useful for time lapses) without needing a separate accessory.
But there’s definitely a lot of work to be done before the company ships them in March. The units I was shown were two of just five 3D-printed prototypes that the company has made so far, and it’s still early enough in the process that the directional buttons on the grip still don’t have any assigned functions. (The corresponding app at least appears ready, and is already packed with different shooting modes and options that let you customize the movement of the gimbal.)
The challenge for Freefly is a totally different one than it faced when it announced the original Movi. Back then, the company was wading into new territory, and was rewarded by customers for being ahead of the curve. Now, it’s entering a part of the market that’s been flooded with options from China, and is dominated by DJI’s Osmo Mobile.
The year-old Osmo Mobile has tangible advantages: an extra level of control thanks to a joystick that lets users aim their phone without moving, brand recognition, and Android compatibility. (Freefly says there are no plans for an Android app right now, but isn’t ruling it out.) But the biggest is the fact that it’s on sale right now, and that the Osmo Mobile is, at the time of writing, at least $100 cheaper than the unreleased Movi.


Netflix announced today that season 4 of Black Mirror will premiere on the service on December 29th, 2017, and it’s been slowly drip-feeding fans teasers for season 4 in anticipation. Charlie Brooker’s Twilight Zone-esque anthology series, which originated on Britain’s Channel 4, offers different tales of modern horror, told through the lens of technologies or societies gone wrong.
As of season 3, Netflix had taken over production, and has exclusive streaming access. Very little information has been released about each episode, though we now have all six episode teasers and a series trailer to dig through. Once again, all the new episodes revolve around some nightmare scenario. As Brooker himself put it at a preview event in October, that dynamic has ensured his fans are constantly feeding him story seeds: “I’m immediately alerted to any horrible development in the world. People email me and tweet me about it, saying ‘This is very Black Mirror!’ Oh, thank you so much!”
“Crocodile,” directed by The Road's John Hillcoat, takes place in Iceland, in a future where memories are no longer private. As Kiran Sonia Sawar notes, however, “memories can be subjective,” and they’re hardly a perfect record of events. The show has played with the idea of publicly displayed memories before, in the episode “The Entire History of You.” But “Crocodile” seems more interested in how they can be twisted.
“Arkangel” is parenting à la Black Mirror, wherein a kid wandering off a playground is clear proof that “the key to good parenting is control,” which means punching needles directly into children’s temples. Sure! Everything will be fine. Jodie Foster directed this episode, which stars La La Land’s Rosemarie DeWitt.
With “Hang the DJ,” Black Mirror is finally tackling the occasional nightmare that is online dating. In this episode’s futuristic world, a dating app (or “system,” as they call it) not only decides who you can date, but decides when your relationship will expire. Georgina Campbell (Broadchurch), Joe Cole (Peaky Blinders), and George Blagden (Versailles) star in the episode, which is directed by Tim Van Patten (Boardwalk Empire, Game of Thrones).
Clearly based around a Star Trek spoof, “USS Callister” stars How I Met Your Mother’s Cristin Milioti, adorned with big hair and trying her best to adjust to space life. The episode also features Jesse Plemons (Fargo, Breaking Bad), Michaela Coel (Chewing Gum), and Jimmi Simpson (Westworld). If Miloti’s eye-roll in the teaser is anything to go off of, there’s some campy self-awareness to go with the inevitable dark future of misused technology here.
“Metalhead,” the series’s first strictly black-and-white episode, is directed by David Slade of Breaking Bad and American Gods fame, and it sets up a sinister world plagued by “dogs,” clearly not of the Good Boy variety. Maxine Peake’s character appears to be running from a killer robot dog that’s more Boston Robotics than Aibo.
In the Black Museum, the owner and proprietor promises that “If [an object] did something bad, chances are, it’s in here. There’s a sad, sick story behind most everything here.” And obviously he’s going to tell some of those sick, sad stories. The episode, directed by Colm McCarthy, stars Douglas Hodge, Letitia Wright, and Babs Olusanmokun.
Finally, here’s the full-season trailer, which combines footage from all six new episodes into a definitive statement about Black Mirror itself: happiness is fleeting, the world is scary, but everything happens for a reason. The reasons are usually just creepy ones that say a lot about humanity’s inherent failings.


It’s been more than six years since the sequel to mind-bending puzzle adventure Portal launched, but the series is finally back… sort of. Today, indie studio Headup Games announced a surprise standalone spinoff of its Bridge Constructor series, which will take place in the Portal universe. The original Bridge Constructor first launched back in 2013, and it tasks players with, well, designing bridges. The new spinoff will take that core concept in a slightly different direction.
“Bridge Constructor Portal will blend the laws of structural engineering and technology straight from Aperture Laboratories into an exciting new game experience, all under the demanding gaze of GLaDOS,” the studio explains. It’s not the first time Aperture Labs has invaded another game — there’s also a digital Portal-themed pinball title — but it might be the most clever.
If you’re excited about the idea of hanging out with GLaDOS again, you’ll be able to do so very soon: Bridge Constructor Portal is coming to PC, iOS, and Android on December 20th, with a console version slated for early next year.


Joanne the Scammer — an Instagram, then Vine, then YouTube star who’s been cranking out work from inside the Super Deluxe incubator for the last two years — is finally making the transition to television.
In a press release, the internet-first entertainment company announced that it’s developing a Joanne the Scammer TV series written by Parks and Recreation writer and The Good Place producer Joe Mande and executive produced by Brooklyn Nine-Nine’s Chelsea Peretti. There is no network attached to the program yet.
Former Super Deluxe social media manager Jason Richards discovered writer-performer Branden Miller and his Joanne personality on Instagram in 2015, and CEO Wolfgang Hammer immediately enlisted Miller to make three short videos for the company’s fledgling YouTube channel. Since then, Joanne has become the crown jewel of Turner-owned Super Deluxe, churning out viral hits like “Caucasian Living with Joanne the Scammer” and selling weird, expensive merch. Hammer told The Verge in May that the company was excited to come up with a half-hour TV concept for her at some point.
In the same press release, Super Deluxe announced that The Passage, a new series by comedian Philip Burgers, would debut at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2018. The series, which follows the misadventures of a mute world traveler named Phil, is directed by The Eric Andre Show’s Kitao Sakurai.
Last year at Sundance, Super Deluxe’s The Chances, a web series created and performed by deaf writer-actors Shoshannah Stern and Josh Feldman, was picked up as the first original scripted series for AMC’s Sundance Now. Yesterday, the company announced that the Stern and Feldman-helmed TV adaptation of the Chances web series will be called This Close, and will be directed by Spa Night’s Andrew Ahn. It will star a mix of well-known talent, including Curb Your Enthusiasm’s Cheryl Hines, Friday Night Lights’ Zach Gilford, Academy Award-winner Marlee Matlin (who recently joined the cast of ABC’s Quantico), and Colt Prattes, the star of ABC’s recent TV-movie version of Dirty Dancing. The new series will also debut at Sundance in January 2018, and premiere on Sundance Now on Valentine’s Day next year.
Additionally, Super Deluxe announced this week that Tim Heidecker and Eric Wareheim’s Abso Lutely Productions will co-produce a television show centered around Vine star and political satirist Vic Berger, and Titmouse, the animation production company behind Netflix’s Big Mouth, will co-produce an animated series called Boss Bitch from Canadian radio personality Kathryn Borel.
Seven months ago, Super Deluxe told The Verge it had 50 in-development TV shows it planned to bring to market in the next year. The company’s VP of original programming, Winnie Kemp, explained at the time, “We’re almost like an incubator. We’re able to help [young creators] preserve what they want to make and present it in a way that makes bigger companies feel confident that the execution and the creative is all going to be there when we make it.” This string of announcements is the most meaningful progress on that promise so far. And it’s certainly in keeping with the growing trend of companies using web series as test balloons for talent.


Last month, the first rumors about what to expect from Samsung’s upcoming flagship Galaxy S9 and S9 Plus smartphones began to swirl, and with it came a tantalizing detail: the devices could show up as early as CES for a sneak preview.
But a new statement from a Samsung spokesperson in The Korea Herald is casting doubt on that appearance, with a representative saying that “it is unlikely” that the S9 will be at CES. That said, the statement is an unusual choice of language that may imply that Samsung hasn’t quite made up its mind yet about previewing the new phones, which is strange as CES is just a few weeks away.
As a reminder, the Galaxy S9 and S9 Plus are expected to be a more iterative update on the S8 featuring Qualcomm’s just-announced Snapdragon 845 processor, with a rumored March 2018 release window.


This week, a subsidiary of Volkswagen called Moia unveiled a new concept vehicle in Berlin: a six-seater all-electric van. Blandly brown in color and retaining none of the flash typical of other concept vehicles, the Moia EV probably flew under the radar for most people. But what’s interesting about it is that the vehicle is designed for ride-hailing services like Uber and Lyft, and more specially for carpooling. And Moia isn’t the only company that sees the advantage of a large wheelbase vehicle as the perfect hedge against an uncertain future.
Over the last year, the auto industry has been leaning into minivans, vans, and shuttles as the types of vehicles best suited for these shared, pooled rides, either with a human driver or an autonomous one. Thanks to a convergence of self-driving technology, ride-sharing and car-sharing apps, and battery-electric vehicles, OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) are rushing to respond to shifting consumer habits. And the fact remains, the classic four-door passenger sedan just doesn’t cut it anymore.
“Well, if you’re a believer in the autonomous vehicle future, then the MOIA EV has to be the kind of people-moving super cab that VW and others have to develop,” said Michael Ramsay, an analyst at Gartner. “When we get down to it, these vehicles are small buses, operating, one would hope, in a more efficient way than current bus and paratransit systems.”
VW plans to go into production on the Moia EV starting next year, which is truly remarkable for a concept just unveiled this week. The company plans to launch a “ride-pooling concept” in Hamburg next year with a fleet of 200 of the electric vans. The goal, according to Moia CEO Ole Harms, is to reduce “the number of cars in major cities by one million in Europe and the USA by 2025.”
Other car companies have their own shuttle buses and minivans in operation. Ford acquired the San Francisco-based micro-transit service Chariot last year and has been steadily expanding its presence in cities across the US. General Motors and its subsidiary Cruise Automation have been piloting an autonomous taxi service in San Francisco using a fleet of electric Chevy Bolts. (The Bolt isn’t a van, of course, but GM has said it will release 20 new all-electric vehicles by 2023.) And Waymo, the self-driving division of Alphabet, has deployed fully driverless Chrysler Pacifica minivans in a suburb of Phoenix for its own ride-hailing pilot.
Speaking of Waymo, it seems increasingly apparent that many people will first experience autonomous driving technology not through vehicles owned by giant companies like Google or Uber, but as passengers in tiny, autonomously driven shuttle buses that are popping up in cities across the country. These self-driving shuttle services are quickly becoming the must-have tourist attraction for many municipalities. These vehicles, which are built by startups like Local Motors, May Mobility, and Navya, have appeared in places like Las Vegas, Denver, and Washington, DC. Their routes are simple, and seating is limited, but many see these tiny vehicles as a gateway to introducing automated driving to a broader swath of the population. (That is, when they’re not crashing.)
And when you look at some of the flashier concept vehicles unveiled recently, you find even more examples of how the industry is trending toward larger, multi-passenger vehicles. In Geneva earlier this year, VW showed off a quirky autonomous minivan called Sedric with no steering wheel or pedals, that can be summoned at the push of a button for ride-hailing trips. It looked like a grumpy toaster, but its interior was designed to look more like a lounge than a six-seater airport shuttle.
“I don't consider this a gimmick, but rather a crucial part of the mobility ecosystem,” said Sam Abuelsamid, an analyst at Navigant. “Mobility services will need to operate with a variety of different vehicle types that can support different uses and price points.”
Minivans and shuttles have other advantages beyond additional legroom. There is flexibility to switch back and forth between carrying cargo and people based on demand, Abuelsamid said. And with the addition of automation, these vehicles could be manufactured to have swappable interior modules, with seats or package racks or even drone charging and deployment for package deliveries. Heavy GPUs to power self-driving software can fit snugly in a more spacious trunk.
To be clear, ride-hailing still accounts for less than 1 percent of all vehicle miles traveled in the US. But services like Uber and Lyft are increasing their foothold in major metropolitan areas. A recent study of big cities found that 21 percent of adults have personally used ride-hailing service. Meanwhile, additional research seems to suggest that the rise in Uber and Lyft may lead to a complementary drop in personal vehicle ownership.
And while they haven’t quite hit their sweet spot yet, it’s clear that both Uber and Lyft view carpooling as vital to their respective missions of dominating cities and growing their share of the market. Riders love the cheap, subsidized fares, drivers are warming up to it as the technology improves, and cities love the idea of utilizing every seat in the vehicle to maximize the value of the trip. So naturally, with all the trends swirling through the air, automakers are increasingly turning toward the multi-passenger vehicle as the ultimate representation of their commitment to the future.
What will become of the lonely sedan? Extinction seems a likely course. According to a recent study, the rise of shared mobility services could slash demand by more than half for driver-owned sedans by 2025. KPMG projects that sales of personally owned sedans in the US will drop precipitously — from 5.4 million units sold today to just 2.1 million units by 2030. This could spur a faster shift by automakers toward the production of SUVs and pickup trucks, which already outsell sedans by large margins.
This is a tough challenge for the burgeoning "shuttle" shared mobility space: offering enough interior space to improve on a typical bus experience while delivering on the promise of more efficient road use. https://t.co/BL7XkIbTvk
But if you’re talking about utilization, nothing approaches the efficiency of public transportation. Tech companies may see minivans and shuttles as the ideal mode of transportation, but city buses and subways are still the most efficient way to move large groups of people across (or underneath) dense urban environments. Lyft caught some flack earlier this year when it unveiled something called “Lyft Shuttle,” the description of which sounded pretty much identical to a city bus. But the message was clear: private companies were encroaching on the turf of public transit agencies, with uncertain consequences.
It raises an important question about fairness and equity. As public transportation in many major US cities degrades, frustrated commuters are turning to ride-hailing and ride-sharing services. This can supplement and bolster these floundering transit services (as some transportation experts predict), or it can undermine them. Smelling profit, auto companies make bold claims about rolling out new vehicle types and launching their own mobility services. Technology is transforming transportation, and the hope is that we’ll get as much out of this transformation as we can. It will take more than a few flashy minivans before we get there.




Details are scant, but today Sonos and Ikea are announcing a partnership meant to bring "music and sound" into all aspects of the home. Ikea calls the collaboration a third step for its Ikea Home Smart initiative. Step one was the integration of Qi wireless charging into its furniture back in 2015, and step two was the launch of its smart lighting products in 2016. The first realizations from the Sonos and Ikea partnership aren't expected to be in stores until 2019, however.
“At IKEA we strive to make solutions for life at home by integrating technology into our home furnishing offer that are easy to use and affordable, thereby making smart home technology accessible to the many people,” said Björn Block of IKEA's smart home division. “Together with Sonos we want to democratize music and sound in the home, and we want to create products designed for how people listen together at home. By teaming up with Sonos we want to combine IKEA home furnishing knowledge with Sonos’ expertise within great home sound.”
What this means come 2019 is open to interpretation. At a minimum we can expect Ikea to initially sell Sonos' existing lineup of speakers. But it could also point to entirely new products developed in ways presently unforeseen using Sonos' intellectual property and Ikea's vast network of furniture designers. The latter could be years away, however.
The partnership's emphasis on "music and sound" is notable. We often think of Sonos in narrow terms as the company that delivers music anywhere in the home. But more generally speaking, it can also deliver sounds. It's already doing that by integrating Alexa's intelligent voice assistant inside the Sonos One speaker. But you can imagine Sonos speakers being used to deliver audio for all types of smart-home scenarios: as an electronic doorbell, an intercom system, or as a mechanism to deliver chimes alerting you to the end of the laundry cycle, for example. Or maybe as a siren connected to a home security system or smoke alarm. The options are many as Ikea looks to extend its burgeoning TRÅDFRI series of smart devices in the home.
As an audio partner for Ikea, Sonos is unique in that the company strives to be service agnostic. It's already integrated with just about any music service you can think of. More recently Sonos began integrating with all the major voice assistants: Amazon’s Alexa is already supported, Google Assistant is confirmed, and the company is actively courting Apple to bring over Siri, as it did with Apple Music a few years ago. By choosing Sonos as a partner, Ikea doesn't have to place a big bet on any one music or voice service winning the smart home.
Sonos is, of course, thrilled to have its products and name out in front of the more than 780 million people who shop Ikea's stores each year.
Whatever happens, the Ikea and Sonos partnership is one those things that seems so obvious and of such value to both companies that it makes you wonder why it didn't happen years ago.


The winds are changing in Pokémon Go. Today, developer Niantic revealed a series of updates that will not only introduce more creatures to collect, but also add a new dynamic weather system. The addition of real-time weather will change the way the augmented reality of the game looks, adding rain or snow when appropriate, as well as alter the gameplay by strengthening certain pokémon based on the real-world weather conditions. “Players should expect to see a much better match between what’s in the game and what’s in the world around them,” says Matt Slemon, a lead developer on the game.
The updates will come in two parts. First, starting later this week, more that 50 new pokémon will be added to the game, each pulled from the Hoenn region depicted in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire. Additions include the gecko-like Treecko, the adorable fire bird Torchic, and the swamp-dwelling Mudkip, among others.
When Ruby and Sapphire were first released in 2002, they introduced a much greater focus on weather than previous games in the series, including aspects where weather conditions influenced battles. So the second part of the update — which Niantic says will start rolling out toward the end of the month — will bring this aspect to Pokémon Go. The real-time weather will change the game in a few ways, outside of the obvious aesthetic differences.
For one, depending on the conditions outside, you’ll see different creatures out in the wild. A rainy day will mean more water-type pokémon, while snow will bring out the ice-types. (All of the creatures in the game will be impacted by this, not just the new generation-three pokémon being introduced this week.) “We don’t have any pokémon that will only show up in a given weather condition,” says Slemon. “But there are some pokémon who care a lot about their weather conditions, so you can expect Lotad to show up in really large numbers when it’s raining outside. But if you live in an area where it doesn’t really have that much rain, you might still see a Lotad wandering through your habitat.”
The weather system will also impact the strength of pokémon. Water pokémon caught on a rainy day will generally have a higher CP level, which will make them harder to defeat, but also produce better rewards if captured. The same goes for other aspects of the game; raid bosses may be stronger on a given day based on the weather, while your Charizard will be more effective in gym battles when it’s hot and sunny.
All of the changes will positively impact pokémon, so you won’t see instances where an ice-type is weaker because it’s a blistering summer day. “We prefer to give bonuses rather than penalties where we can,” Slemon explains. “We don’t want to penalize a player by, for instance, de-powering a pokémon that they may be very attached to. The other part of that is we want to encourage behavior rather than punish it. We’re trying to strike a balance between promoting gameplay that utilizes weather, without penalizing everyone who might not have that super high-level Charizard when it’s hot outside.”
Pokémon Go celebrated its anniversary in July, and since then Niantic has continued to tweak the experience, adding in new features like co-operative raids, legendary pokémon, and real-world events (though the latter didn’t exactly go as expected). At the same time, a handful of promised features — including iconic Pokémon elements like trading and player-versus-player battles — have yet to make it into the game.
According to Slemon, the decision to add weather before other long-promised features came down to the new pokémon that were being introduced. “Generation three and the Hoenn region are just thematically tied to weather so closely, it’s a core tenet of their identity, that the fit was just so perfect,” he says. “Generally speaking, we do try to choose features that tie in well with the content that we’re trying to release.” As an example, he cites the introduction of raids over the summer, which coincided with the addition of legendary pokémon to the game. “That’s an important tie-in, because we don’t want legendaries to just be randomly found in the wild.”
The updates to Pokémon Go come at an increasingly busy time for Niantic. In addition to supporting the monster-collecting game, the studio is also set to launch a major revamp of its debut location-based game Ingress, as well as release a brand-new augmented reality game set in the magical world of Harry Potter.



The end-game for Google’s AI subsidiary DeepMind was never beating people at board games. It’s always been about creating something akin to a combustion engine for intelligence — a generic thinking machine that can be applied to a broad range of challenges. The company is still a long way off achieving this goal, but new research published by its scientists this week suggests they’re at least headed down the right path.
In the paper, DeepMind describes how a descendant of the AI program that first conquered the board game Go has taught itself to play a number of other games at a superhuman level. After eight hours of self-play, the program bested the AI that first beat the human world Go champion; and after four hours of training, it beat the current world champion chess-playing program, Stockfish. Then for a victory lap, it trained for just two hours and polished off one of the world’s best shogi-playing programs named Elmo (shogi being a Japanese version of chess that’s played on a bigger board).
One of the key advances here is that the new AI program, named AlphaZero, wasn’t specifically designed to play any of these games. In each case, it was given some basic rules (like how knights move in chess, and so on) but was programmed with no other strategies or tactics. It simply got better by playing itself over and over again at an accelerated pace — a method of training AI known as “reinforcement learning.”
Using reinforcement learning in this way isn’t new in and of itself. DeepMind’s engineers used the same method to create AlphaGo Zero; the AI program that was unveiled this October. But, as this week’s paper describes, the new AlphaZero is a “more generic version” of the same software, meaning it can be applied to a broader range of tasks without being primed beforehand.
What’s remarkable here is that in less than 24 hours, the same computer program was able to teach itself how to play three complex board games at superhuman levels. That’s a new feat for the world of AI.
This takes DeepMind just that little bit closer to building the generic thinking machine the company dreams of, but major challenges lie ahead. When DeepMind CEO Demis Hassabis showed off AlphaGo Zero earlier this year, he suggested that a future version of the program could help with a range of scientific problems — from designing new drugs to discovering new materials. But these problems are qualitatively very different to just playing board games, and a whole lot of work needs to be done to find out how exactly algorithms can tackle them. All we can say for certain now, is that artificial intelligence has definitely moved on from just playing chess.


It's here at last: the Amazon Prime Video app is now available for the Apple TV. The app arrives six months after Apple CEO Tim Cook said it would arrive “later this year” and with just days to spare in 2017. The iOS app was just updated to 5.0 as well, adding iPhone X support and universal search. The tvOS version is available to download on Apple TV 3rd generation devices or later. (If don’t see it, try searching for “Amazon Prime Video” on your Apple TV).
The native Prime Video application joins similar apps from Hulu, Netflix, and other streaming services available on the Apple TV. Previously, Prime Video could only be played on the Apple TV over a wireless AirPlay connection from another Apple device. The new app should be far more convenient to use and greatly improve the viewing experience.
Today’s app release should open the door for Amazon to start selling the Apple TV again. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos refused to sell Apple's streaming TV box unless his company’s Prime Video app could be installed. Amazon did list the Apple TV briefly in September after refusing to sell it since 2015. “We want our player, our Prime Video player, to be on the device, and we want it to be on the device with acceptable business terms,” said Bezos at Code Conference 2016. “And if you can’t, then we don't want to sell it to our customers, because they’re going to be buying it thinking they can watch Prime Video and then they’re going to be disappointed. And they’re going to return it.” It's this same sentiment that's at least partially fueling the current feud between Amazon and Google.


China is the most unique smartphone market in the world: a phone maker can be a global sales leader without ever treading beyond Chinese borders, and small upstart challengers can suddenly explode in popularity from out of nowhere. The latter aspect is becoming harder now, however, as the latest data from Kantar Worldpanel shows that China’s top five phone vendors are becoming a more solid and dominant group.
Kantar reports that, for the calendar quarter ending in October, the top five of Huawei, Xiaomi, Apple, Vivo, and Oppo accounted for 91 percent of the overall market. That’s up from 79 percent a year earlier, extending a lead that now sees companies like ZTE, Meizu, and Lenovo struggling to find a foothold in their home country. Global smartphone leader Samsung is now at a 2.2 percent share in China and deteriorating, according to Kantar’s Dominic Sunnebo.
It’s notable how diverse each company’s strategy for success in China has been. Oppo and Vivo have prioritized rural China, setting up a huge network of brick-and-mortar stores that get their devices out to consumers who might not yet have access to the internet. Xiaomi has been and remains dominant in online sales, though those have fallen as a proportion of phone sales in China owing to the faster growth of physical retail. The major resurgence that Xiaomi has enjoyed over this past year has been down to a new strategy of integrating more real-world stores with its already successful online strategy. Huawei has focused primarily on urban China, and it’s reaped the rewards of it as one of the leading brands. Apple, finally, has maintained its status as a premium luxury brand, and its iPhone X debut is likely to boost its numbers in the next quarter, serving as exactly the aspirational product that many young Chinese consumers are looking for.
Urban China remained a bright spot for #Apple, with its share edging up 0.5% in the latest three months to reach 17.4%. Learn more: https://t.co/U0VLcEQMFo pic.twitter.com/97YQzDnwEq


YouTube has just revealed its most popular videos for 2017. The lists are broken down into Top Trending and Top Music, and were compiled based on views, likes, comments, shares, and more, according to YouTube.
The top 10 videos in the trending category were viewed more than 633 million times for over 40 million hours on Google’s video platform. Together they represent a zeitgeist of feel-good escapes that many people found so appealing in 2017. Here's your chance to relive those moments  — or see what all the fuss was about — one last time.
YouTube also revealed its top ten music videos for the year. Luis Fonsi's “Despacito” finally unseated “Gangnam Style’s” five-year reign to become the most-viewed YouTube music video of all time. Notably, six of the top ten music videos this year come from Latin artists.
As Bill Wurtz famously said in YouTube's #8 trending video, "A long time ago, actually never, and also (now), nothing is nowhere. When? Never. Makes sense right?"
Yes, Bill, weirdly it does make sense. As 2017 winds down, that's exactly how I feel.


Amazon has just responded to Google’s decision to remove YouTube from all Fire TV products and the Echo Show. “Google is setting a disappointing precedent by selectively blocking customer access to an open website,” a spokesperson told The Verge by email. “We hope to resolve this with Google as soon as possible.” YouTube is being pulled from the Show effective immediately, and Fire TV owners will lose out on the popular, essential video streaming app on January 1st.
Google says it’s taking this extreme step because of Amazon’s recent delisting of new Nest products (like Nest Secure and the E Thermostat) and the company’s long-running refusal to sell Chromecast or support Google Cast in any capacity.
But regardless of the public stance each company takes over the next few days, it’s their mutual customers who are unfairly getting jerked around. YouTube is a cornerstone of any living room streaming device, and for Google to suddenly decide to strip it from millions of existing Fire TV owners — assuming no agreement is reached by January 1st — is shameful. YouTube is video on the internet. Period. It’s also home to beloved creators, and Google’s decision will soon rob them of viewers.
Kicking the Echo Show to the curb doesn’t impact nearly as many people, but it still stings since watching cooking videos from YouTube on the Alexa screen in your kitchen seemed like one of the perfect uses for the thing! But since Google is being pedantic and needlessly obsessive over every detail of how the app functions on Amazon’s device, that’s no longer possible. This is the second time YouTube has disappeared from the Show. Google said the first iteration had a “broken user experience,” which resulted in a revised version that was basically the full-blown desktop website. That’s not exactly ideal from a usability standpoint.
“Echo Show and Fire TV now display a standard web view of YouTube.com and point customers directly to YouTube’s existing website,” the Amazon spokesperson said. But sources familiar with Google’s position say the company takes issue with Amazon overlaying its own voice controls on top of YouTube. That violates section 4b of YouTube’s terms of service, which reads “you agree not to alter or modify any part of the service.”
THIS IS INSANITY pic.twitter.com/dYbi5w7pdD
Google is dealing Amazon’s devices real damage by withdrawing YouTube, and you could reasonably argue it has the upper hand here. There are people who simply won’t buy a Fire TV as a result of this move, and many existing owners will be displeased come January. Actually, they’re already rather upset since YouTube is displaying a cold, matter-of-fact warning about the cutoff starting today — and gently pushing users towards other devices. If you follow that link, there’s no explanation given as to why a device you paid money for will suddenly be made worse when the calendar hits 2018.
So Google's feud with Amazon just reached my living room. Got this screen when I launched YouTube on my Amazon Fire TV. pic.twitter.com/vtmcuBTtE9
Amazon isn’t without fault either. The company dragged its feet for years in releasing a proper Prime Video app for Android in the Google Play Store. That only happened earlier this year. Previously, you had to install Amazon’s own, separate app store and only then could you install Prime Video. It was a sad, convoluted attempt at luring users to the Amazon Appstore. Even now, Prime Video still doesn’t support Chromecast, as Google points out.
And that’s directly tied to Chromecast’s absence on Amazon.com. Since there’s no easy way of watching Prime Video, Amazon won’t sell it. But it’s Amazon’s own fault that Prime Video doesn’t work with Chromecast. Amazon has the power to make it happen. What’s Google supposed to do in this scenario?
Even to casual observers, Amazon’s decision to remove popular, well-liked products from its store over this spat — or never sell them to begin with — is an ugly example of the company throwing its weight and power around. No one should be surprised that Google is crying foul. Is the company under any obligation to sell Google Home — the chief rival to its own Echo? Of course not. Them’s the breaks. But the Chromecast situation is troubling, and Amazon’s recent halting of sales for certain Nest hardware (with no real explanation) seems juvenile. Prime shipping is still a very powerful incentive, and Amazon is well aware of that.
What frustrates me most is that neither of these companies have bothered to apologize to customers over their squabbling. There’s no “we’re sorry to everyone affected.” On YouTube’s end, it’s just an abrupt, indifferent “Hey, you’re losing YouTube!” message to Fire TV owners. Google says “we hope we can reach an agreement to resolve these issues soon.” Business terms take priority and customers come second. There’s no other way of looking at this or framing it. No one’s fighting for some greater good.
We’re witnessing the worst kind of petty bickering from two tech giants, and consumers are taking the brunt of this escalating feud. If that’s not embarassing enough, the companies are already being mocked by industry groups in favor of dismantling net neutrality. USTelecom wasted little time in piling on. “Broadband ISPs are committed to providing an open internet for their customers, including protections like no content blocking or throttling,” CEO Jonathan Spalter said. “Seems like some of the biggest internet companies can’t say the same. Ironic, isn’t it?” This stubborn conflict is turning into fodder for FCC chairman Ajit Pai’s supporters.
It should never have come to this. Amazon and Google, your options are to make this right, take your grievances to the FTC, or go to court. But don’t take it out on people who just want to enjoy their gadgets. Let people have their YouTube. 2017 has been hard enough to endure already.


Today, Apple started selling an unlocked, SIM-free model of the iPhone X through its website, Apple Store app, and retail locations. The unlocked version of the handset, which starts at $999, was previously only available if you bought it through Verizon or Best Buy, which charged a $100 premium over financed carrier versions of the phone until consumer backlash pushed the retailer to pull the product entirely.
Now, if you find the iPhone X on Apple’s website, you’ll have the option to buy either a GSM or CDMA version of the phone that works with either AT&T and T-Mobile or Verizon and Sprint. The new option, listed under SIM-free, let’s you purchase the iPhone X unlocked, meaning you can freely bring it to any carrier or use it with a prepaid SIM card.
There’s not a huge distinction between the Verizon version of the iPhone X and this new SIM-free one. Verizon has for years sold phones, even Apple’s flagship, unlocked and with the ability to move freely between both GSM and CDMA networks. However, you’ve needed Verizon account credentials to make the purchase. Now, if you happen to swap cell networks a lot on the go, or switch frequently between iOS and Android, the SIM-free version is the most hassle-free version of the iPhone X you can buy and probably what you’ll want.


The Securities and Exchange Commission has frozen the assets of a cryptocurrency startup accused of fraudulently selling up to $15 million in tokens. Yesterday, the SEC announced charges against PlexCorps, an embattled initial coin offering (ICO) company that advertises an ostensibly stable and approachable cryptocurrency called PlexCoin. The complaint alleges that PlexCorps promised massive returns it was unlikely to deliver, while advertising a nonexistent team of experts and obscuring the past financial crimes of its founder Dominic Lacroix.
PlexCorps has already run afoul of Canadian regulators, who ordered it to stop soliciting investment for PlexCoin; Lacroix himself was previously banned from dealing in securities after allegedly defrauding investors in a micro-loan venture. The SEC said this summer that ICOs could fall under US securities rules, and among other things, it claims PlexCorps failed to comply with the relevant registration laws.
More damningly, it also says that PlexCorps enticed investors with “outlandish rewards” of a 1,354 percent profit over the course of under a month. Lacroix and his partner Sabrina Paradis-Royer allegedly misappropriated over $200,000 of the investments for “extravagant personal expenditures.” And the SEC complains that PlexCorps flouted Canadian regulators’ rulings — while selling “a t-shirt with a picture of a man making an offensive gesture” at the name and logo of Quebec’s financial oversight body.
PlexCorps disputed the accusations on Facebook. “We are being depicted as robbers, scammers and fraudsters everywhere in the media. They are smearing our name with some allegations that can sometimes be false or misleading,” it said. “We claim that PlexCoin is not a fraud since no one had their money stolen from us and once more, all purchased PlexCoin were distributed.” The company says it will cooperate with US and Canadian regulators, but “what is now being published in the media goes too far.”
The SEC says that these are the first charges filed by its Cyber Unit, which was created in September to fight online scams and other criminal activity. PlexCoin isn’t the only allegedly scammy ICO it’s gone after, however. This fall, it charged two companies, which claimed to be selling ICO tokens backed by real estate and diamond investments, with fraud.


Earlier today, Qualcomm and Microsoft announced the first Windows 10 devices with ARM-based processors will be arriving early next year. HP, Asus, and Lenovo will all be launching laptops and convertibles with Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 835 processor in them, with prices expected to range from $600 to $800.
Windows 10 on ARM is a reboot of Microsoft’s earlier attempts to marry mobile processors with full laptop experiences. It promises to provide better power efficiencies, reliable performance, and always-on connectivity compared to the x86 Intel-based computers that have existed so far.
Contrary to what you might expect, the new Windows 10 ARM computers don’t look hugely different from their Intel counterparts. They all support standard Windows 10 features, such as a touchscreen, Windows Hello, and pen input. HP Envy X2 looks just like the Spectre X2 detachable already available, while Asus’ NovaGo is a standard laptop that is visually indistinguishable from the rest of its lineup. Both models will launch with Windows 10 S, but can be upgraded to the full Windows 10 experience.
As a result, first impressions from the new devices aren’t hugely different from any other Windows 10 device. ARM computers aren’t noticeably thinner or lighter than others, and though they lack any sort of fans, many newer Intel computers are fanless, as well. The Envy X2 is very similar to many of the Surface Pro types of computers that already exist, while the NovaGo feels just like any other budget to midrange laptop.
On the specs front, the Envy X2 is definitely the more premium-looking of the two models, and has a 12.3-inch 1920 x 1280 pixel display with up to 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage. The NovaGo can be similarly equipped with 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage, but its fixed display is a 13.3-inch 1920 x 1080 pixel panel. The NovaGo’s screen can’t be detached, but it does rotate 360 degrees for tablet mode. The Envy relies entirely on USB Type-C ports for its input and output, while the Asus has full-size USB Type-A ports and an HDMI port.
The real differences with these computers will be felt once we’ve gotten a chance to use these computers in an everyday scenario. Qualcomm boasts battery life of up to 25 hours, plus instant power on and performance that is on par with an Intel computer. It also says that the built-in LTE connectivity will provide significantly faster speeds than other currently available LTE-equipped Windows 10 computers. To see how all of that works, we’ll have to spend more time with these machines.
This first wave of Windows 10 ARM laptops are powered by the Snapdragon 835 processor and have the X16 LTE modem for connectivity. That’s the same setup found in many Android phones released in 2017, including Samsung’s Galaxy S8 and Google’s Pixel 2. Qualcomm says that devices running the just-announced Snapdragon 845 processor and X20 modem will arrive next year.
Qualcomm is hosting its annual conference this week, where we expect to hear more about Snapdragon Windows 10 devices. Stay tuned for more.
Photography by Dan Seifert / The Verge


Anyone who’s interviewed David Lynch knows he doesn’t like to talk about what his work means. In one-on-one conversations, the writer-director (and sculptor, painter, musician, and occasional weatherman) behind the singular movie masterpieces Eraserhead, Blue Velvet, and Mulholland Dr. comes across as affable, even gregarious. He’ll share memories from his past, and happily talk about some of the practical aspects of movie-making, like sound design or running a set. But he stops short of saying anything truly revealing.
If nothing else, Lynch’s reticence gets other people talking. From May to September 2017, cinephiles and telephiles tuned into Showtime to watch Twin Peaks: The Return, the sequel to the groundbreaking ABC drama Lynch and writer Mark Frost created back in 1990. Like the original series, the new Twin Peaks tells a convoluted, often opaque story about horrific crimes, illicit romances, lovable kooks, and the supernatural origins of human evil. And just like back in the early ’90s, fans of the show spent the days between episodes swapping theories about what the heck was actually happening on their TV screens.
A new Blu-ray set titled Twin Peaks: A Limited Event Series contains all 18 hours of the 2017 series, plus nearly eight hours of bonus features. Unlike some past Lynch projects, the Twin Peaks Blu-ray doesn’t add any deleted scenes. That shouldn’t surprise anyone who watched the series, which was filled with the kind of material other directors leave on the cutting-room floor. It does, however, have Lynch’s weird promos for the show, some fairly conventional cast interviews (including the full hourlong panel from this year’s San Diego Comic-Con, moderated by Lost / The Leftovers writer-producer Damon Lindelof), and plenty of behind-the-scenes footage.
The filmmakers’ fans — and even some of his skeptics — should be most interested in the set’s eighth disc, which contains Impressions: A Journey Behind the Scenes of Twin Peaks, 10 half-hour documentaries directed by Lynch’s friend and archivist Jason S. At no point during these mini-docs does Lynch look into the camera and say, “By the way Jason, here’s what actually happened to Cooper and Laura at the end of episode 18.” But watching an artist at work does provide some insights into his art.
Jason S. mostly films the Twin Peaks prep: the set-building, the crew conferences, and the rehearsals. About 80 percent of the time, he holds his camera steady on Lynch’s reactions. Sometimes, the director gets frustrated and even explosively angry, because there’s too much noise, too many people hovering around with questions, or because the process of setting up a shot is dragging on too long. More often, he seems as content as a weekend craftsman, tinkering in his garage.
In one of the Jason S. shorts, called The Number of Completion, Lynch putters between soundstages, checking on the progress of some of the series’s strangest scenes. He drops by a retro radio station, where a character known as “the Woodsman” will soon broadcast a creepy speech. He marvels at the grandeur of an old theater, where another extra-dimensional entity called “the Fireman” will reside. He stops in the Twin Peaks sheriff’s office, where he contemplates a hole in the floor where otherworldly jets of fire are about to erupt. He calls to an assistant, “Bring me a dozen eggs and some creamed corn.” Then he gets down on his knees by the hole, and starts smearing it with yellowish goo.
In another Jason S. film A Bloody Finger in Your Mouth, Lynch is working with actor Laura Dern. First, he guides her exaggerated facial expressions from behind his monitor. Then he stands right next to her with a handful of raw bread dough, molding it around her face. This is Lynch the filmmaker working just like Lynch the sculptor: shaping the image he wants with his actual hands.
Why does this matter? Because thinking about Twin Peaks just as a TV show — or even as an 18-hour movie — doesn’t really explain what Lynch does. He works more like a graphic artist or a poet, intuitively fussing and fiddling and erasing and re-drawing, until he achieves something that was hard to articulate before he started working to bring it into the world.
Let’s be clear: saying “Twin Peaks isn’t just television” doesn’t mean it’s better… only that it’s different. And in some significant ways, it isn’t that different. In the original 1990–91 ABC series, Lynch and Frost borrowed elements from serialized TV, like daytime soaps and police procedurals, and classic Hollywood, like film noir and lurid melodramas. They just used them more for their visual and emotional textures than as a blueprint. The Showtime Twin Peaks takes advantage of the freedom of premium cable to make the violence bloodier and the sexual perversions more explicit. But Lynch and Frost are still chasing a feeling, not hatching a plot.
The Blu-ray featurettes clarify some of what that feeling is. There are moments in the Impressions collection where Lynch’s intensity is downright scary. When he’s advising the actor Christophe Zajac-Denek on how his character Ike “the Spike” should wield his icepick, he snarls and shouts, “Slam that thing in there!” When he’s coaching child actors to make noises as though they’re in pain, he keeps stopping them because they look “too happy.” There’s clearly something angry and ugly within Lynch, which he needed to include in Twin Peaks.
But there’s a sweetness, too. A lot of what’s so fascinating about the Jason S. films is how Lynch can turn on a dime from furious to generous. He snaps that the tight production schedule is robbing him of his chance to experiment (or, as he calls it, “get dreamy”). But when he gets the shot he wants, he’s effusive with praise for his crew.
He’s even kinder to his cast. Before one scene with Grace Zabriskie, he tells her, “I love you so much” right before yelling, “Action!” He inconveniences the entire production to accommodate the few days that Miguel Ferrer is available. He frequently gathers the crew around to give the actors a round of applause on their last day of shooting. All this lends credence to one of the more “meta” critical readings of Twin Peaks: The Return, which is that it’s partly about countering all the meanness in the world by spending time in the company of the people who matter, before everything changes for the worse.
Some of the funniest moments in the Twin Peaks featurettes see both Lynch veterans like Sherilyn Fenn and newcomers like Jim Belushi admitting that they have no idea why he’s asking them to do what they’re doing. Fenn starts to request some clarification on the meaning of one her lines, then stops herself, saying, “I won’t ask you. You won’t tell me.” And when Lynch directs Belushi to pretend that he has no clue what’s going on in a scene, he laughs, “Like real life!” (Laura Dern, on the other hand, immediately realizes that the time on a digital clock in one of her scenes is 2:53 because 2 + 5 + 3 = 10, which is “the number of completion”… and then proudly declares that she knows this because, “I work for David Lynch.”)
In lieu of explanations, Lynch tweaks his actors’ performances right down to the inflections on a single word. He walks them through every broad move and odd gesture, sounding at times like he’s asking them to re-create a dream he had last night.
Watching Lynch making Twin Peaks may irritate viewers who think both he and his show are pretentious and pointless. But it will at least clarify that he’s being true to a vision. At one point, while marveling at the wonder of a set that his team has created, he urges his cinematographer Peter Deming to keep the lighting low, because even though the space is amazing, “The less you see, the better.” For anyone who wants to know what Twin Peaks is about, there’s an answer. It’s about crafting something deliberately, and then obscuring it in shadow.


At Qualcomm’s conference on Tuesday, AMD’s corporate vice president and GM Kevin Lensing made a surprise guest appearance, announcing that the two companies were working together to power a new line of HP and Asus PCs, powered by Snapdragon 835. The Always Connected PCs are powered by gigabit LTE, to stay connected without relying on Wi-Fi.
AMD has had a lot of new releases this year, including the launch of the flagship desktop AMD Ryzen ThreadRipper in the summer and the Ryzen mobile chips with integrated Radeon Vega graphics launched in October. But the partnership with Qualcomm can be seen as the next big move for AMD, and a way for the semiconductor to challenge Intel.
Lensing didn’t give many details on what AMD’s work on the new PCs will entail, but Qualcomm’s conference will last all week, and more information may come out in the coming days.




Like any professional sports league, the upcoming Overwatch League is gearing up to sell plenty of merchandise. But unlike, say, the NFL or NBA, you’ll be able to buy both real-world and virtual versions of each team’s uniform.
Today, Blizzard announced some of the merchandise that it will start selling tomorrow, and it includes the usual suspects, like New Era caps and a range of apparel including league-branded sweaters and jackets. Fans will also be able to support each of the league’s 12 teams by buying the T-shirt-style uniforms players will wear during games.
But, as an e-sports league, Blizzard’s upcoming pro circuit also includes digital uniforms for in-game characters, so that viewers can tell who is shooting at who. Starting early next year, fans will be able to purchase the home-game uniforms (known as skins) of the league’s teams for each of the 26 in-game characters. Players will then be able to use those skins when they play, as a way of showing support for their favorite Overwatch League club.
Blizzard Overwatch already sells a range of different skins in Overwatch, available through loot boxes, and regularly releases new ones around special events like holidays. But the new pro league jerseys work a little bit differently. Blizzard will be introducing a new in-game currency called “league tokens” that can only be used to buy Overwatch League skins. The company says the decision was made so that the profits from purchases can be properly split between the developer and each of the league’s teams. The company will be giving each Overwatch player enough tokens for one free league skin.
Related
The Overwatch League will kick off its first season in January, and it represents an ambitious attempt from Blizzard to meld the worlds of e-sports and traditional sports. It features a city-based structure, with some of the biggest owners from leagues like the NBA and NFL, and offers players contracts with guaranteed salaries, health insurance, and retirement plans. Meanwhile, its roster of clubs is more global than most traditional sports leagues, with teams in Seoul, London, and Shanghai, in addition to the United States.
It’s a big gamble on the mainstream potential of e-sports, and it starts very soon: the Overwatch League pre-season starts tomorrow, while the first proper match will be on January 10th at Blizzard’s new e-sports arena in Los Angeles.


Qualcomm today announced that its next flagship processor will be called the Snapdragon 845, the company said at its Snapdragon Tech Summit. The 845 is a direct successor to last year’s very popular Snapdragon 835, and it will likely bring improved performance, better power efficiency, and improved image processing. The Snapdragon 845 will likely be found in many high-end Android phones in 2018, though it is also expected to make its way to Windows 10 laptops as well.
Last year’s Snapdragon 835 featured a 10nm manufacturing process, and the 845 is expected to be the same. Qualcomm will pair the 845 with its latest X20 LTE modem, which provides gigabit connectivity on supported networks. Qualcomm is hosting its annual conference this week, where we expect to learn more about the Snapdragon 845 and all of its capabilities, so stay tuned for more.



Venture capitalist Shervin Pishevar has taken a leave of absence from Sherpa Capital and Virgin Hyperloop One in the wake of multiple sexual misconduct allegations, saying he plans to focus on pursuing a defamation lawsuit that he filed last month against a political opposition research group. Pishevar says that the decision is meant to “eliminate any potential distraction to the great and important work being done at these companies.”
Pishevar’s lawsuit claims that he was targeted for a “smear campaign” that fabricated false rumors about him, including one that said he had paid to settle a sexual assault accusation in London. Pishevar was indeed detained (but not charged) earlier this year in connection to a sexual assault. Reports by Forbes and Fast Company on the incident, however, also included details from an apparently forged police report. In his statement today, Pishevar says he hopes to “unearth who fabricated the fraudulent London ‘police report,’ and who is responsible for spreading false rumors about me.”
But this wasn’t the only allegation against Pishevar. Bloomberg recently reported that Pishevar had forcibly kissed, groped, or harassed five women, abusing his power as an investor in companies like Uber, where he once served on the board of directors. (Pishevar’s representatives said they were “confident that these anecdotes will be shown to be untrue.”) Two Democratic senators subsequently donated money that Pishevar had given them to charity, and he reportedly faced pressure to resign from the board of Hyperloop One. Pishevar, however, says the leave of absence is something he “came to and proposed on my own accord.” His full statement is below.
As many of you may have seen in recent news coverage, I filed a lawsuit last month against what I believe to be potential perpetrators of a smear campaign against me. As that legal action progresses, it is my priority to ensure that the Sherpa Capital family is not adversely affected.
Therefore, I have decided to take an immediate leave of absence from my duties at Sherpa Capital and Virgin Hyperloop One, as well as my portfolio company board responsibilities, so that I can pursue the prosecution of my lawsuit, where I am confident I will be
vindicated. Through the discovery process, I hope to unearth who fabricated the fraudulent London "police report," and who is responsible for spreading false rumors about me.
This was a decision I came to and proposed on my own accord. It is not one I took lightly and it was a difficult decision that was guided by Sherpa Capital's abiding belief in service and putting others before ourselves.
I care deeply about the incredible teams at Sherpa Capital and our portfolio companies and Virgin Hyperloop One, and hope that my decision to take a leave of absence will eliminate any potential distraction to the great and important work being done at these companies.

Update 8:00AM ET: Added link to Fast Company report on Pishevar’s arrest.


Microsoft and Qualcomm are officially unveiling the first ARM-powered Windows 10 laptops today. As expected, HP, Lenovo, and Asus are the manufacturers creating these new laptops that include a Qualcomm Snapdragon 835 processor. The first devices are similar to 2-in-1 tablet / laptops we’ve seen with Intel-based processors in them, but they differ primarily because of the version of Windows 10 and Qualcomm processor that’s powering them.
Microsoft has previously shown Photoshop running on an ARM version of Windows 10, and the company has developed a special emulator to run traditional x86 apps on these new devices. These devices look and feel like normal laptops, and will run most of the software you’d expect to see on a laptop. HP and Asus are announcing their devices today, and Lenovo is expected to follow in the coming weeks.
The obvious question is why do these devices even exist? Microsoft has worked with Qualcomm to create these “always-on” PCs so that they’re always connected to LTE connections, and work more like an iPad than a traditional Windows laptop. That means you open the laptop up and it should instantly resume, or you close the lid and never have to worry about the battery draining. These devices should have battery benefits and the type of LTE connectivity that we haven’t seen regularly in Windows laptops.
HP and Asus’ devices will include Windows 10 S, designed to only run apps from the Windows Store, but users will be able to upgrade to Windows 10 Pro free of charge (for now) to get access to the full desktop apps. Microsoft has natively compiled Windows 10 to run on ARM chipsets, so all Windows processes, Edge, and the shell all run natively without emulation. Microsoft has also looked at the top third-party desktop applications and natively recompiled a set of system DLLs that they rely on to ensure performance is solid.
Microsoft’s emulation work does mean that you’ll be able to download most 32-bit exe files from the web and install them on ARM-powered laptops. There are a few exceptions, though. 64-bit Windows apps aren’t supported yet (developers will be able to recompile them in the future), and Microsoft isn’t supporting apps that use kernel mode drivers. That means most third-party antivirus software won’t be compatible, and the vast majority of games that use anti-cheat software will also not work correctly.
Everything else should run just fine, including apps like Photoshop, Office, and Chrome. Performance is obviously still the big question around these devices vs. Intel-based ones, but the idea is that all-day battery life and not having to charge your device regularly might make up for a slight hit to performance. The first devices should run for around 20–22 hours of active use, but if those estimates are anything like what we see with Intel-based laptops then the reality could be a lot less. We’ll be testing them heavily to find out.
There are obvious concerns around Microsoft and Qualcomm’s ARM on Windows efforts. We’ve seen similar promises of the “connected mobile PC” before, and they’ve flopped. Microsoft worked with Nvidia to produce Windows RT tablets five years ago, but the performance and battery life claims never lived up to reality and the operating system didn’t run traditional desktop applications. It was a mess that looked like a bad engineering project, rather than an operating system for consumers, students, and businesses.
Microsoft isn’t working with Nvidia yet on this new effort, and the company won’t say if it plans to in the future. Either way, it’s clear from the emulation software that Microsoft has learned some valuable lessons from the Windows RT disaster. These new laptops look like any regular device you’d see in a retail store today, and they’re designed to be thinner and lighter while improving battery life and maintaining app compatibility. They don’t include the typical fans you’d find in a laptop, so they’ll also be silent to use.
Asus’ NovaGo 2-in-1 includes a 13.3-inch HD display, up to 8GB of RAM, and up to 256GB of storage. There’s even stylus support, and two USB 3.1 ports, a HDMI port, and a microSD reader. Asus’ NovaGo will be priced starting at $599 for 4GB of RAM and 64GB of storage. A $799 model will include 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage. HP’s Envy x2 is a slightly smaller 2-in-1 with a 12.3-inch display, up to 8GB of RAM, and up to 256GB of storage. HP’s device also supports a stylus, and both of these will come with LTE connectivity. That should be something we’ll see on most, if not all, ARM-powered Windows 10 laptops, enabling connectivity away from Wi-Fi hot spots. HP’s Envy x2 will be available in Spring next year.
These first devices lay the foundations for the future of what’s to come from this new Windows 10 on ARM effort. We could see tablets, and more hybrid devices running on this new software. One thing we’re unlikely to see is phone hybrids for now, as Microsoft tells me the current wave of devices doesn’t support a telephony stack.
If the battery life and performance live up to Microsoft and Qualcomm’s claims, then it could be an exciting upcoming year for Windows laptops. Microsoft is also rumored to be creating its own special notepad-like device with an ARM chipset, and if the company goes ahead with it then we’ll likely see it appear next year. For now, we’ll have a closer look at the new ARM-based Windows laptops and performance shortly from Qualcomm’s Snapdragon summit, so stay tuned to The Verge.


If you’ve been on the internet recently you might have come across the above tweet, showing a robot with a CCTV camera for a head doing some half-hearted pole-dancing. It’s a good tweet! It captures a bunch of extremely 2017 feelings, including dystopia, fear of job automation, and the general mood of absurdity that’s going around a lot. Plus, you know, it’s a pole-dancing robot.
But, as a famous philosopher once asked: why is this robot pole dancing? To what end? Well it turns out it’s art, but there’s a bit more to it than that.
The robot is actually the creation of UK artist Giles Walker, who made the bot back in 2008. There are actually two pole-dancing robots, and a third companion that’s supposed to be DJ-ing. (It has a megaphone for a head instead of a camera.) But, as Walker explains to The Verge, the bots aren’t really supposed to be a commentary on robotics or job automation. They’re about surveillance.
“At the time [when I made them], they were putting CCTV cameras up all around London, and Britain was becoming the most surveilled society in the world,” says Walker. “So I was playing with this idea of voyeurism, and who has the power in that relationship; whether it’s the voyeur or the person being watched.”
He adds that there was a lot of discussion in the news at the time about the “sexed up” Iraq dossier — a document published by the British government examining the existence of WMDs in Iraq, which a source later said had been exaggerated. “So I was just playing with the idea that if a document could be sexed up, maybe CCTV cameras could be as well,” says Walker. “That’s how I got to these mechanical peeping toms. It was a mingling of all those things.”
Since their creation, the robots have taken on a life of their own. Pictures and videos of them resurface online every now and again, and Walker hires them out to tech conferences, festivals, and other events. (They cost around £1,000 a day or $1,343.) And although they look straight out of a sci-fi B-movie, the bots aren’t technologically complex. They’re made from shop mannequins and are powered by windscreen wiper motors, with their movements controlled by short, pre-defined loops. “At that time I built all my stuff out of scrap and found objects,” says Walker. “So not much tech in there. It’s really old school.”
Walker’s other projects include Breakdown Clown (an animatronic sculpture that monologues while its speech patterns slowly degenerate); The Last Supper (a group of 13 sculptures that talk, argue, and smoke around a table); and a series of “homeless” robot sculptures placed in cities as guerrilla art.
As pieces of art that might show up at a tech conference, though, the pole-dancing robots feel dated in 2017. The tech industry is only just beginning to come to terms with its long history of ingrained sexism and discrimination, and some people might see sexualized robots at a tech fair as an example of the bro culture that has, in part, contributed to these problems.
Walker didn’t create the robots with these issues in mind, but says he’d think twice before making them again. He says the rise of “sexbots” particularly has given the sculptures new connotations. “These are meant to be a play on voyeurism, but because of the sexbot thing they’ve taken on a slightly menacing touch,” he says. Despite that, though, they’re still touring, and Walker has no plans to stop. “They’re the most popular thing I’ve done,” he says. “Like a sort of Christmas jingle. They’ve become iconic.”


Three months ago, YouTube pulled its programming from Amazon’s Echo Show device — the first skirmish in what is apparently an ongoing war. Shortly after, Amazon stopped selling the Nest E Thermostat, Nest’s Camera IQ, and the Nest Secure alarm system. Two weeks ago, Amazon got YouTube back on the Echo Show by simply directing users to the web version, a workaround that left a lot to be desired. But even that version won’t be available after today.
In a statement this afternoon, a YouTube spokesperson announced that the company was withdrawing support for its service on both the Echo Show and, more importantly, Amazon’s Fire TV:
“​We’ve been trying to reach agreement with Amazon to give consumers access to each other's products and services. But Amazon doesn't carry Google products like Chromecast and Google Home, doesn't make Prime Video available for Google Cast users, and last month stopped selling some of Nest's latest products. Given this lack of reciprocity, we are no longer supporting YouTube on Echo Show and FireTV. We hope we can reach an agreement to resolve these issues soon.”
YouTube will be pulled from the Echo Show today. Customers who own an Fire TV will start seeing a notification today warning them that the service will be unavailable as of January 1st, 2018. Perhaps Google is hoping that the threat of losing YouTube on its main streaming device will force Amazon to negotiate a truce both sides can live with before the new year.
For bonus points, try asking Alexa to order you a Chromecast and see how she responds. I was offered a Fire TV stick, then a Roku, before she ran out of options.


Getting stranded during a spacewalk is a terrifying scenario for any astronaut to imagine — but what if space station crew members could simply press a button during such an event and be immediately transported back to safety?
That’s the idea behind new technology in development dubbed the “Take Me Home” button. It’s a complex system of hardware and software that could be incorporated into a space suit and can automatically guide an astronaut home during an emergency in space. The concept is currently being developed with partial NASA funding at Draper, an engineering company with a long history of creating technologies for crewed spaceflight.
Right now, NASA astronauts on board the ISS already have numerous redundancies in place during spacewalks to keep them safe. For one, they stay tethered to the space station at all times when they’re outside in their space suits. But in the unlikely event of a disconnection, astronauts also wear a jet backpack known as SAFER that they can use to guide themselves back to the space station. SAFER is equipped with very small thrusters that expel gas and propel an astronaut in the direction he or she wants to go. However, astronauts have to manually control SAFER using a box attached to their suit, which can be difficult if they become disoriented during an emergency. Plus, getting skilled at using the system requires a lot of hours of training in virtual reality on the ground first.
“You see how difficult it is to complete those operations and how much time it takes to become proficient at it,” Kevin Duda, a space systems engineer at Draper who has been developing the “Take Me Home” button, tells The Verge. “That kind of motivated us to think about how do you do that from an automatic perspective.”
The “Take Me Home” button would basically get rid of the need for that SAFER control box. Instead, astronauts would be able to press a button on their suit to activate the system, or it could be activated remotely by astronauts on board the station, in case they see a fellow crew member in distress during a spacewalk. Such a system could be useful in case an astronaut becomes disconnected or if a crew member’s space suit starts to malfunction, like when an Italian astronaut nearly drowned in 2013 after his helmet filled with water.
Developing such an automatic return system has been no easy task, though. The biggest hurdle has been to create a navigation system for a space suit, which doesn’t exist at the moment. That’s been tricky since it’s hard to pinpoint exactly where a person is in space. Duda says he’s come up with a navigation system that incorporates a high-resolution camera to distinguish landmarks around an astronauts, as well as a unit that can measure how a person is moving through space. The system could also use a star tracker to figure out an astronaut’s position in relation to the stars in the sky. Plus, even in lower Earth orbit, it’s possible to get GPS signals from satellites that could be utilized as well.
Beyond a navigation system, Duda says the “Take Me Home” button also needs a guidance system, which tells the space suit where it needs to go. Most likely, astronauts experiencing an emergency will want to return to an airlock to get back inside the space station as quickly as possible. Draper has been developing an algorithm that can help compute the best path for an astronaut to get back to safety, without running into anything dangerous. The system could then use the small thrusters on the SAFER backpack to propel a distressed astronaut in the right direction.
Draper has filed a patent for the automatic-return system and the company has demonstrated how the technology might work in simulations. But in order to fully build a functioning system, Duda says they need a long-term funding from NASA. “The technology we believe is there to package into a solution,” says Duda. “It’s just a matter of commitment from the customer to make this a reality.”
But if Draper does get funding, the company argues this technology could be applied to more things than just space. An automatic return system could be useful for scuba divers, for instance, who need to return to safety, or a version of the system could be useful for firefighters, in order to compute the best route to follow to get out of a dangerous building. “There are applications that can have just as big an impact on Earth as they do for astronauts,” says Duda.



Google has updated search in three ways over the past few weeks, and today, the company explained how these new features encourage users to fall further down a search hole. All three updates let users expand their search beyond the information they originally intended to find.
"Knowledge panels" now show related content, so if you search for skiing, you'll also be able to jump to a search about other snow-related sports, like snowboarding, or a more focused skiing search, like "ski jumping." You can see an example here:
Meanwhile, "featured snippets," which already give users a snapshot of whatever they're searching, will include more images along with related searches. These are algorithmically determined, Google says.
These are the new featured snippets:
Finally, Google is proving additional search suggestions, similar to knowledge panels, but it seems Google will automatically deduce the topic you're researching based off back-to-back searches. So if you look up two individual soccer players, you'll then see other related athletes.
I can't wait for us all to fall so deep down a Google search hole that we forgot what we initially wanted to look up.


If there’s one hormone most people know by name, it’s oxytocin (not to be confused with the opioid oxycontin) — the so-called “love hormone” that we’re told creates maternal love, better relationships, and all that is warm and fuzzy and good. Scientists have created an artificial version that lasts longer and is less likely to have negative health effects, but these fixes might not be the solution to the chemical’s biggest problems.
Oxytocin is released during lactation and orgasms, and one widely cited (though later challenged) study suggested that whiff of the chemical can increase trust in a money-sharing game. It follows, then, that researchers think the hormone shows promise as treatment for social anxiety, autism, and borderline personality disorder. Because oxytocin is known for having negative cardiovascular effects like increased heart rate and blood pressure, researchers created a synthetic hormone that re-created its positive results but didn’t seem to affect the heart. (The results were published today in the journal Science Signaling.) Still, before we rush to administer this synthetic hormone, it’s important to remember all the other side effects the chemical can cause.
The scientists in today’s study engineered a tweaked version of oxytocin that’s more stable than the real thing, meaning it lasts longer, and tested it several ways. Synthetic oxytocin given to human uterine cells caused the cells to contract, just like the natural hormone is supposed to do. Rats treated with synthetic oxytocin after being taught to be afraid of a stimuli were less afraid than the untreated rats. And synthetic oxytocin didn’t have any effects on human heart cells, though the natural hormone did, suggesting that in a working human heart, the synthetic stuff might not cause the same complications.
Creating an artificial version of the hormone can help us better understand the original hormone and how it works, though it’s still unclear what the synthetic stuff would do in actual humans. But the authors aren’t doing this just to help us understand oxytocin. They think their hormone has promise for treating social problems, and this application still plays into the hype around oxytocin. As science journalist Ed Yong writes, the hype can be dangerous.
There’s been skepticism over whether oxytocin really creates trust. A lot of the research promoting its benefits isn’t solid as breathless media reports would suggest; oxytocin probably can’t keep your spouse from cheating, for example. In one study, people who sniffed oxytocin became less cooperative in a game if they were playing with strangers. The chemical that facilitates the mother-child bond might also make us more bigoted against people who aren’t like us and has been linked to increased envy and gloating. No word on whether the synthetic version of the hormone can avoid these side effects.
This isn’t to say that we shouldn’t do research on oxytocin, or that its positive effects are all false. It could well be that the benefits of any potential treatment would outweigh the downsides in certain cases. But before we get there, we need more rigorous research on how oxytocin works overall, not just any optimistic evaluation of the upsides.




Honor today officially unveiled two new phones, including its latest flagship device, the Honor View 10. The Huawei sub-company says the phone uses an AI processor that can recognize different scenes to take better photos, optimize the phone's system, and improve ease of use. The V10 comes with a Full HD 6-inch display on a 18:9 screen, a dual-lens camera (at 16MP and 20MP), 6GB of RAM, a 13MP front-facing camera, fast charging, and a new EMUI based on Android 8. The phone also can be charged up to 50 percent in 30 minutes. Most notably, however, the V10 has what's called a 3D Facial Animation feature, which is a carbon copy of Apple's Animoji that tracks your face and transposes that onto an animal character. "We want to be friends with the young people," said Honor president George Zhao at the product launch in London.
Honor is really emphasizing the AI capabilities of its device with the Kirin 970 chip, and the phone features facial unlocking, intelligent display rotation (so the phone doesn’t change orientation if you’re using it in bed for example), and an intelligent notifications lock. There's also a function for users to take a photo of a sign in another language, which can be translated to English — a similar function to Google Lens.
The V10 comes in navy blue or midnight black, and is available globally starting on January 8th for £449.99 (around $605).
In addition to the View 10, Honor also announced the more affordable Honor 7X, which has a 5.93-inch screen with an 18:9 ratio and an edge-to-edge screen. It features a dual-lens 16MP and 2MP rear camera, and an autofocus rate of 0.18 seconds. It also comes with 4GB of RAM and a 3,340mAh battery that should last more than one day on a single charge, the company says. The 7X is £269.99 (around $365) and available now.
Photography by Thuy Ong / The Verge



The subscription ticketing service MoviePass has been steadily lowering its prices to entice customers, and now theater chain Cinemark is striking back with its own subscription club. Dubbed Cinemark Movie Club, the service uses a decidedly different approach than Moviepass’ all-you-can-eat style. It’s more of a rewards program that comes with a ticket price lock-in. Members pay $8.99 per month, which provides them with one 2D movie ticket anytime they want, and lets them buy any additional tickets at $8.99 throughout the month.
That doesn’t sound remotely close to the value of MoviePass, which grants members one movie ticket per day for a $9.95 per month flat fee. But Cinemark is clearly hoping to compete when it comes to flexibility. Movie Club customers will be able to upgrade their tickets to formats like 3D; Cinemark’s own in-house premium-screen format, XD; or screenings with D-Box motion simulator chairs. (MoviePass customers only have access to 2D screenings.) Members can also buy tickets in advance — another leg up on MoviePass, which requires audiences to buy at the theater — and will receive a 20 percent discount on concessions. If members don’t use their free ticket in a given month, it will simply roll over, the same way unused minutes work on some smartphone plans.
Formats like Cinemark XD or the chain’s motion-simulator screenings are arguably gimmicks rather than upgrades, especially when compared to competing options like IMAX Laser or the Dolby Vision-powered AMC Prime. And the relative value of high-end presentation formats as a whole is another conversation entirely. But even outside of those options, Movie Club does represent a discount. In Cinemark’s theater in downtown Los Angeles, a Friday-night screening of Justice League in 2D is priced at $13. Factor in two tickets at Movie Club prices, and the discount on what would normally be a $40 purchase of drinks, popcorn, and candy, and a night out at the movies goes from $66 to $52. With just a single MoviePass subscriber in the party, the same night would cost $63.
That’s the trick with MoviePass: It’s most valuable to audience members who are content with entry-level screening options and the luck of the draw at the box office, especially if they live in major cities, where ticket prices tend to be higher than MoviePass' monthly fee. Theater chains, on the other hand, look to premium-format screens as a way to differentiate themselves from at-home viewing at a time when theatrical attendance has grown stagnant. Given that dynamic — and the tremendous waves of press that MoviePass’ increasingly cheaper prices continue to generate — it makes sense for chains like Cinemark to roll out their own options to encourage attendance at the screens they see as most vital to the future of their business.


It’s well-established that talent is in short supply in the AI industry, but a new report from Chinese tech giant Tencent underscores how great the need might be. According to the study, compiled by the Tencent Research Institute, there are just 300,000 “AI researchers and practitioners” worldwide, but the “market demand” is for millions of roles.
These are unavoidably speculative figures, and the study does not offer much detail on how they were reached, but as a general trend they fit with other, more anecdotal reports. Around the world, tech giants regularly complain about the difficulty hiring AI engineers, and the demand has pushed salaries to absurd heights. Individuals with just a few year’s experience can expect base pay of between $300,000 and $500,000 a year, says The New York Times, while the very best will collect millions. One independent AI lab told the publication that there were only 10,000 individuals worldwide with the right skills to spearhead serious new AI projects.
Tencent’s new “2017 Global AI Talent White Paper” suggests the bottleneck here is education. It estimates that 200,000 of the 300,000 active researchers are already employed in various industries (not just tech), while the remaining 100,000 are still studying. Attendance in machine learning and AI courses has skyrocketed in recent years, as has enrollment in online courses, but there is obviously a lag as individuals complete their education.
Interestingly, as well as estimating the industry’s shortfall in talent, the report also speculates about the global competition to develop and deploy it. This has become a popular topic in recent months with policy wonks, with experts in the US warning that America is falling behind rivals like China in the so-called global AI race.
The report itself identifies the US, China, Japan, and UK as key players, with Israel and Canada also warranting mentions. Canada, it says, has strong educational background (which has attracted many big companies to launch research labs there), while the UK is best on the “ethical and legal aspects” of AI, and Japan takes the lead in robotics.
But it’s the US, says the report, that’s currently “far ahead” in terms of global talent, with more universities teaching machine learning and related subjects than any other nation, and more AI startups. (The report estimates that America is home to more than 1,000 of the world’s total of 2,600, while China has nearly 600.) The report doesn’t go so far as to make any predictions about which nation will end up on top in the coming decades, but cites the Chinese government’s stated policy ambition of becoming a world leader in AI by 2030 — a goal that many think is achievable.


In 1998, as the internet began to spread across the country, Congress passed the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA. Among the act’s most consequential provisions was a rule that children under the age of 13 could not give out their personal information without a parent’s permission. Because of the cost of complying with that law, most internet companies have simply forbidden anyone younger than 13 from signing up.
But in practice, a decent number of children under 13 wind up using online services anyway. And if you work at a big, rich social network whose existence is regularly threatened by the emergence of new networks popular with such humans, all those under-13s may begin to look like an army waiting to attack. If you don’t grab those 6-year-old eyeballs, someone else surely will.
And so here’s Messenger Kids, a new chat app for 6- to 12-year-olds that will soon arrive in the iOS App Store. As my colleague Nick Statt wrote yesterday, Messenger Kids offers video and text chat to children, plus controls to restrict who they can talk to. As you would find elsewhere, the app will have plenty of masks, filters, GIFs, stickers, and other shiny objects.
Facebook presented Messenger Kids as a gift to parents, whose children might otherwise sends messages on harder-to-monitor platforms:
Kids told us that the primary reason they want to use social media and messaging platforms is to have fun, which means that an environment that emphasizes safety at the expense of joy and laughter will fail the customer satisfaction test — and potentially leave kids vulnerable to less controlled and more risky social environments. We believe that it’s possible to give kids a fun experience that provides more peace of mind for parents, too.
What are these risky social environments? On Twitter, I asked parents what messaging services their young children used most often. Common replies included services from Apple (iMessage, FaceTime) and Google (Hangouts). Many parents told me their children were indeed using messaging apps from the age of 6. It’s easy to see how Facebook would look at the competitive landscape and conclude that a large market for kids’ messaging apps already exists, and that it would be unwise for the company not to participate.
And yet Messenger Kids gives me pause. Not once in the blog posts it wrote or the interviews it granted did Facebook executives describe the business purpose of Messenger Kids. It did not say how it would monetize the app, other than to say it would not include ads. It did not describe whether parents would have access to any of the data being gathered about their families, or how that data might be used.
A child can use an iMessage account and share very little data about herself with Apple. The same holds true for Hangouts. In many cases, children are using their parents’ accounts, obscuring the data further.
On Messenger Kids, a parent creates an account for a child, establishes a familial relationship within the app, and then begins building their child’s social graph by adding contacts. Notably, the parent is asked to provide their child’s real name. Facebook says it has no plans to turn these shadow accounts into full-fledged Facebook profiles. And yet the data it collects could be useful for ad targeting elsewhere on the service. And should Facebook amass hundreds of millions of underage users, the company will have every incentive to offer one-click exporting of these accounts to real ones on the day the child turns 13.
It didn’t have to be this way. Facebook asks parents to provide their children’s real names, when they could just as easily have asked the parent to pick a nickname, or a symbol, or a picture of a cartoon bear. It could have let parents create a “guest” account inside their profiles with restricted access to their contacts. Instead it acted true to its roots — as a company that maps out the connections between people at the highest resolution possible. (A spokeswoman tells me that in a departure from the company’s official policy, parents are “encouraged” but not required to use their child’s real names.)
Apple and Google profit off children in their own ways, of course, largely through the sale of hardware to their schools. And yet that feels, to me at least, like a fairer trade. Those companies make tools that help children learn. Facebook can only offer a version of the text and video chat they would find elsewhere. But its pitch relies first upon scaring parents — your kids are going to text anyway, they tell us, and there might might be a child predator on the other end of the line:
We also heard some scary things, like a mom who found the online chat her 7 year-old had while playing a video game with an adult male stranger. It began with seemingly friendly questions about her son’s favorite sports teams but slowly led to questions about what he looked like, before finally pushing the boy to send a photo of himself. She was terrified.
Facebook argues that it has uniquely good intentions here, and that its app was built only after thousands of conversations with parents and a blue-ribbon panel of child development experts. (The National PTA is invoked in its blog post, trailed by a disclaimer that the National PTA does not actually endorse any commercial products.) In its pitch to kids to use the app, it reminds me of the mother in Mean Girls: “If you’re gonna drink, I’d rather you do it at the house.”
A key lesson of the past year is that our usage of social media often has unintended consequences, and that those consequences often turn out to be negative. Facebook scarcely has a handle on the way its users are employing private messaging tools to spread misinformation here and abroad — and now it is turning over those tools, dressed up in primary colors, to children.
Facebook’s success has long derived from its willingness to find the limits of our comfort around sharing, and then push right past them. Viewed in that light, building a pipeline of 6-year-old users in the name of protecting them from child predators is part of a long tradition.
And yet at a time when I’m still struggling to understand how social media is altering my own mind, I’m hesitant to recommend it to children. The benefits of Messenger Kids to Facebook are too obvious, and too little acknowledged by its creators. And the benefits to children all but elude me.
Sign up for The Interface


Netflix announced today that the company will write actor Danny Masterson out of its original series The Ranch, following allegations from multiple women who say Masterson raped them in the early 2000s. A Netflix statement says Monday was Masterson’s last day on set, and that the comedy series will continue in 2018 without him.
The announcement comes one day after the Huffington Post reported that one of Masterson’s alleged victims approached Netflix executive Andy Yeatman at a children’s soccer game in Los Angeles this weekend and asked why Netflix hadn’t responded to the allegations against Masterson. Yeatman, Netflix’s director of global kids’ content, reportedly responded, “We don’t believe them.” Yeatman later reportedly said he wasn’t in a position to make any decisions about Masterson.
After discussing with the producers, we've decided to write Danny Masterson off of The Ranch. Yesterday was his last day of work, and we'll make new episodes in 2018 without him.
At least four women have accused Masterson of raping them in the early 2000s. Masterson has been under investigation by the Los Angeles Police Department for about a year, according to the Huffington Post, but the case has stalled, apparently in large part due to Masterson’s Scientology affiliation. The Huffington Post reports that after one of Masterson’s accusers filed a police report in 2004 saying that Masterson raped her while she was “passed out,” “the Church of Scientology intervened and submitted more than 50 affidavits from Scientologists who denied the woman’s account.”
Back in March, journalist Tony Ortega broke the story that Masterson was being investigated by the LAPD for “at least three alleged cases of rape or sodomy of women who were also Scientologists and who claim they were pressured by the Church of Scientology not to contact police or go public with their accusations.”
A law enforcement agent reportedly told Huffington Post reporter Yashar Ali that evidence against Masterson was “overwhelming,” but the case was slow to move forward in the Los Angeles district attorney’s office.
Masterson, who is probably best known for playing Steven Hyde on That 70’s Show, has denied the allegations.
Ten episodes of The Ranch’s second season, which Masterson executive produces along with Ashton Kutcher, are set to land on Netflix on December 15th. A Netflix spokesperson told The Daily Beast that Masterson would still appear in those episodes, plus several season 3 episodes set to premiere in 2018. The streaming service hasn’t commented on whether Masterson will remain an executive producer on the series.
Last month, Netflix fired Kevin Spacey from House of Cards and canceled a Gore Vidal biopic starring Spacey following allegations of sexual assault and harassment. The company also quickly cut ties with Louis CK after the comedian admitted to accusations of sexual misconduct. Netflix has been slower to react to accusations against Masterson, which have been public for months.
The Verge has reached out to Netflix for comment and will update with any new information.




Microsoft first unveiled its Whiteboard app earlier this year, promising to make it available to all Surface devices by the end of 2017. Microsoft is releasing a preview version of Whiteboard today to all Windows 10 devices, allowing multiple people to share and collaborate using digital ink.
The app lets Windows 10 users ink on images, create mockups, or use notes on a virtual whiteboard. Anyone can use the app, but the collaborative multi-party support will require someone in the group to have an active Office 365 subscription. The new Whiteboard app includes collaborative inking, geometry recognition, table conversion, and automatic table shading. It’s really designed to let people share ink across multiple devices, and any work will be automatically saved to separate boards.
Microsoft is rolling this test app out to English Windows 10 editions today, with plans to support additional languages in the coming months. The Whiteboard app for Windows 10 will be available in the Windows Store shortly.


Every day seems to bring a new headline about sexual harassment. It’s crucial to talk about how commonplace this abuse is, but it’s becoming more difficult to do so without becoming exhausted or desensitized. It’s what makes Saturday Night Live’s recent exploration of harassment — a visually soft, musical number from Cecily Strong, Kate McKinnon, Aidy Bryant, Leslie Jones, and Melissa Villaseñor, with guest Saoirse Ronan — feel like a warm shower after a roll through the mud.
Over the weekend, SNL debuted a catchy pop culture parody tackling the unending wave of sexual harassment allegations. This movement seems to have started with Harvey Weinstein, but the ripple has traveled far beyond Hollywood, and into industries and locations across the world. As the song title aptly puts it, “Welcome to Hell.”
Musical comedy is nothing new for SNL, and the show has touched on feminist issues in group parodies before. But the biting juxtaposition of bubblegum pop and sexual harassment feels more like an outtake from the CW show Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, which regularly uses musical comedy to deconstruct thorny subjects like mental health and sexism. “Welcome to Hell” is a dead ringer for Crazy Ex-Girlfriend’s man-hating anthem “Let’s Generalize About Men,” where series co-creator Rachel Bloom and company examine the pitfalls of the male population — and mock the way women talk about them.
Crazy Ex-Girlfriend built its reputation on this sort of egalitarian satire, where its frustrated female characters declare that all men are emotionally stunted children while simultaneously acknowledging that this is absurd hyperbole. (“There are no exceptions / All 3 billion men are like this / All 3.6 billion men.”) It plays on stereotypes from both sides: the women engaging in their proclaimed “primal ritual” of drinking and complaining, the men putting up a tiresome cry of “not all men.” The SNL song, on the other hand, represents a more literal case of ideologies clashing. Its staff can write and perform songs about harassment, but the show has also invited notorious abusers like Casey Affleck to host. (Louis CK has hosted the show four times.)
“Welcome to Hell” is parody, but only in how it chooses to deliver its information. Dressed in pink or pastel and sporting sweetheart looks, these performers do their best bubblegum pop impression while addressing a harsh reality: harassment has always been part of women’s lives. “Oh, this been the damn world,” Strong sings of the recent headlines. Jones pops in to say, “But you do know that it’s like a million times worse for a woman of color, right?” The short even demonstrates some self-defense tactics women are taught: McKinnon holding her keys between her fingers to thwart would-be attackers, or Strong demonstrating acting so crazy, would-be molesters will decide she’s “not worth the trouble.”
The grief people may feel over House of Cards being “ruined” after Kevin Spacey was fired, or whatever surprise they may experience at learning how widespread harassment is, pales in comparison to the frustration that acts as the song’s throughline. Why didn’t women say something? “Well, we definitely did,” Ronan says. “For hundreds of years.” It’s the understatement of the century.







This week, Lamborghini unveiled its all-new Urus super-SUV. This outrageously fast, 650-horsepower, $200,000 off-roading four-door is not the first sport utility vehicle from the famed Italian exotic automaker. That was the Hummer-esque, Countach-powered LM002 of the ‘80s and ‘90s. But that was a long time ago, well before a desire for high-riding vehicles — trucks, sport utes, and crossovers — transitioned from a niche market to a common one to one that has surpassed passenger cars to become the most popular automotive category. (It’s now responsible for two-thirds of all American automotive sales.)
It was also well before a brand like Bentley — another boutique automaker that is, like Lamborghini, part of the VW Group conglomerate — decided that there was room in the marketplace for an SUV that was capable of supercar acceleration, supercar top speeds, and supercar pricing. The brand’s Bentayga SUV, released in the second half of last year, accelerates from 0–60 mph faster than a Chevrolet Corvette, reaches a top speed of 187 mph, and hosts a starting price of $230,000.
Bentley produced the Bentayga because research showed that a great majority of Bentley owners also had a high-end SUV in their fleet. If the brand could gain even an incremental portion of this significant business, it was thought that it could not only organically grow its footprint and offerings, but become more stable and profitable.
This same thought also occurred to Bentley’s cohorts atop the vehicular pyramid. Since its release in summer of 2016, Bentley has pretty much had the ultra luxury SUV market nearly to itself. However, in the next year or so, we will see the release of similarly priced vehicles from brands like Lamborghini (Urus), Aston Martin (DBX), Rolls-Royce (Cullinan), Mercedes-Benz (all-new G-Wagen, Maybach GLS), and even Ferrari (unnamed FUV).
“It’s no surprise to see the ultra premium brands jump onto the crossover brandwagon,” says managing analyst Michael Harley of KBB. “As long as the prestigious badge is on the hood and driving dynamics are tuned to align with the brand’s reputation.”
According to marketing presentations, each of these vehicles is projected by their manufacturer to behave in much the same way as the Bentayga in the global marketplace: to drastically increase or even double brand sales.
But is there buyer bandwidth to accept this expansion? The global ultra luxury car market definitely grew last year by more than 15 percent (to around 28,000 units), fueled mainly by the capricious Chinese market, where demand for very high-end vehicles grew by a whopping 54 percent. Projections remain strong for this segment in 2017 as well. But adding all of these vehicles would mean half as many vehicles again — or more.
“The appetite for ultra luxury SUVs, especially in China, means that if you're not in the segment very soon, you may likely be left behind,” says Dave Sullivan, manager of product analysis with automotive industry research firm AutoPacific. “When the next downturn hits, or if something sends a hiccup through the Chinese economy, the brands without an SUV could see trouble on the horizon.”
But while Bentley reports that it is selling every Bentayga that it can manufacture, the American market demonstrates the glimmerings of saturation. With 10 months on sale thus far this year, Bentayga sales have not matched the number of vehicles sold in just five months in 2016. Though sales may gain strength in the typically strong months of November and December, the increase in sales is not likely to be significant.
“While Bentley has seen its sales numbers level on the Bentayga, the vehicle is currently making up about half of the automaker’s sales,” says KBB’s Harley.
The larger issue is what is happening for the Bentley brand overall in the States. Despite the introduction of Bentayga in August 2016, and a robust overall market hosting the highest annual vehicle sales numbers in American history, overall Bentley sales fell in 2016. Again, while the year-end segment is often strong, at current rates, sales are on target to be down again in 2017. So sales are not doubling here. They’re declining.
If we look at the other offerings in the brand’s portfolio, it is easy to see why: sales of the formerly best-selling Continental coupe and convertible have fallen by nearly 11 percent. Perhaps more importantly, sales of the Flying Spur and Mulsanne sedans are down by more than 40 percent each. Could it be that the Bentayga SUV is, instead of supplementing sales of Bentley vehicles, cannibalizing sales from traditional Bentleys? Granted, the cars in Bentley’s stable are at the end of their life cycle and will soon see replacement, which may invigorate transactions. But as the entire vehicle market flees from cars for crossovers and SUVs, might the decline in sedan sales be more permanent?
“The four-door sedan segment in particular is under pressure,” says Jeff Kuhlman, chief communications officer for Bentley of the Americas. “I don’t think it’s cannibalization, but the sedan segment is down throughout the industry — with BMW 7-Series, with Audi A8, with Mercedes-Maybach and AMG. Both Bentayga and Flying Spur have a place in our portfolio and in the marketplace, but, yes we will see some rationalization in the market.”
If this is the case, it seems that brands like Rolls-Royce should be nervous about such an addition to their portfolio. With its equivalent luxury, and the enhanced practicality and functionality of a larger cargo area and high seating position, a Rolls customer may choose purchase the forthcoming $500,000 Cullinan instead of, as opposed to in addition to, a $500,000 Phantom sedan. This may be especially salient since the SUV will share its underpinnings, styling, and likely much of its rich and exclusive interior appointments with the new four door.
And will the same hold true for other brands? Ferrari currently makes an all-wheel drive four-seater in its GTC4Lusso hatchback grand tourer. Aston currently makes a four-seater in its Rapide, Could these vehicles suffer a similar fate in seeing their share devoured by a crossover / SUV? Because Lamborghini does not currently produce any large cars or sedans that compete directly with their crossover / SUV, producing only sport and super sport cars, is it possible that the brand may potentially fare better with its Urus?
“I think for Rolls-Royce it will do quite well because it will be in a class by itself. But each of these brands and offerings is fairly unique. It’s hard to stereotype the entire ultra luxury segment,” says Sullivan. “We're seen more diversification in the ultra luxury segment than ever before. There will still be room for coupes and sedans, but seekers of prestige now demand a SUV.”
He goes on to proclaim a kind of automotive brinksmanship-cum-mutually assured destruction. “Of course, there is risk of cannibalization of the rest of the lineups for each automaker. But there's also the risk of complete cannibalization by the competition without adding an SUV to their lineup.”
And some of it could play out via timing as well. “In this segment, anybody who has new product, that’s a great benefit,” says Bentley’s Kuhlman. “This segment is particularly sensitive to it. They want the hottest thing.”






Back at IFA, Philips announced a pair of new high-end monitors focused for professional use: the 328P6AU and 328P6VU. They are 32-inch displays that offer 2560 x 1440 QHD resolution and 3840 x 2160 4K resolutions, respectively, as reported by Anandtech. Earlier this week, the company announced that the lower-resolution 328P6AU will be hitting stores in January, but only in Europe for now.
The displays tout the ability to display 100 percent of the sRGB color profile, and 99 percent of the Adobe RGB color range, with support for the HDR10 standard for high-dynamic range content, all of which is important for the target audience of professionals in photography, video, and graphic design that need accurate color depictions in their lines of work. That said, the monitors only have a 60Hz refresh rate, so they’re probably not going to replace your gaming monitor anytime soon.
The most useful addition to the new monitors might be the integrated USB-C dock. The two screens have a USB-C port that supports the USB-C PD (Power Delivery) standard, so you can just plug in your laptop and have it chart, output to the display, and connect to the two USB Type A ports and Ethernet jack all with a single cable. It sounds like the perfect implementation of how you’d want a USB-C display to work. (For those on older displays, the monitors also offer a DisplayPort, HDMI, and D-Sub connectors as well.)
As for pricing and a release date, the 328P6AU — also known as the Brilliance 328P6AUBREB — still doesn’t have a firm US release, but it’s expected a little further down the line according to Anandtech. If you really want the best resolution, you’ll probably want to hold out for the 4K-equipped 328P6VU, although it’ll likely to be somewhat pricer and still only has a nebulous Q1 2018 release window.


Car2Go, the car-sharing service owned by Daimler, made the decision recently to expand its fleet to include larger sedans, assuming the customers who typically use the tiny, two-seat smart cars would appreciate a little more legroom. Now, the company is bringing its Mercedes-Benz luxury CLA and GLA sedans to its largest market yet: New York City.
Car2Go operates in just two boroughs of the city, Brooklyn and Queens. With the addition of the four-door Mercedes sedans to its core fleet of Smart Fortwo vehicles, Car2Go says it now offers 600 vehicles in the city. The company has over 77,000 customers in New York City alone, with 70 percent year-over-year membership growth. And the company says it expects to grow to 1 million members in North America by the end of 2017.
Car2Go, which allows customers to take cars one-way inside of a set perimeter and charges by the minute, launched in 2008 as one of the first car-sharing services to be started by a major automaker. Lately, other big car companies have jumped on the bandwagon, like BMW with ReachNow and General Motors with Maven. Other automakers, like Cadillac and Porsche, have begun to offer subscription services. Taken together, all of these activities can be seen as a hedge by the auto industry against the trend of more young people moving to cities and leaving their cars behind.
The move to expand its vehicle offerings by Daimler can be seen as a direct response to BMW’s expansion of ReachNow in the US. Previously, Car2Go exclusively used the smart cars, while BMW has a selection of more upscale models that includes the BMW 328xi, i3, and the Mini Cooper in both two- and four-door variants. The Daimler-owned service began offering the larger sedans starting in January, bringing the new vehicles first to  DC, Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver, Seattle, Portland, and Denver. (The Verge’s Dami Lee, a regular Car2Go user, recently tested out one of ReachNow’s Mini Coopers and found it to be “a step up over a smart car.”)
What BMW doesn’t have is Run the Jewels. The hip-hop duo recently filmed a “mini-documentary” for Car2Go, taking one of the company’s new sedans on a tour of New York City’s neighborhoods.


Netflix is bringing interactive storytelling to more of its original programming, Bloomberg reports. The streaming service is apparently producing a choose-your-own-adventure-style TV show for adults, similar to its already-available interactive children’s programming.
This past June, Netflix premiered Puss in Book: Trapped in an Epic Tale, an animated series that allowed viewers to make decisions about where the story would go and how it would end. The animated Netflix original Buddy Thunderstruck also featured a few interactive episodes, specifically designed to play off the psychology of viewers who would seek out interactive entertainment. Carla Engelbrecht Fisher, Netflix’s director of product innovation, was a motivating force behind the experiments. The founder of the game design firm No Crusts Interactive, Fisher said in June that interactivity is a natural development for children’s programming: “Kids are already talking to the screen. They’re touching every screen. They think everything is interactive.”
But it remains to be seen how well that impulse translates to adult viewers. Past attempts at adult-focused interactive entertainment have largely been novelties that struggled to find an audience. Netflix needs to figure out whether adults actually want interactive television shows, and how they react to interactivity differently from children. And because the company doesn’t release viewership numbers, it’s unclear how popular the Puss in Book or Buddy Thunderstruck experiments were.
The current choose-your-own-adventure offerings on Netflix are only controllable on certain platforms like smart TVs, Roku devices, and iOS devices, not on the web or Apple TV. Netflix hasn’t released any plot or premiere date information about the new interactive series yet.


Fitbit is releasing the first major update to the Fitbit OS software on its flagship Ionic smartwatch today, bringing a host of new apps and watchfaces to the fledging smartwatch platform.
Leading the charge are 14 new apps from major companies that have been designed specifically for Fitbit’s platform: Surfline, Clue, Game Golf,  Hue Lights, Walgreens, Nest, Yelp, Flipboard, The New York Times, TripAdvisor, Uber, United Airlines, British Airways, and Lyft. Some of those apps (like The New York Times, Yelp, and Hue Lights) will be available starting today, but the majority are slated as coming “before the end of the year” or in January.
Fitbit has also designed three new watchfaces for the Ionic that are bundled with the new update: levels, threads, and mountainscape. Additionally, there’s a new Fitbit Leaderboard app, which lets users compare their fitness stats against friends and family directly from the Ionic.
Along with these official Fitbit apps and watchfaces, the company is adding a new spread of curated user-created apps to the Ionic, some of which the company is previewing here. (It must be said that they look more than a little like ported Pebble apps, which makes sense given Fitbit OS’s Pebble-based heritage.)
Lastly, Fitbit is adding a new early access testing program for the Ionic called Fitbit Labs, which will allow users to test out “experimental apps and clock faces.” The program launches today with two apps: a Fitbit Pet watchface that’s a little like a Tamagotchi, and an app called Think Fast that looks to test mental sharpness. Three more apps — a mood-tracking watchface, a tennis-tracking app, and a treasure-hunting game — are also slated to roll out in for Fitbit Labs testers later this month.



DirecTV Now has surpassed the 1 million subscriber mark, AT&T announced today. The over-the-top service, which picked up 200,000 subscribers in its first month earlier this year, has continued its growth and is on pace to catch the industry leader Sling TV, which has 1.7 million subscribers according to Bloomberg.
While DirecTV Now’s growth is impressive, the company will miss its self-imposed deadline to release its cloud DVR and live TV pausing, both of which were scheduled to be available before the end of the year. "We're thrilled so many customers have come to love DirecTV Now and can't wait to bring them a host of new features in 2018," David Christopher, president of AT&T’s Entertainment Group said.
AT&T also has plans to add 4K HDR support, individual profiles, and downloadable content to the platform next year as well.




Instagram is rolling out a private archive of the ephemeral stories you have posted in the app. Starting today, Instagram will begin to add your expired stories to the archive feature, which until now has been used only to house photos and videos you no longer want to display on your public profile. The stories archive, which you will be able to opt out of, is being introduced globally on Android and iOS.
The stories archive represents another feature copied from Snapchat, which introduced its own version of the archive, called Memories, last year. But the archive differs from Snap’s version in one key respect: Instagram will let you post old stories to your profile in a feature the company is calling Highlights. You’ll be able to package old stories together in the archive, give them a name, and share them to your profile, where they will appear above your other posts.
Instagram says Highlights represent the biggest change to profiles in years. Among other things, the move how stories are gradually eating Instagram from the inside out. From the start, they were placed at the top of the feed; now they’re at the top of the profile as well.
Instagram says a significant (though undisclosed) number of users were downloading their stories daily, and other users complained that they had intended to but forgot. A private archive represents an obvious-to-the-point-of-being-inevitable solution.
The archive is presented in reverse-chronological order, with the most recent stories at the top. Stories are stamped with a date to help you navigate while you scroll. Once you select a story, you can re-share it to other parts of Instagram — as a post to your profile, say, or as a direct message.
As a practical matter, the existence of Snapchat Memories all but required Instagram to build its own version. At times, I’ve used Snapchat to post stories because I know they’ll be saved, and I won’t have to remember to download them within 24 hours. The flip side is that I rarely return to my old stories, wherever I’ve posted them — the posts are intended to be ephemeral, after all. I expect Instagram will eventually play with ways of re-surfacing old stories to users the way Timehop does — otherwise, they may not spend much time diving into the past.
The more dramatic change introduced with the archive is with Highlights. Until now, Instagram profiles have been places for carefully manicured self-presentation. “In a lot of ways, people get to know you through Instagram and your profile,” says Robby Stein, product lead at Instagram. “It’s such an important space, but it’s also one that hasn’t changed very much.”
Highlights could enliven profiles with the typically more candid photos and videos that often appear in stories. As a byproduct, they’ll likely increase the amount of video on most people’s profiles as well. I suspect brands may like Highlights more than regular users do — they offer a convenient way to package related content together and surface it in a prominent place in the app.
You can create as many Highlights as you want, with the most recent one appearing left-most on the screen. You scroll through them horizontally, as with stories in the feed. To create one, open up a story in the archive and tap the ellipsis (...) button to get started. After selecting the stories you want to package together, you pick a cover photo, give it a name, and post it to your profile.
When the story archive is available to your account, you’ll get a notification inside the app. Instagram won’t begin saving your stories until that notification appears, and it offers a link to opt out if you choose.


On May 15th, 1984, Felix Estrada went on a morning run near the University of San Carlos in Guatemala City, just as he did every day. His brother Salomon, who he shared a room with, heard him come back, shower, get dressed, and leave again at 6:30AM. At first, it seemed like any other morning.
But Felix never came home for dinner, and as his cold dinner plate sat on the kitchen table, Salomon and his mother began to worry. “On that day, I did feel like something was strange, particularly because my mother felt it,” Salomon says. “My brother usually arrived at nine o’clock, and at 11 my mom felt something was wrong and said, “Felix hasn’t come home. What could have happened?’”
Salomon never saw Felix again. A 25-year-old university student, Felix was involved in leftist political organizing during the height of the country’s civil war, when leftists were seen as a threat by the state. Until the discovery of state documents two decades later, the Estrada family had no information on what happened to Felix that day.
Now, a project to catalog and digitize Guatemala’s National Police Archives has helped families like the Estradas finally find answers and come closer to reaching justice for the disappearance of their loved ones.
“As a family, what we suffered is difficult to forget,” says Salomon. “You have a life with your disappeared family member. In the case of my brother Felix, I was 17 and he was 25. He was the older one who always took us to play sports or to do the shopping. How does the state expect us to forget?”
An estimated 200,000 people were killed, and 45,000 more disappeared, during Guatemala’s 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996. A truth commission later found the state to be responsible for 93 percent of the human rights abuses during that time. And the 80 million pages of police documents currently being cataloged and digitized reveal incriminating details of how forced disappearances were carried out by the state.
The significance of these documents is invaluable to families, human rights groups, and prosecutors working to uncover the circumstances of the disappearances and killings. The archives are one of three key elements needed to serve justice to perpetrators of wide-scale state-sponsored human rights abuses: witness testimony, forensic evidence, and official documentation. Organizing such a large amount of documents into a digital database is a tedious and resource-intensive process that can cost millions of dollars and last decades, but it’s a necessary one.
“Guatemala’s history is one in which the country, particularly the state, has a great debt to pay to the victims and their family members,” says Alberto Fuentes, director of public relations at the National Police Archives.
For nearly a decade following the 1996 peace accords, access to archival documents from the civil war period was limited. The military archives were closed to the public and the existence of the police archives was denied by the government. Then, in 2005 a nearby bomb threat inadvertently brought authorities to the National Police Archives. For human rights groups, the archives were a treasure trove hidden in plain sight. The building in which they were stored was a half-constructed police hospital, repurposed as an unkept warehouse. Anyone driving by the capital city’s Zone 6 neighborhood wouldn’t have noticed the poorly kept building littered with trash and abandoned cars. But inside were the long-sought-after police archives.
“When the archives appeared, we immediately realized the importance that this held to tell the country’s story,” Fuentes says. “For us, recovering the archives was a golden opportunity.”
The discovery sparked further investigation in the area by the country’s human rights ombudsman, a state employee in charge of protecting human rights. Inside the building, workers revealed rooms full of stacks of documents and books that detailed the police operations.
The documents dated from the founding of the police in 1881 to 1997 when the National Police was dissolved and replaced with a new police body. The files cataloged every tiny detail of police operations, such as vacation days, daily time logs, and other mundane internal communication. At first glance, some of these administrative documents seemed irrelevant to forced disappearances. But with a closer look, the significance of the archives became immediately clear: a series of found files showed a police surveillance system that tracked the political activity of leftist students, activists, and politicians as far back as the 1950s. Statistical analysis of the documents revealed that the mass disappearances were not rogue operations, but part of a systematic method to repress leftist movements.
Investigators also discovered a section in the center of the warehouse that had been completely sealed off by concrete. The ombudsman later said he believed the room was a clandestine detention center used to torture people during the civil war.
Soon after the warehouse’s discovery, human rights organizations and archivists began a coordinated effort to catalog and digitize the documents. This process will take years and is resource-intensive. Today, more than a decade after it was started, just over 20 million pages have been archived, or a quarter of all the material. Fuentes estimates it could be decades before the project is complete.
Nevertheless, the work is critical for Guatemala to come to terms with its past.
“The absolute best source for holding someone accountable is by using his or her own words. By using the records of the police in human rights cases involving policemen and women, you can follow their own actions as reflected in the records they created at the time,” says Trudy Peterson, an archivist from the US who trained the original team of 100 individuals working in Guatemala on the archival process. The project was coordinated by Gustavo Meoño, a lawyer and former guerrilla fighter. Fuentes, another former guerrilla, was also part of this group.
Peterson trained this group of Guatemalans on the key principles of archiving official records. “One of the main challenges was the carelessness of the police in caring for the records, which essentially were dumped in the warehouse,” Peterson says. “The challenge was not only figuring out what records existed and describing them, but also protecting them from rain, insects, bats, and grime.”
In tan coats, rubber gloves, and protective masks, the team of archivists sit at tables in the musty, cold, concrete-walled warehouse where the original documents were found, removing staples and adhesives from documents and folders. The documents are then sent over to the digitization wing of the building to be scanned and put into a digital database.
The project has been made possible by funding from the governments of Sweden, Switzerland, Germany, and the Netherlands. Research institutions such as the University of Texas and University of Oregon have also contributed to the project, housing a part of the archives in their own digital databases.
In its earliest days, many individuals involved worried about government interference with the project in a country where many powerful people still don’t want these documents brought to light. As a precaution, the Swiss Embassy in Guatemala has a backup of the database of the police archives, but the archives report that the project has never been seriously threatened by political interests.
By 2009, the project had advanced enough to be able to answer information requests from family members, local judges, and international human rights organizations. Given the full name of the disappeared person along with the date and location of disappearance, it takes the archivists about 15 days to search the digital database. Nearly 6,000 family members have filed information requests to date. More than 80 percent of these families have received records about their relatives’ disappearances.
“We always knew clearly that our biggest objective and purpose was to give access to the information that the archive holds,” Fuentes says. Salomon Estrada was among the first to file a query for information. At the same time that he filed a request about Felix, he also filed one for his brother Cesar, who had also disappeared during the civil war.
Thanks to the archives, Salomon now has more information about the circumstances of Felix’s disappearance.
After leaving his house, Felix headed to a meeting of political organizers. He and a group of friends were then intercepted by authorities, who brought them to a clandestine torture center. The forced disappearance of Felix and 27 other students was chronicled in what has become known as the “Caso Diario Militar,” named after a leaked military document found in 1999. Felix was tortured for about a month before he was shot to death.
After that, the trail goes cold. Felix’s body was never found, and no one has been held responsible for his murder. Salomon found no information on the disappearance of his brother Cesar.
To this day, Salomon continues to search for truth and justice as one of the founders of an activist group for family members of the disappeared, called Asociación Verdad y Justicia por el Diario Militar, known as Grupo AVEJA. The group was founded after the discovery of the “Diario Militar” documents to demand information about their own family members. Since the founding of the group, its members have all filed information requests through the National Police Archives. Grupo AVEJA also advocates for and shares information about the archives with other institutions that help families find information on the disappeared. “We fight without wanting vengeance and without wanting to create divisions in society,” Salomon says.
Using the National Police Archives and the “Diario Militar” documents, the families of the victims filed a human rights case against the Guatemalan state. In 2012, the case was presented to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, where lawyers relied on more than 3,000 documents in relation to the “Caso Diario Militar,” and 19 documents directly tied to Felix that were found through the police archives. The court ruled that state was responsible for the forced disappearance of the 27 students and for failing to properly investigate the cases.
“It’s a huge victory and it sets a precedent because it shows the new generations that you don’t have to be scared,” Salomon says. “Fear fades away as you continue to fight.”
The “Caso Diario Militar” case presented a largely symbolic victory. To this day, no Guatemalan military or police official has been tried or sentenced for the disappearances in that case. But in other cases that used the documents from the police archives, high-ranking police and military officers have been convicted for human rights abuses.
“In Guatemala, we lived 30 years of absolute impunity,” says Fuentes. “This process of archiving the police documents wasn’t the only thing that changed this, but it is important. It was one of the factors that started to make justice possible.”
More archived documents are digitized and cataloged each day, but funding has started to become more scarce. During the peak of the archives’ digitization efforts, a team of 100 people digitized 2 million documents per year. Now a team of 60 digitizes about half a million pages per year. At this rate, Fuentes estimates that the process could go on for 15 to 20 years.
“It’s important to me to keep searching for more information, because that is how we are going to prove that these things did happen,” says Salomon. “When we have more information and we know the truth, it makes us stronger. We can say to the new generations that they shouldn’t be afraid, because many things that have happened in this country have made people fearful.”
“We are saying to people, ‘This happened, and the only way of making sure it doesn’t happen again is to speak out.’”
In October 2017, Salomon filed another request of information on his brother’s Cesar’s death. Again, the search results came up empty.



Last night, Unicode announced the beta version of 2018’s emoji list, and there’s one proposed update that has nothing to do with adding new candidates: emoji direction.
Emojipedia says the ability to switch the direction of emoji has been a long-requested feature and might not affect all emoji, but only the ones that would “benefit from it most.” Consider the blog’s unfortunate sample graphic below, that uses the train, runner, and gun emoji.
The new Unicode document says of the change:
“Emoji with glyphs that face to the right or left may face either direction, according to vendor preference. However, that can cause a definite change in meaning when exchanging text across platforms. The following ZWJ mechanism can be used to pick an explicit direction.”
Ignoring the abundance of cringe above, the ability to flip emoji could definitely lend itself to conveying more subtle or pointed emoji messages. The pair of eyes that currently looks to the left, for example, would be one of my top picks for this. The shade I could impart if I could pick the direction!
Of course, in addition to this, the list of potential new emoji to be included is also ever evolving. Earlier possibilities that have been now trashed include Frowning Pile Of Poo and Grinning Face With Letters OK As Eyes, but still in the running are Mango, Face With Smiling Eyes And Party Horn And Party Hat, redheads (!), and Badger, which I am personally excited about so I can finally text the “Badger Badger Badger” song to someone entirely in emoji.
Final decisions about next year’s emoji list will be made at the Unicode Technical Meeting in January, and once published, should roll out on major platforms in the latter half of 2018.


Should Elon Musk’s Boring Company ever get the technology and the regulatory approvals in shape to move forward with building a network of tunnels underneath Los Angeles, now we know what that system might look like.
The company recently published a map on its website detailing the first proposed routes. The longest artery stretches about 40 miles from the Sherman Oaks neighborhood, located north of downtown Los Angeles, to Long Beach Airport, which is in the southeastern corner of LA county.
This primary path more or less traces the same route laid out by Interstate 405, and would feature smaller tributary tunnels running off to Santa Monica, Venice, South Bay, Los Angeles International Airport, and Hawthorne (where SpaceX and The Boring Company are headquartered). A second route would run east-west from LAX to south Los Angeles, before following State Route 110 north through downtown and ending at Dodger Stadium.
As we learned in April when Musk first showed off the concept behind The Boring Company, the plan for these tunnels is to solve Los Angeles’ famous automotive congestion by moving some of the traffic flow below ground. But they’re not just empty tunnels; instead, a car on the surface would dodge traffic by taking a sort of elevator down, which would then move as a “sled” through the tunnels at speeds of 150 miles per hour. Bus-like “pods” would move non-car owners around the city, too.
The company stresses in the caption for the map that the initial routes are a “concept,” not “a finalized alignment.” The part highlighted in red represents a 6.5-mile stretch that the company wants to use as a “proof-of-concept” tunnel. There, it would perform verification tests of all the necessary systems, like the car sleds that will whisk riders to their destination, but also the equipment and processes being used to build the tunnels in the first place. The company calls this the “Phase 1” section of the tunnel, and says it won’t be used by the public until it is “deemed successful by County government, City government, and The Boring Company.”
Back in August, The Boring Company won approval from the Hawthorne, California city council to dig a two-mile-long test tunnel under the city streets that surround its headquarters. While that tunnel seems to be coming along nicely, the company has also shared a test video of one of the sleds in action, as well as a demonstration of the elevator concept.
In July, the billionaire CEO combined two of his concurrent transportation projects when he tweeted that he received “verbal govt approval” to build an underground Hyperloop that would connect New York City to Washington, DC.


When Google sliced the headphone jack off from its 2017 generation of Pixel phones, the move was commonly defended by reference to a false equivalence between the iPhone and the latest Pixels. If Apple can go jack-less, went the reasoning, why not Google too? Well, Apple’s iPhone happens to have the best-developed third-party ecosystem of bespoke peripherals and accessories, and today some of the leading audio companies have iPhone-specific, Lightning-connected headphones. Audeze, Shure, Bowers & Wilkins, and a number of others have introduced Lightning audio cables and Lightning versions of their best portable headphones. Google’s preferred USB-C, on the other hand, is a relative wasteland.
Libratone is an interesting Danish company that lands smack in the middle of this Apple-Google dichotomy. In September of 2016, Libratone joined the growing list of companies with Lightning headphones by launching its Q Adapt Lightning earphones with built-in noise cancelling. At the time, I asked the company whether it would do a USB-C version, and was treated to a horror story about the inconsistency of USB-C implementations across phone manufacturers and the dreadful difficulty of making a pair of headphones compatible with every USB-C device on the market. The whole notion that I had in my mind — of Android devices outselling iPhones in most places around the globe and therefore making USB-C more appealing than Lightning — seemed to be crumbling.
The workaround that Libratone chose for Android’s chronic fragmentation was to work with just one company, signing up to be among Google’s first “Made for Google” peripheral-making partners. That’s how the $149 USB-C version of the Q Adapt earphones came to be. Carrying the Google sticker meant Libratone had to only ensure compatibility with one family of phones: Google’s Pixels. The larger and pricier ($249) Q Adapt on-ear headphones, on the other hand, have practically no Google affinity to speak of; they’re just wireless Bluetooth headphones that also have the “Made for Google” sticker on their box. (Aside: I’m really bothered by this sticker. If either pair of headphones were “Made for Google,” shouldn’t that be reflected in the actual packaging? By its transient nature, the sticker betrays the fact that the “Made for Google” idea was an afterthought).
The dearth of USB-C earphones means that the USB-C Q Adapt are practically in a field of their own. My colleague Helen Havlak had an exasperating struggle trying to find a pair for her Pixel 2, and the responses to my tweet below also illustrate the unfulfilled need.
USB-C earphones: do they exist? Asking for many friends.If you make them and think they're good, I'll prioritise them for review.
It’s a good thing, then, that the Libratone Q Adapt earphones sound quite terrific. Granted, I didn’t have the highest expectations from a company with no competition, but Libratone has really crafted a pair of highly entertaining, pleasing earphones — which just happen to connect via USB-C rather than the traditional headphone port. The Q Adapt’s bass is satisfyingly deep and anchors everything nicely, with the rest of the presentation retaining clarity and definition even with the bass bump. I enjoy my music through these earphones, even if they don’t have the widest soundstage or the most refined and precise audio response. They sound good enough for me, and I’m habituated to reviewing $1,500 cans like the Focal Clear.
The USB-C connection helps Libratone port over one of the unique Q Adapt features from the Lightning version of these earphones: adaptive noise cancelling. There are various levels of intensity for it, and you can toggle between them with a dedicated key on the in-line remote control. I find each setting actually alters the sound produced by the Q Adapt quite substantially, so you’re not simply choosing how much external sound to let in: you’re also choosing between varieties of tuning. Without USB-C, this feature would have required batteries inside the earphones, but Libratone’s able to get noise cancelling done with just the power it draws from the phone, which is a nice efficiency win and saves you having to worry about charging.
Between the USB-C plug and the rather long in-line remote, the Q Adapt’s cable is covered in a nice braided fabric, and then after the Y-splitter it’s a relatively thin plastic culminating in the polished plastic ear buds. I find these earphones easy to put on, wear, and remove, and I find that ease of use a big attraction when paired with the friendly sound tuning. Nothing here is groundbreaking or setting new heights of excellence, but everything is done to a high enough level to justify the $149 price tag.
One problem that the Q Adapt earphones do have, though: you have no idea which USB-C device they’ll be compatible with and to what extent. Take smartphones as the obvious example: the Google Pixel 2 and 2 XL work with it perfectly, of course, and so do the Xiaomi Mi Mix 2 and the Huawei Mate 10 Pro. But the OnePlus 5T? Nothing. It’s like I haven’t plugged anything into it at all. When I connect the Q Adapt in-ears to my MacBook Pro, they play very nicely, but I can’t use their remote control to pause the music I’m listening to or adjust its volume. On the Mac, only software-based volume controls — such as the volume slider in Spotify or iTunes — can tweak the sound output of the Q Adapt earphones.
Turning to the Q Adapt on-ears, I find there’s much less excitement and interest to convey. The cynical branding exercise is perfectly obvious here, as these headphones don’t even use a USB-C port to charge; they’re still stuck on the old and busted MicroUSB. Libratone could have used USB-C to charge the Q Adapt on-ears and also receive a digital music signal, much as Bowers & Wilkins does with its own wireless PX headphones. The USB-C connection on the PX delivers a slightly better sound quality than the wireless alternative. But nope, Libratone just slapped that Google sticker on its box.
I can heartily commend the Q Adapt on-ear headphones for their comfort and lightness. They are featherlight but steady on my head, and they make a nice neck decoration when I don’t want to listen to them. It would have been nice if they could contract down to a smaller shape, though.
As the name suggests, this pair of cans shares in the adaptive noise cancelling tech of its in-ear siblings, and I appreciate it just as much here. Where the on-ear Q Adapt differs, though, is that it doesn’t sound anywhere near as good as the USB-C version. The heft of the in-ear Q Adapt’s bass is missing, and the on-ear headphones just sound a whole lot more digital and less convincing. I find the artificiality of their sound distracting, and I find myself avoiding them.
Two other important downsides to the Q Adapt on-ears: The Libratone logo on the right ear cup continually glows while they’re active, and that glow is too bright and just plain annoying (you can turn it off in the app, though apps shouldn’t be necessary to adequately use a thing like headphones). And the battery is not particularly impressive. Libratone promises 20 hours of battery life, but I get down to a 60-percent charge within just a couple of hours of listening and have found myself recharging them even without any epic music marathons (which these headphones’ sound is never good enough to justify).
As far as Android compatibility goes, Android Fast Pair is the only thing distinguishing these Bluetooth Q Adapt on-ears from the mass of Bluetooth headphones out there. On a Pixel 2, you can see the remaining battery level, but that’s pretty much a universal feature in modern platform-agnostic wireless headphones like the B&W PX too. All in all, the Q Adapt on-ears are just overpriced Bluetooth headphones that Google is selling in order to flesh out its online peripherals store. That’s my best guess, anyway.
Libratone’s achievement with the Q Adapt in-ears shouldn’t be underestimated. The company took a successful new product in its Lightning-based earphones, and it successfully transposed it to the Android realm of USB-C. No, the Q Adapt USB-C buds aren’t compatible with every USB-C phone, and that’s a problem, and they also cost $30 more than the now-discounted Q Adapt Lightning model. But even at $149, these are comfortable, good-sounding earphones that are difficult to criticize. If you’re buying a Pixel or any other USB-C phone without a headphone jack of its own, I recommend these as an essential accessory. I just hope their price comes down to more reasonable levels soon.
The Q Adapt on-ear headphones, on the other hand, are hard to rationally justify. Yes, they’re comfy and stylish. But they cost more than the excellent Sony 1000X, which are now at $229, and do absolutely nothing better. These are utterly forgettable Bluetooth headphones that have gained a bit of notoriety by virtue of Google’s endorsement.
Photography by Vlad Savov / The Verge


So you just spent $1,000 on an iPhone X. Once you’ve had your fill of that new screen, the notch, and Face ID, it’s time to master what’s truly the most important feature of Apple’s latest phone: Animoji. Sending a voice message to a friend is a lot more fun when an animated unicorn, robot, or poop emoji is doing the talking and mimicking your facial expressions. That part’s easy, but it didn’t take long for people to come up with another creative way of using Animoji: karaoke.
You’ve seen some of the videos by now. Even Apple made one. So if you’ve come up with the perfect song to lipsync as one of the Animoji characters, the above video will show you the necessary steps. There are two methods for recording Animoji karaoke, and the one you’ll use depends on the length of your video. The quick and dirty way is to record everything right in iMessage. That only gives you 10 seconds to work with, but at least you can switch between Animoji after lipsyncing to see which of them is the best performer for your chosen song.
If you want something longer (like an entire song), you’ll use the new screen recording feature in iOS 11. This approach also sounds much better in the end, since you’ll be importing the actual song into Apple’s iMovie app instead of recording audio with your iPhone’s microphone.
Do I wish we could have demonstrated this process with music that everyone actually recognizes? Oh, definitely. But copyright is a thorny and unrelenting foe, so I’ll have to keep my own perfect song and Animoji combinations to myself. Instead, for the purpose of this video... a holiday song first written in 1864 it is. This one’s not going viral, but you aren’t dealing with those constraints, so don’t shackle your own creativity like me. Bring out your inner Animoji karaoke star.


Spotify released its annual list of the year’s top tracks, artists, and genres this morning,   and, in the words of chief content officer Stefan Blom, “There is no doubt that 2017 was The Year of Ed Sheeran.” Oh, wow.
Sheeran’s “Shape of You,” which is nominated for a Grammy for best solo pop performance, became the most-streamed track in the platform’s history, racking up 1.4 billion streams since its January release. (Out of curiosity, I put that figure into a streaming royalty calculator. About $5.6 million, in case you were wondering!) His March album, Divide (stylized “÷”, which is rude), was streamed 3.1 billion times, making it the top album on Spotify this year.
These figures made Sheeran the top artist on the platform as well, pushing Drake — who topped the list in 2015 and 2016 — down to number two. This was the first year in the top five for runners-up The Weeknd, Kendrick Lamar, and The Chainsmokers. All five of the global top artists were men, and all five of the platform’s top albums were made by men, which is a little annoying and everyone could have done better. The most-streamed female artist was Rihanna, followed by Taylor Swift — an impressive showing considering that none of her music was available on the platform until June.
Oddly, Spotify found that the “most musical” day of 2017 was Tuesday, June 13th. You could choose to see that as four days after Swift’s music returned to the platform, or you could choose to see it as a nice June day when everyone was working on their barbecue playlists and dreaming of the first official weekend of summer.
For some more pleasant numbers, Spotify also called out the wild year-over-year growth in the hip-hop (74 percent) and Latin (110 percent) genres. Two of the top five songs of the year were Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee’s “Despacito,” unsurprising after the song was named the most-streamed track of all time in July. It was streamed 4.6 billion times across all major platforms, including Spotify and YouTube, taking the record from Justin Bieber’s 2015 single “Sorry.”
Of the year’s top five breakout artists, three were former members of popular group acts — Fifth Harmony’s Camila Cabello, One Direction’s Harry Styles, and One Direction’s Liam Payne — and two were SoundCloud rappers — Lil Pump and Trippie Redd. In the US specifically, the most popular track of the year was not “Shape of You,” but Kendrick Lamar’s “HUMBLE,” and number two was Lil Uzi Vert’s “XO TOUR Llif3,” a song he originally uploaded to SoundCloud with a typo-riddled title after the phone storing his debut album was stolen at a show.
Sheeran isn’t the most-streamed artist in the US (he’s number four on that list), as that is a designation that still belongs to the generous, benevolent king of memes.





Nintendo and Nvidia’s relationship is extending beyond the latter company providing the guts for the former’s so-far successful Switch. In an unprecedented collaboration for Nintendo, it’s working with Nvidia to port a selection of Wii and GameCube games to the Android-powered Shield TV for today’s release in China.
If you pick up a Chinese Shield TV, you’ll be able to play New Super Mario Bros. Wii, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and Punch-Out! right away, with other games including Super Mario Galaxy set for future release. All of these games have been remastered in 1080p, meaning they should look a lot better on modern TVs than they did back on the Wii, and they sell for 68 yuan — about $10. The Shield TV itself costs 1499 yuan, or about $225.
This is gameplay of New Super Mario Bros Wii running at 1080p on Nvidia Shield. It is said that Metroid Prime for Wii will also come to the system in the future. pic.twitter.com/FKYFFoPB2R
Though these releases are limited to China, the very fact that first-party Nintendo games are up and running in HD on the Shield TV will no doubt intrigue fans elsewhere. The Switch, after all, uses the same Tegra X1 system-on-chip as the Shield TV, and this could be a sign of what’s to come. Nintendo is yet to offer its Virtual Console service, which offered a wide range of downloadable games from the company’s extensive back catalogue, on the Switch.
Nintendo hasn’t released the Switch in China, and historically doesn’t directly offer its consoles for sale in the market; a subsidiary called iQue has handled China-specific variants of handheld consoles as well as a version of the N64 back in 2003. This, then, is a significant step into Chinese living rooms for Nintendo.
Nvidia is making similarly major efforts to adapt its product to China. The Shield TV sold in the rest of the world runs Android TV and makes use of Google software like the Assistant and the Play Store, neither of which can be used in the region. As such, Nvidia says the Chinese Shield TV will have “completely localized” software with a different store, content from major video platform iQiyi, and Baidu’s voice assistant.


This week on Why'd You Push That Button?, we're talking about sending nudes. Sending a naked photo of yourself in 2017 doesn't need to be complicated, but with hundreds of thousands of messaging apps to choose from, deciding how to send that nude can require some thought. Do you take to Snapchat, iMessage, or Instagram DMs? What about sending them through your dating app?
We talked to two people about how they make sense of this messaging app utopia. An anonymous man named Frank primarily uses gay dating apps like Grindr and Scruff to send his nudes because they feature built-in camera functions, while our other interviewee, Eden Rohatensky, chooses their platform based off the recipient of the message. Someone new might get a nude through Snapchat, whereas their friends might receive them in iMessage. Eden also tells us how they send nudes platonically with friends in an effort to build body positivity, which is fantastic. They wrote a Medium post about this exact thing earlier this year.
We then take all our messaging thoughts to Eric Silverberg, CEO and co-founder of gay dating app Scruff. He explains why he built a camera function into the app and how he thinks the feature will eventually trickle down into straight apps. Scruff tells us that more than a million photos and videos are sent over chat daily.
Listen to the podcast above and read the transcript below.
Ashley: Before we get into photo sharing and everything like that, can you just tell us a little bit about Scruff? How old is the app? You created it, things like that.
Eric Silverberg: Sure. Scruff is more than seven years old. We are one of the largest gay dating apps on iPhone and Android, and one of the first gay dating apps to really go global. We are extremely popular here in the United States, down in Latin America, Western Europe. And we have one of the most unique communities on Scruff. It really is a social app the encompasses everything gay guys like to do online, whether it's meet, chat, hook up, but also connect to events, connect with guys when they travel. We're a pretty broad and encompassing app for a pretty special community.
Ashley: Okay, and you totally created it, right?
Yes. My co-founder and I started it back in 2010.
Kaitlyn: That's older than Tinder, right?
Yeah. We predate Tinder by at least two years.
Ashley: For this episode, we're specifically talking about sending nudes, but really how we ended up coming to you was that one of our interviewees that we talked to mentioned that he uses gay dating apps, and he takes advantage of the cameras that are built into these apps. So I'm just wondering if you can just tell us a little bit about the camera function in Scruff, like how it works and what it's designed to do.
So Scruff gives you a number of ways to share content and share images with other people. You can take photos directly within Scruff and send them in chat. You can also select photos from your camera roll that you've already taken. We also let you archive images, so you can send it from the cloud, if you will, as well. I think one of the unique use cases for gay men and gay apps in particular, is that I think gay guys share nude photos. Gay guys share explicit content. In addition to everything else that I think people will share, especially when they're getting to know each other.
When we were building our photo sharing functionality, we knew that would be a core use case. As we grew, and as it became kind of more central to the app, we built functionality called private albums. So you can, in addition, share a collection of photos or unshare a collection of photos based on your preference.
Kaitlyn: Tinder doesn't have any photo sharing ability in messaging. Not only can you not take photos in the app or store photos in archive, you literally can't share them. So I'm curious how you would think about this feature, if you had made an app that also has women on it. Because I'm guessing that that is a major reason that Tinder is set up that way.
It's a great question. There is a fundamental difference, in my opinion, between apps that cater to gay men and apps that cater to men and women. I think it's rooted in the fact that there is a fundamental power imbalance between men and women, and there is a fundamental question of safety and security, physical safety and security, that exists between men and women that is still present between two men, but I think it's much closer to being equal.
I think because of that asymmetry that, perhaps it's a social construct, but that perceived asymmetry in power, you will see a lot more ... You'll see different design decisions. I think, for example, if a woman received content from a man that was perhaps risque or perhaps explicit, I think her reaction to receiving that kind of content would be very different than on Scruff, where if someone shares a private album with you and it's explicit content, the social construct behind that action and the emotional reaction to that, I think it's just very different.
And so, I can understand why if you're creating an app for men and women, you might want to essentially lock down what you can do and what you can share. And really tune it to, and prioritize, the experience of the women on your app first and foremost.
Ashley: Do you have any warnings about the camera at all? Do you say, "Hey, think before you share," or something like that? I don't know. Because one of the people we talked to mentioned that he was Googling, I guess, because he came on. He was like, "Whoa, I didn't realize that maybe I shouldn't be sharing my dick pics this much. Because, well, that's my body."
Kaitlyn: He also said that he kind of felt like the fact that Grindr offers the photo archive is sort of a feature that enables more sharing and quicker sharing, because you don't have to go onto your phone, scroll back through your camera roll, figure out where the photo was. You're just like, "Here's my nude bank." Or whatever. Like, it's very fast.
So I guess we're curious about what kind of security features, how do you think about security on that specific feature?
Ashley: Yeah. He specifically mentioned Grindr, in that case. Do you give users any sort of warning, or a "think twice" type of thing?
There's no warning in any of the gay apps when it comes to actually sharing image content with other members. That said, Scruff is unique in its ability to allow you to both share and unshare collections of your private album, so collections of photos.
Scruff is also unique in that we do allow our members to unsend photos in any message if they later change their mind. Now, neither one of these approaches is 100 percent foolproof. Anyone, once they receive content from you, can screenshot it. Even if you were to write the most sophisticated code possible, you could literally take a second smartphone and take a picture of the first smartphone, and thus have exfiltrated that content.
I think this is as much a social issue as it is a technical issue. I think what we are seeing is the social landscape change significantly from when we started more than seven years ago. I think you're seeing, not only gay men sharing personal content, explicit content in some cases, but you're also seeing straight men and women doing the same thing, especially with the rise of apps like Tinder.
That's, I think, also part of the reason why we're seeing lawmakers starting to pay attention to some of the worst case and most problematic consequences of sharing that sort of content. I know lawmakers in California were close to passing a law, I don't recall if they have yet, but they were debating a law on the topic of revenge porn and using explicit content, essentially resharing explicit content without permission for the sake of embarrassing someone else.
I mean, I can guarantee you there will come a point when our lawmakers themselves have revenge porn being leaked out onto the internet. Whether it's 2020 or 2030, there will be an American president one day who shared naughty photos when he or she was young. And so I think there is very much a social change that is happening.
I think making people more aware, not only of what could happen when they share something in private, but more importantly, making people aware of what could happen if they take private content and publish it publicly, knowing that they could get sued, fined, maybe even go to jail. I'm hopeful that that will change things for the better.
Ashley: ODo both parties have to agree to message each other, or can someone send a picture without an agreement on the other end, consent on the other end?
And also, I'm not sure if you've done any research into this, but do you know if people ask often if they're comfortable with photos being sent to them? Consent on the recipient's side, as opposed to the sender's side.
Messaging in Scruff is open, so anyone is free to initiate conversation with anyone else. Anyone's free to send content unsolicited to anyone else. Now, that said, you can block. Certainly, you can block other members, and you can clear conversations. So if you receive content you don't like, you can clear it, block the member, and if necessary, you can report them, if they're violating our community guidelines.
I think that the protocol in the gay community and the reaction by the gay community to receiving content, solicited or unsolicited, I think it's just different than it is in the straight community, so it's not as big of an issue. Typically, the content that you're receiving is of the person who's sending it, so it's not as much of a concern as is, will the person that I sent my content to turn around and reshare it without my permission.
Ashley: Could you explain some of your guidelines that you've developed over the years? Because, I don't know if you developed them from the onset, or incidents happened, or whatever. Just, could you explain some of your community guidelines that you've developed?
Sure. Yeah, we have a set of community guidelines that we have developed over the years. In addition to strong prohibitions about misrepresenting yourself, using fake images, catfishing, ... some of the most important guidelines are centered around your conduct, and the things that you say to other members, and the things that you say in your profile and in your profile text.
A critical feature of an app like Scruff is making sure that our community feels safe and feels welcome. If we have members of our community that are disruptors for some reason, they're uploading very offensive profile imagery, or have profile text that's threatening in some way, or perhaps more often the case, are simply being harassing in chat to other members, that's when our support team will step in and take action, and let people know this is a different kind of space. This is not like Twitter, where it seems pretty much anything goes, right?
This is not a publishing platform, if you will. This is a space where people who, generally speaking, are complete strangers, are coming together to try and meet one another to learn something about each other, maybe share content with one another, hopefully meet up. And as a result, we have a different and, I think, more stringent set of concerns.
That's why we have published a very complete set of community guidelines. Not only that, we enforce those guidelines. I think that's one of the key differentiators to the community that is Scruff compared to any others.
Kaitlyn: I'm assuming that people are sharing photos that aren't nudes, too. Probably just sharing photos of their faces or photos of a dog they saw. I don't know.
Definitely.
Kaitlyn: But is there anything specifically protecting nude photos? Just from like a very basic ...
Ashley: Are you encrypting the files, the actual security.
Kaitlyn: Yeah. It just seems like something people are thinking a lot more about. People are wary of, I mean ... I didn't know the word encryption until I was 19. I don't know.
Sure. So, and I think that you've, or perhaps the creators of that app, have identified a real issue, which is you don't want to have X-rated content, or explicit content, in your camera roll, because a lot of times you're loaning your camera out to someone to take a picture, or you're flipping through it with a friend. That's one of the big reasons why Scruff built its private album functionality. So you could essentially take that content off of your phone and send it and secure it up into the cloud. We ensure that information in transit is definitely encrypted.
I think, that said, it's up to everyone, whatever service they're using, whether it's Scruff, whether it's iCloud, to make sure that they are practicing security, or best practices when it comes to security. Use a strong password. Don't share your password with other people. Take advantage of two-factor authentication, especially for services that offer it.
Ashley: Do you have two-factor on Scruff?
It's something that we are definitely looking into for the future.
Ashley: And then, you mentioned it in transit, do you store these on Scruff's personal servers?  When it's on the server, is it encrypted? What kind of protections do you have on the server?
We take a number of steps to secure our network. Encryption is a multifaceted and multilayered question and process. Yeah, I can say that the technical architecture of Scruff is one that we have had very smart people look into. We've worked with security researchers and security experts to ensure that the data that's on Scruff stays safe and that our members can use Scruff with confidence and know that their information isn't going to be disclosed to unauthorized parties.
Kaitlyn: So, it sounds like to you ... To go back to when you were building the app, it sounds like you always knew that you had to include this feature. What kind of user research did you do around that, and what kind of user research do you do now around that?
It's a great question. I think really when we started we were building Scruff for ourselves and kind of making a lot of ... Really going with intuition and going with our gut. We were learning as we go and evolving with the platform. The iPhone itself was much different. The capabilities of the iPhone were much different back then.
Today, we have a very full featured app. We are taking a renewed ... We've started renewed effort around user research, and doing some deep ethnographies where I think most recently we've interviewed more than 30 users for an hour each, to really build a complete and robust profile of how our members use the app, both here in the United States and abroad. I think the way people use Scruff and the way people use apps itself has evolved from, perhaps, just being about hookups in the beginning, to something bigger and much broader today. We know people on Scruff use it to make friends. They use it to learn about events and meet people who are attending events coming up.
We also know that travel is a huge use case for Scruff, which is why we built a feature called "Scruff Venture" that enables you to connect with other guys who are traveling in the same city, as well as connect with guys in the city who are happy to answer questions about where to go and what to do.
There's been a lot of evolution in how people use gay apps. We're at an inflection point where we really are trying to dig deeper to make the app, or continue to make the app, as useful and as fun as possible.
Ashley: Was video initially, when you first launched Scruff, part of the camera function, or is that newer?
It was not initially part of it, frankly, because the devices themselves weren't really ready to handle it. I think we launched it around 2013. We let you kind of record videos up to around 30 seconds length, and include those in your private album or show them in chat.
Ashley: What was your thought process when it came time to add video? Were you just sort of like, "The phones can handle it now. We wanted to do this before, but just the tech wasn't there." Or was it more of a considered decision that you guys made?
We knew our members wanted to share video and were sharing video via other means, whether it was other services or just kind of sending MMS messages. So we wanted to make it easier for people and we wanted to integrate it directly into the app. Yeah, it was around 2013 when the technology really made that achievable and allowed you to share what, frankly, are much larger files more efficiently. We probably launched video soon after Snapchat had really gotten its start.
Ashley: Is there anything from dating apps now that you're hoping in the future trickles down into the broader culture?
Yes. I think that, especially unique to gay dating apps, we enable our members to be very upfront in expressing their sex preferences. There's sexual preferences, which refer to if you want to have sex with men, you want to have sex with women. And then there are sex preferences. In the gay world, frequently, that's like top, bottom, versatile. The expression of these preferences often invites discomfort, scolding, shame, et cetera. I get it. This is a very sensitive topic. People have different levels of exposure to that, but I'm hopeful that in the future when people express their sex preferences, it will be seen as something that's normal and accepted.
Something that, sure, is a feature or field included on straight apps, too. Other people still see Scruff as a hookup app that's somehow illicit or doing something out of the norm, especially because of features like that. Scruff is not illicit. Wanting to have sex is not something out of the norm.
I'm hopeful that in the future that stigma or that cloud that kind of hangs over apps that cater to the gay community will have dissipated.
Kaitlyn: Yeah. This really gets to the thesis of our show. What you're saying here is that designing this type of app with these sets of features almost tells people, "No, you're not being weird or gross by wanting to express this about yourself. Lots of people want this and that's why this exists." The same thing with an app that would sort your nudes out of your camera roll. That's a company saying, "Lots of people have nudes in their camera roll, enough for us to do this," or whatever. Not that I need like a corporation to tell me that my sexual behavior is okay. But it really does seem like the little bonus implied in these apps that have it.
Ashley: Yeah, it brings it into the popular conscience. It's just like, "Oh, this is something that not just I would want to do, or think about doing, but product designers, people out there who are creating ways to express ourselves are giving us those options and are thinking about it, too." That's really cool.
Kaitlyn: And a lot of the paranoia just comes from the normal fear of being vulnerable. The paranoia about sharing a nude photo is not so different from the general fear of just being naked in front of somebody or whatever.
Ashley: Yeah. Well, Eric, thank you so much for coming on the show. You've really been a great interview and taught us so much.
Thank you. Thanks for having me.



Google’s Files Go — the app that helps Android users free up space, find files quickly, and share files offline with people close by — is out of beta and available globally. Google also announced a suite of new features and apps today that are tailored for India, alongside the launch of Android Oreo Go edition for low-end phones with less than 1GB of RAM.
Similar to Apple’s AirDrop, Files Go lets you transfer files directly between devices (at speeds up to 125Mbps) without it costing mobile data, so long as both devices have the app installed. And by using the company’s mobile vision technology, the app suggests which files users should delete like unused apps, duplicate files, low resolution videos, and memes. Google previously launched a beta version back in November. Files Go is built for Go edition devices, but the app works with any Android devices running Lollipop (5.0) or higher. Google says the average person is saving around 1GB of space by using it.
Another newish app is Google Go, a polished version of Search Lite that does basic Google Search with a simple, tappable interface that’s less than 5MB in size. It’s designed to be easy to use and load quickly, even on patchy connections. The search results in the app are optimized to save up to 40 percent on data and users can easily switch between languages in the results. Google also announced other features, including Google Assistant on JioPhone, a “two-wheeler” mode in Maps that shows shortcuts for motorcycles and scooters that aren’t accessible to cars, and a new customized way to pay bills in its Tez app.
India has more than 400 million internet users, and Google is increasingly looking to Asia as more and more users from developing markets in that region come online. Google notes that though these features are India-first, they aren’t just useful to people in India, but help the company to build better products for everyone.


Rights clearance startup Dubset has partnered with the indie distribution company Merlin, in a move that will grow Dubset’s music library, Billboard reports. This means rights holders represented by Merlin will earn royalties when Dubset’s MixSCAN technology recognizes one of their songs in a DJ mix. It also allows artists to legally clear samples from Merlin’s rights holders through Dubset’s MixBANK.
Dubset claims it will make clearing samples easier for artists, while making sure rights holders receive their fair share of royalties from those samples. After a DJ or producer uploads a track to the MixBANK platform, Dubset clears the track for distribution on streaming services like Spotify and Apple Music. Dubset also splits the royalties between DJs who sample certain tracks and the tracks’ rights holders.
Merlin’s members include popular indie labels like Sub Pop, Warp, Epitaph, and Mad Decent. "Mix culture has always accounted for a significant portion of online consumption, and Merlin's membership represents a wide range of artists at the core of this culture," Merlin CEO Charles Caldas told Billboard.
This past summer, Sony Music became the first major label to agree to a deal with Dubset, allowing its artists to monetize tracks that are used in DJ sets and bootlegs.
As Billboard points out, Sony is still the only major label so far to have made such a deal, but Dubset is apparently working with Universal Music Group and Warner on similar agreements.


Tim Kendall, Pinterest’s president and its most important business executive, is leaving the company at the end of the year.
Kendall, who has been with Pinterest more than five years and oversees all of the company’s advertising products, sales and marketing efforts, is leaving to start his own company in the health care space. The move was announced internally Thursday morning.
Jon Alferness, a former Google executive who joined Pinterest this summer to lead ad products, is taking over Kendall’s responsibilities. Alferness will report to Pinterest CEO Ben Silbermann, and Kendall will stay in touch with the company in an advisory role.
“Tim has made important contributions to Pinterest and we are pleased that he will continue to serve as an advisor to the company,” a spokesperson wrote as part of a statement provided to Recode. “Jon Alferness, Senior Vice President for Ads and Commerce, will now lead the world-class team driving our rapidly growing ads business.”
Kendall’s loss is a big one for Pinterest. Not only did Kendall oversee the company’s entire business operation, but multiple sources familiar with the company expect Pinterest to begin the IPO process sometime in 2018. Kendall would have been a public face for Pinterest’s business during this process, responsible for pitching the company to bankers and investors alongside Silbermann and CFO Todd Morgenfeld.
But that is, in part, why Kendall is leaving now, according to a source familiar with his decision. The closer Pinterest gets to an IPO, and the deeper it gets into conversations with potential partners in that process, the harder it would have been for him to leave.
Plus, Kendall will still benefit financially from an IPO even if he’s not working at the company. He’s been at Pinterest almost six years, which means he’s already vested whatever early stock package he received. Those packages typically vest after four years.
Related
Kendall, who worked at pre-IPO Facebook for more than four years before joining Pinterest, has long had an interest in starting something on his own. He’s a bit of a health nut, especially when it comes to mental health. He takes daily ice baths, for example, for physical rejuvenation but also for the mental clarity he says comes from the shockingly cold water. He also refuses to look at his phone during meetings, and forbids others from doing the same.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, then, his new startup will focus on fighting device addictions, like an obsession with a phone or laptop, and the health concerns that come with them, according to a source.
It’s unclear what Kendall’s departure will mean for Pinterest’s business long term. The company was targeting more than $500 million in revenue this year, up from roughly $300 million in 2016. Investors will want to see that growth continue when the company starts the IPO process.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.


The iPhone X came out almost a month ago, and now one of the most anticipated app updates has finally arrived for the new phone: Google has updated Maps for the iPhone X’s screen.
The sprawling maps do look pretty nice on the new iPhone, although Google may need to rethink its UI a bit for the taller screen. The company took a few extra weeks for what should have been a day one update, but it didn’t use that time to change any of the basic interfaces for the new phone. That means that the search bar is much higher up than on the older version of the app, and the hamburger menu that opens up the left pane for additional options is practically unreachable with one hand now.
Still, it’s better than nothing, I guess. The update is available now from the iOS App Store.


Last year, the company behind the Unity game engine released Adam, a proof-of-concept short film designed to show off its cinematic creation tools. It doesn’t have much of a story: it’s just a robot escaping a prison. But Unity Technologies earned enough of a response to justify developing the story into something bigger, and its representatives turned to Neill Blomkamp’s Oats Studios.
Blomkamp, the writer-director of Elysium and District 9, launched Oats earlier this year as an experiment. He wanted to develop his film ideas without waiting years for the attention and resources of a typical Hollywood studio. Earlier this summer, he released a series of videos — Rakka, Firebase, and Zygote — along with several other shorter films, all of which could potentially be developed into more extensive projects down the road. Meanwhile, Unity unveiled a new version of Cinemachine, software that lets creators direct their own CG short films. Cinemachine is designed to make minute adjustments in colors, lighting, shadows, and camera placement, all while rendering the graphics in real time.
Sylvio Drouin, Unity’s Head of Labs, says work began on the first Adam film four years ago. People in the company anticipated that some elements of the film and gaming industry would merge, he says, and realized it was “time to start working on making the Unity engine and editor compatible with film technology.”
Adam was part of that effort, says Isabelle Riva, head of the company’s Made with Unity division. She says the company’s philosophy is to allow teams to innovate and come up with projects to test out the graphics engine on their own, rather than giving them a top-down mandate. Most teams move on to other challenges, but in Adam’s case, “we thought it was a potential IP, because the response was so strong.” She says the team “thought ‘wow, maybe this story needs to continue.’”
Blomkamp says Unity got in touch with him while he was working on his three Oats tentpole films. Oats’ staff had seen Adam, and were intrigued by the real-time rendering and the world Unity came up with. Unity handed the project over to Blomkamp, who wrote a story bible about Adam and his world. From there, Oats used Cinemachine to produce a pair of short films that build off the original 2016 film: Adam: The Mirror, and Adam: The Prophet.
The original Adam introduces the title character, a prisoner who appears to have been uploaded into a robotic body. He’s awoken and released along with his fellow prisoners. They’re greeted by two mysterious robots who erase their records and lead them off into the desert. Adam: The Mirror picks up right after, following the former prisoners as they’re brought to a safehouse. There, their rescuer tells them that they used to be part of something called The Consortium, which wiped their minds. The reason behind their imprisonment is unknown, but they meet with The Mirror, an individual who can read who they used to be, and describe their histories and crimes. Adam, it turns out, was a political dissident. The film answers some questions left by the first film, but like Oats’ other shorts, it illustrates a broad world that hints at a much larger potential story to come.
Unity recently screened Adam: The Mirror as part of its Unite Austin 2017 Keynote, and Adam: The Prophet will appear at some point this fall.
Chris Harvey, Oats Studios’ VFX Supervisor, explains that the main appeal of Unity’s engine is the real-time rendering, which lets filmmakers adjust on the fly. “Literally, you could put a hat [on Adam], hit play, and watch the film with that,” he says. “
The advantage for Oats is that the software helped streamline the studio’s filmmaking efforts. “The biggest thing for me was the cameras,” Blomkamp says. “If you’re working live-action, you have no choice but to work with what you shot six months earlier.” And if a shot comes across badly, directors are stuck with the results, unless they have the time and resources to go back and reshoot. With Unity, Blomkamp explains, he can make shot adjustments immediately. In this particular short film, he says Oats started the film with harsh overhead lighting, but later changed the position of the sun, which led to softer, more appealing visuals.
But what stands out about this short film is that it’s such a visible jump from technical demo to entertainment property. While the short film is ultimately an experiment, it fits alongside the other films Oats released earlier this summer as snippets of a much larger world. Whatever the future holds for Adam and his fellow escaped prisoners, there are clearly plenty of places Blomkamp can take this story.
Oats Studios released a third installment on November 30th, which shows off a new facet of the world: a cult of human survivors who are seemingly immune to the toxic environment, and are hellbent on destroying the robotic bodies that The Consortium created. Like the rest of the studio’s films, it shows off a small part of a much larger world, one that could be ripe for a larger film down the road.
Update November 30th, 2:50 PM ET:  Article has been updated to add third Adam short.


Warning: Spoilers ahead for the end of Pixar’s new film Coco.
Pixar’s new animated movie Coco follows a boy named Miguel on an accidental journey through the Land of the Dead. He befriends a dead man named Hector who desperately wants his living daughter Coco to remember him. But Coco is very old, and her memory is fading. She spends her scenes sitting still, lost in thought, unable to identify members of her own family.
When Miguel returns to the land of the living, he plays Coco a song her father wrote for her and sang to her often when she was a child. The music revives Coco, and she happily sings along with Miguel. She regains her ability to speak and recognize her daughter, and she speaks cogently to her gathered family about her childhood. Even in a film where skeletons sing and dance in a neon afterlife, it’s a magical scene in two ways: it’s moving and emotional, and it’s hard to accept as realistic. But while the degree of Coco’s recovery is unlikely, experts say Coco actually gets a lot of things right about memory and music.
Coco’s memory loss looks like the result of dementia, a series of brain changes that make it harder to think, remember, communicate, and function. Dementia affects 47 million people worldwide, and although the movie never names it specifically, Alzheimer’s disease is the most common cause for people over age 65. It’s a progressive disease that eats away at memory and self-identity. But there are hints that musical memories are spared, which has led to a debate about how common this is, and how music could be harnessed to help patients with dementia.
“In the healthy brain, music is a very, very vivid way of reanimating memories,” says Jason Warren, a professor of neurology at University College London. “But it’s not clear in dementia when you have a damaged system, whether it would bring back reminiscence and familiarity of the experience, or whether it would actually bring back the details.”
There are hints from case reports and anecdotes that it could — like the story that inspired University of Amsterdam graduate student Joern-Henrik Jacobsen. Like Coco, the grandmother of Jacobsen’s partner had serious dementia and could barely recognize her family, Jacobsen says. But she could remember songs. “If you would just start singing children’s songs with her, she would just start to sing along,” he says.
A few small observational studies back up Jacobsen’s experience. One case report describes a piano player with Alzheimer’s who could finish a song if someone started it for him. But other “name-that-tune”-style studies designed to figure out whether Alzheimer’s patients could still remember music have had mixed results. That may be in part because the disease can make it harder for people to remember a song’s name, even if the melody is familiar.
There’s another challenge, too: there are multiple types of musical memory, and not all studies investigate the same one. There’s the memory of events from your life: a kind of mental time-travel back to important moments, like a specific recital or concert. There are also more general memories that make up a person’s self-knowledge, like when Coco recalls that she used to sing that particular song with her father. And there are also motor memories about how to perform certain tasks, like, in Coco’s case, singing a song. That’s the part of Coco’s memory that Warren thinks is most likely to be restored by music. “The Pixar plot probably has a grain of scientific truth,” he says.
That’s supported by Jacobsen’s brain-imaging research, published in 2015 in the journal Brain. The study’s findings are still early and correlative, but they suggest that brain regions involved in making predictions and planning a sequence of movements are important for music memory. These regions also appear relatively functional in patients with Alzheimer’s, the study says. “That makes a lot of sense if you think about a piece of music as some sort of sequence of movements,” Jacobsen says.
Coco’s recollection that she sang the song with her father is also borderline plausible, Warren says — memories of parents are powerful. But her renewed ability to speak and recognize her family members is less so. “It’s asking an awful lot of any stimulus, including music, to repair degenerating brain tissue,” he says. “It’s up against this enormous progression of disease.”
Renaud La Joie, a postdoctoral scientist at the University of California San Francisco’s Memory and Aging Center, agrees. “They’re not going to recover language,” he says. But until there’s a cure, music therapy does seem to help boost patients’ moods, a recent study of studies called a metanalysis shows. “You can see signs, sometimes faces changing, people smiling,” La Joie says.
Coco’s clear happiness to be singing with her great-grandson is something Coco got very right. But La Joie appreciated one thing about the movie that’s more important than accuracy: it showed a person with dementia approaching the end of her life with dignity and surrounded by love. “I thought it was beautiful the way it was depicted in the movie, that she was being respected by her family,” La Joie says. “This is something we don’t get to see enough in media, or the movies.”


After a computer glitch resulted in thousands of American Airlines flights scheduled without pilots during the busy holiday travel season, the carrier says it’s scrambling to respond.
American says that out of 200,000 flights scheduled during the month of December, “only a few hundred” still currently lack pilot assignments. “That number of open flights continues to decrease thanks to our pilots who are stepping up to the plate and picking up trips to ensure customers are taken care of,” the airlines said in a statement.
Yesterday, it was first revealed that a computer glitch in the system that bids for pilots’ time off based on seniority resulted in thousands of pilots erroneously receiving vacation during the week of Christmas. The glitch threatened to leave an estimated 15,000 flights without pilot assignments, and hundreds of thousands of passengers stuck on the ground during one of the busiest travel weeks of the year.
American says it’s confidant it will find pilots for the remaining flights that still lack someone in the cockpit. “[W]e have more reserve pilots on hand in December than normal months and they provide us with the ability to fly many of the trips that are currently uncovered,” the company stated. “We have not canceled any scheduled flights in December and will continue to work to ensure both our pilots and our customers are cared for.”


SiriusXM Radio has updated its iOS app today, adding CarPlay support, 9to5Mac reports. Now, Apple’s CarPlay users can listen to the major streaming service while on the road, including all channels and on-demand episodes.
Only BMWs have wireless CarPlay support, however, and owners of any other car will need to use wired CarPlay receivers. To run CarPlay, users can retrofit their cars with aftermarket receivers like Alpine’s wireless receiver, the iLX-107. The receiver supports CarPlay through Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and has a 7-inch touchscreen with access to all of Apple’s apps.
SiriusXM Radio users can also swipe to tune channels up and down as part of the update. The app is available for download from the App Store now.


Taylor Swift fans in Australia and the Philippines have tweeted screenshots showing that her new album, Reputation — released on November 10th — is now available to stream on Spotify and Apple Music in their respective countries.
Thus far, if you wanted to hear Swift’s sixth studio album you had to purchase a digital download or trek to Target and pick up a physical copy along with a very odd magazine. On November 7th, Bloomberg reported that the album wouldn’t be available on any streaming services for at least its first week, and that services were still negotiating with Swift’s team.
The full album is currently listed on Spotify in the US, with non-singles greyed out. According to a post on Swift’s Instagram account, the full album will go live at midnight tonight.
Swift’s first five albums were added to Spotify in June after a three-year absence and about a dozen conflicting public statements by Swift about the ethics of streaming services. She didn’t comment on her decision to return to Spotify. However, the move came shortly after Universal Music Group negotiated a contract with the platform that allowed artists to keep new albums off of the free, ad-supported tier, and exclusive to the premium tier for two weeks after their initial release.
Clearly Swift’s terms were different. Assuming Reputation arrives on streaming services tonight, it will be a full three weeks after its initial release. We’ve reached out to Spotify and Apple Music and will update if we hear back.
Update, 6:58PM ET: The story has been updated with a link to Swift’s Instagram post confirming the midnight release time.


Crowdfunding service GoFundMe is dropping the 5 percent fee that it collects from personal campaigns within the US today, adding an optional donation option in its stead. TechCrunch reports that GoFundMe timed this change around the holiday season, and that the company won’t say whether it’s a temporary or permanent decision. Payment processors still take 2.9 percent, but users can keep the rest of their funds. Organized charities and people outside the US will be paying the standard 5 percent, along with processing fees.
A GoFundMe spokesperson told TechCrunch that the company will “be closely monitoring our community’s success with the new structure and evaluating as needed.” It’s following a similar move by Facebook, which announced yesterday that it would drop a 5 percent fee on donations to nonprofits, although it’s still charging for private fundraisers. The change also brings GoFundMe’s model in line with competitor YouCaring, which makes money off tips and financial support from partners.


Lighting is everything in an environment, as important as the furniture you choose to fill your home with. It is, as seasoned selfie-takers say, critical for establishing a #mood. Italian product design company Digital Habits understands this and has created the Color Swing, an ambient color-detecting lamp that can change its own light to match in real time.
The video above demonstrates the lamp shifting its light to match the two colors it’s swinging between: a red plate placed underneath, and a yellow car that slides into frame. The Color Swing works with an IR sensor at the bottom that detects the color of whatever is below it. The technology isn’t new. You can actually build your own color-sensing lamp with this $8 Adafruit RGB color sensor, and follow along with plenty of Arduino tutorials online. But look how cool and sleek its product video is! Think of the selfies!
At the moment, ColorSwing is just a prototype, with “no plans to put it in production. Let's say it is an experiment with no specific practical applications,” the company told The Verge in an email. That’s a bummer, but if you don’t care much for premium Italian design, Amazon sells this hilarious ColorUp “magic color sensing lamp” for $99.


Starting today, Google Assistant can help you find local services, like an electrician or handyman. All you have to do is say “OK Google” to Assistant on your phone or Google Home, followed by a prompt to find the particular service you’re interested in.
In the below example, saying “OK Google, find me a plumber” starts Assistant’s hunt, displaying some follow-up questions to hone in exactly the type of service you need, like repairing a faucet or installing a garbage disposal. From there, Assistant asks if you’d like a call from a service, or if you’d like to browse options in your area.
The feature will be rolling out in the US over the next week. Google says Assistant will recommend businesses that have been pre-screened by Google, HomeAdvisor, and other companies, so there’s some level of comfort knowing you’re hiring workers in good standing. If you live in a city that doesn’t have pre-screened businesses, Assistant will still recommend nearby results.


Scallops, hardly the most complex of creatures, have intricate eyes that work like telescopes, say researchers. They hope this discovery can one day help us make our own telescopes more powerful.
For a paper published today in the journal Science, researchers used a few different microscope techniques to get a detailed view of how the king scallop, or Pecten maximus, is able to see. The scallop has 200 tiny eyes lining its mantle, or outside edge.
Each of these eyes contains tiny mirrors, which is different from how most animals, including humans, see. Our eyes use lenses (the cornea) that focus and bend the light passing through it. The light is focused into the retina, or the light-sensitive tissue layer at the back of the eye.
But scallop eyes, and powerful telescopes, use mirrors instead. Mirrors don't focus light but instead reflect it, which has a few advantages. Lenses can only deal with certain wavelengths of light, but mirrors can gather more types, and thus more information. Lenses are more likely to have engineering and design problems, which will make images unclear. And, at least for telescopes, it’s easier and cheaper to make a large mirror than a large lens, because lenses can be heavy and expensive.
We knew about the mirrors before, but we didn’t know just how they were put together. The scallop’s tiny mirrors are made from 20 to 30 layers of crystals, and the layers themselves are made of closely tiled crystal plates, like a mosaic. Each mirror is carefully calibrated to reflect the right wavelength. Together, it makes the picture clearer, and with its 200 eyes and a double-layered retina, scallop can see peripheral and central pictures at the same time.
The scallop is far from the only creature that has something to teach us about design. Lobster eyes, for example, can help us design better ways to see in low light. So don’t write off the scallop on your plate. Its eyes are mini versions of some of the most powerful telescopes.


When paleontologist Alexander Kellner first saw the 35-square-foot block of sandstone filled with pterosaur fossils, he couldn’t believe his eyes. “I was just speechless,” he says. That was in 2015, at the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology in Beijing. Now, two years later, that 120-million-year-old block of fossilized sand has yielded 215 pterosaur eggs, 16 of which still have embryos inside. The unprecedented discovery can help us understand how pterosaurs laid their eggs, how those eggs developed, and even how pterosaur parents cared for their young.
The batch of eggs, described in a study published today in Science, confirms what scientists had suspected: pterosaurs laid soft-shell eggs like today’s lizards, rather than hard-shell eggs like birds. It also shows that flocks of pterosaurs may have nested together, laying their eggs relatively close to each other and returning to nest in the same spots over time. Based on the development of certain embryos, the researchers also think that newborn pterosaurs couldn’t fly, which suggests that parents had to take care of them. But several experts disagree about the stage the embryos were in, which has implications about how pterosaurs behaved.
“There’s a real danger that you can over-interpret the evidence,” says Charles Deeming, principal lecturer at the University of Lincoln, who’s researched pterosaur eggs and was not involved in this study.
But Deeming and others agree that the block of fossilized eggs is an amazing find that will deepen our understanding of some of the most peculiar animals to ever inhabit our planet. “I’ve been 35 years in paleontology and seen a lot of great fossils. But this is certainly one of the three or five most interesting and probably most important specimens I’ve ever seen,” says pterosaur expert David Unwin, who was not involved in the research. “It’s absolutely astounding.”
Pterosaurs were flying reptiles that lived — and went extinct — alongside dinosaurs. There were several pterosaur species of various sizes: some were as big as crop dusters, while others were as small as sparrows. The pterosaur fossils in question, found in northwestern China, belong to a species called Hamipterus tianshanensis: they had a wingspan of up to 11 feet, head crests, and long teeth to catch fish. Because pterosaurs had thin bones, optimized for flight, not many fossils remain. Finding eggs is even harder: only a handful of pterosaur eggs have been discovered — and only three of these eggs contain fossilized embryos, Unwin says.
That’s why that 35-square-foot block of sandstone filled with relatively well-preserved eggs and embryos, as well as pterosaur bones, is so extraordinary. “This was really an amazing find,” Kellner tells The Verge. “I never thought of finding something like that.” The cluster of eggs and bones formed when powerful storms swept through the area, flooding rivers. The flood snatched the eggs from their nests, and carried them to a spot where they piled up, eventually fossilizing, Kellner says. The sandstone block has eight layers, each corresponding to a different storm event that hit the area through time. Each layer has pterosaur bones, and four also have eggs.
Kellner and his colleagues scanned the eggs and found that the shells were soft and parchment-like — similar to the eggs of today’s lizards and some turtles. These animals bury their eggs instead of incubating them, like birds do, which suggests that pterosaurs likely did the same. Scientists think that each female pterosaur probably laid only two eggs at a time, so Kellner says that all the eggs in the sandstone block were probably laid by tens of pterosaurs at a spot nearby. If that’s true, it means pterosaurs laid their eggs together, similar to penguins. Because the sandstone block also has several layers containing eggs, that suggests that the flying reptiles returned to the same spot to lay their eggs over time, Kellner says.
Even more surprising clues about pterosaurs come from the embryos found inside the eggs: some of these embryos were in the late stage of development, the researchers say. In these embryos, one wing bone called the humerus wasn’t completely formed, while a leg bone called the femur was. That suggests that newborn pterosaurs could walk around but couldn’t fly, Kellner says. And if that’s case, their parents probably had to look after them.
Some researchers disagree with this interpretation, saying that the embryos were likely weeks or even months from hatching. Unwin says that three other late-stage embryos found elsewhere in China and Argentina had well-developed skeletons, including well-formed wing bones. “They look like hatchlings except they’re inside an egg,” Unwin says. “In terms of proportions, they look very much like they’re ready to go.” Instead, the embryos described in today’s study were likely halfway through development, Unwin says, meaning that they still had time to form their wings. If that’s the case, then the interpretation that young pterosaurs couldn’t fly and parents had to take care of them doesn’t stand. But even if hatchlings couldn’t fly, that doesn’t necessarily mean that the parents had to look after them, Unwin says. Modern reptiles that bury their eggs, like turtles, generally don’t come back to their eggs when they hatch. The hatchlings just take care of themselves.
“It is important to be cautious and not to infer too many aspects of the life history of Hamipterus from what remains a limited data set,” Deeming writes in an article published alongside the Science paper.
The only way to answer some of these questions is to find even more eggs and embryos — and that may soon happen. Kellner says he and his colleagues in China intend to go back to the site where the eggs were excavated, and look for more fossils. “The exciting thing is that there are more discoveries to come,” Unwin says. “We have a fantastic find, but we have the opportunity to build on that and build a more complete and a more complex picture.”
Ultimately, revealing how pterosaurs lived, behaved, and reproduced adds to our understanding of what life is capable of on our planet — at least, in the past. “Pterosaurs are completely unlike any living animal, so they show us a form of life or a way of life that doesn’t exist anymore,” Unwin says. “We’re fascinated by the idea of aliens from another world but in a sense, pterosaurs and dinosaurs are aliens of this world.”



Remember Vine? The six-second video social media app lived a roller-coaster life, going from small startup to Twitter-owned internet juggernaut to shut down in what felt like the blink of an eye. But there is some good news in the post-Vine darkness we’ve all been living in since Twitter shuttered the service last fall: Vine co-founder Dom Hofmann has announced (on Twitter, of all places) that he’s working on “a follow-up to Vine.”
There’s virtually no information about what Hofmann has in mind. We don’t even know if he means another short-form video app similar to the original Vine, or just some other project that will look to build on the foundation Vine started. Hofmann did say in a follow-up tweet that he’s funding the new project himself outside of his current company (a different mysterious project called Interspace). Hofmann declined to comment about the Vine follow-up beyond his tweets.
i'm going to work on a follow-up to vine. i've been feeling it myself for some time and have seen a lot of tweets, dms, etc.
But if you’ve been sitting with a pang in your heart every time you see the sad, colorless Vine Camera icon on your home screen, at least now there’s some hope that maybe one day in the future, we’ll all be back at it again at Krispy Kreme.


Facebook announced a wider availability of its new Customer Chat service today, which lets businesses talk with users both on their own websites and within Facebook Messenger. Customer Chat is essentially a website plugin that brings the Facebook Messenger experience to any retailer’s website, which lets the customer support representatives then converse with customers as if they were chatting with a friend on Facebook.
Customer Chat saves conversation histories, so a user can go from talking with a rep on a retailer’s website to conversing with them within the Messenger mobile app without restarting a new thread. The service first became available earlier this month when the Facebook Messenger team launched it in private beta. The company now says it’s open to any business as part of an expanded public beta, and its developer page dedicated to Customer Chat details how to install the software development kit.
Of course, Customer Chat’s success hinges on users, who may not be keen on using Facebook Messenger for customer support needs when email and help lines have become the standard method for dealing with a product or order issue. Facebook has long been banking on businesses (and by extension chatbots) as the natural evolution for its chat product, which in September surpassed 1.3 billion monthly active users.
The general idea is that if Facebook Messenger can absorb even more of the communication that typically takes place over the phone or with email, the company will continue to tighten its grip on users and prevent rival communication channels from eating away at its dominance. To that end, Facebook has extended many of the same business-friendly features of Messenger to WhatsApp, the other massively popular chat product it owns.
Whether letting businesses slide into your Messenger chats in the app and on Facebook.com will have a large impact on that goal is a bit up in the air. But in the eyes of Facebook leadership, it certainly can’t hurt to make it easier to use Facebook for anything and everything you want to do — whether that’s sending money, making video calls, or badgering a customer support rep for a refund.


Google is offering a new way for Raspberry Pi tinkerers to use its AI tools. It just announced the AIY Vision Kit, which includes a new circuit board and computer vision software that buyers can pair with their own Raspberry Pi computer and camera. (There’s also a cute cardboard box included, along with some supplementary accessories.) The kit costs $44.99 and will ship through Micro Center on December 31st.
The AIY Vision Kit’s software includes three neural network models: one that recognizes a thousand common objects; one that recognizes faces and expressions; and a “a person, cat and dog detector.” Users can train their own models with Google’s TensorFlow machine learning software.
Google touts this as a cheap and simple computer vision system that doesn’t require access to cloud processing, because of the extra processing unit. It suggests several simple uses, including setting up cameras to detect your dog or car. But it also offers more interesting possibilities, like identifying plants and animals with the kit.
This is the second project released through Google’s AIY program, a partnership with Raspberry Pi’s creators. The first was called Voice HAT, and it added microphones that let users issue Google Assistant commands to Raspberry Pi-controlled devices.


Amazon’s business subsidiary, Amazon Web Services, has announced a new initiative to get companies using Alexa in the office. The company imagines that the virtual assistant will help employees launch conference calls, organize room bookings, and even wrangle with their expenses.
With the new scheme, Alexa for Business, companies will be given the tools to manage a fleet of Alexa-enabled devices. Admins will be able to enroll users, enable and disable skills, and connect Alexa to their conferencing equipment. They’ll also be able to build their own apps for the assistant, with Amazon suggesting functions like helping with directions around the office, reporting problems with equipment, and ordering new supplies. Users will also be able to access their company’s apps from home devices, checking what’s on their office calendar and remotely joining meetings.
The office is a big new frontier for Alexa, which has proved to be a surprise hit for Amazon. The device launched in late 2014, and kickstarted a trend for voice-activated devices in the home — a category that now includes Google Home and Apple’s forthcoming HomePod. Amazon has quickly capitalized on its lead in the industry, launching a slew of new Alexa devices, including screen-equipped versions for the kitchen and bedroom. The company doesn’t release sales figures for Echo devices, but Morgan Stanley estimates that the company has sold some 11 million units.
In a talk announcing Alexa for Business at Amazon’s re:Invent conference today, the company’s CTO Werner Vogels described voice interfaces as the future of computer interfaces. “It’s a natural way of interacting with your systems,” said Vogels. “You ask your environment to give you the right answer.” He described voice as “the first disruption” driven by the contemporary boom in artificial intelligence, particular deep learning.
As well as letting companies build their own tools for Alexa, Amazon is working with other popular enterprise firms, including Concur Solutions, SAP SuccessFactors, and Salesforce. It’s also partnering with office space startup WeWork, which is experimenting with installing Echo devices in its workspaces. If other companies follow suit, it would be a whole new domain for Alexa — and Amazon — to master.


Google is considering bringing Nest back into its family after the two became separate brands in 2015 under holding company Alphabet, people familiar with the matter told the Wall Street Journal. Nest could potentially rejoin Google’s hardware team and the two could make more smart home products that rival Amazon’s lineup of Alexa devices.
The two are already pretty integrated — Google Home users can control Nest thermostats and pull up Nest Cam streams through voice command, the result of a few dozen Nest developers being brought on the Google team last year. Now these rumored talks could indicate a deeper partnership in the future that would bring all of Nest’s 1,000 employees onto Google’s team.
Google initially bought Nest in 2014 for $3.2 billion, but the two went their separate ways a year later as Alphabet split up some of its units as individual brands. Both experienced some overlap, however, as marketing teams on both brands had to call the same retailers to stock their goods, a former Nest manager told the WSJ.
Google declined to comment.


FCC chairman Ajit Pai issued a statement today condemning a death threat allegedly directed to a congressman over net neutrality policy.
Earlier this week, federal prosecutors issued a criminal complaint against Syracuse man Patrick D. Angelo, who was arrested yesterday. The complaint alleges that Angelo left a voicemail last month threatening Rep. John Katko (R-NY) in which he said, “if you don’t support net neutrality, I will find you and your family and I will kill… you… all. Do you understand? I will literally find all… of… you and your progeny and just wipe you from the face of the earth.”
In the statement released today, Pai said he “condemn[ed] in the strongest possible terms any attempts to intimidate government officials with violent threats, and in particular, efforts to target their families.”
The FCC is scheduled to vote next month on its controversial plan to roll back net neutrality protections. Ahead of the vote, which is expected to pass through the commission on party lines, Pai and others have been met with protests. This week, cardboard signs appeared with the names of Pai’s children outside his home, questioning what kind of world they would “inherit.” Pai said in a Fox & Friends interview that protestors had crossed a line with the signs and “should stop harassing us at our homes.”
In statements this week, Pai has lamented the heated discourse around net neutrality policy, saying in remarks “that vitriol in social media seems to suggest that America is more divided than ever.” But he has also used his platform to criticize opponents of his deregulatory effort: in a speech this week, he derided the “out-sized influence” of celebrities and a “cloak” of consumer advocacy he says is used by tech companies to influence the debate.




Apple is designing its own power management chips for iPhones, and plans to stop relying on its current supplier Dialog Semiconductor, anonymous sources told Nikkei Asian Review.
One anonymous source said: “Based on Apple's current plan, they are set to replace around half of its power management chips to go into iPhones by itself, starting next year.” Another person said the chips might not be ready until 2019.
Power management chips handle tasks like iPhone charging, battery life management, and energy consumption. Apple’s new chips will be the “most advanced” and have better power monitoring capabilities than rivals, the sources said, which will presumably improve battery life. The chips are going to continue to be manufactured by Taiwan Semiconductor, the world’s biggest chipmaker, which also makes Dialog’s chips.
Shares for Dialog Semiconductor are down 17 percent following the news. The company designed chips for iPhones, iPads, and Apple Watches, and relied on Apple for 74 percent of its revenue last year.
Apple has been cutting out suppliers over the past year and producing more and more parts in house, like designing its own graphics chips and severing ties with its former graphics partner Imagination Technologies back in April. (Imagination then sued Apple for taking what it claimed to be proprietary graphics chip designs.) It’s a trend that’s cutting costs for Apple and streamlining the process, while being detrimental to old business partners.
We’ve reached out to Apple for comment.
Update November 30th 5:36PM ET: This article’s headline was updated to clarify that Apple is designing chips, not making them.


Google is considering bringing Nest back into its family after the two became separate brands in 2015 under holding company Alphabet, people familiar with the matter told the Wall Street Journal. Nest could potentially rejoin Google’s hardware team and the two could make more smart home products that rival Amazon’s lineup of Alexa devices.
The two are already pretty integrated — Google Home users can control Nest thermostats and pull up Nest Cam streams through voice command, the result of a few dozen Nest developers being brought on the Google team last year. Now these rumored talks could indicate a deeper partnership in the future that would bring all of Nest’s 1,000 employees onto Google’s team.
Google initially bought Nest in 2014 for $3.2 billion, but the two went their separate ways a year later as Alphabet split up some of its units as individual brands. Both experienced some overlap, however, as marketing teams on both brands had to call the same retailers to stock their goods, a former Nest manager told the WSJ.
Google declined to comment.


FCC chairman Ajit Pai issued a statement today condemning a death threat allegedly directed to a congressman over net neutrality policy.
Earlier this week, federal prosecutors issued a criminal complaint against Syracuse man Patrick D. Angelo, who was arrested yesterday. The complaint alleges that Angelo left a voicemail last month threatening Rep. John Katko (R-NY) in which he said, “if you don’t support net neutrality, I will find you and your family and I will kill… you… all. Do you understand? I will literally find all… of… you and your progeny and just wipe you from the face of the earth.”
In the statement released today, Pai said he “condemn[ed] in the strongest possible terms any attempts to intimidate government officials with violent threats, and in particular, efforts to target their families.”
The FCC is scheduled to vote next month on its controversial plan to roll back net neutrality protections. Ahead of the vote, which is expected to pass through the commission on party lines, Pai and others have been met with protests. This week, cardboard signs appeared with the names of Pai’s children outside his home, questioning what kind of world they would “inherit.” Pai said in a Fox & Friends interview that protestors had crossed a line with the signs and “should stop harassing us at our homes.”
In statements this week, Pai has lamented the heated discourse around net neutrality policy, saying in remarks “that vitriol in social media seems to suggest that America is more divided than ever.” But he has also used his platform to criticize opponents of his deregulatory effort: in a speech this week, he derided the “out-sized influence” of celebrities and a “cloak” of consumer advocacy he says is used by tech companies to influence the debate.




Apple is designing its own power management chips for iPhones, and plans to stop relying on its current supplier Dialog Semiconductor, anonymous sources told Nikkei Asian Review.
One anonymous source said: “Based on Apple's current plan, they are set to replace around half of its power management chips to go into iPhones by itself, starting next year.” Another person said the chips might not be ready until 2019.
Power management chips handle tasks like iPhone charging, battery life management, and energy consumption. Apple’s new chips will be the “most advanced” and have better power monitoring capabilities than rivals, the sources said, which will presumably improve battery life. The chips are going to continue to be manufactured by Taiwan Semiconductor, the world’s biggest chipmaker, which also makes Dialog’s chips.
Shares for Dialog Semiconductor are down 17 percent following the news. The company designed chips for iPhones, iPads, and Apple Watches, and relied on Apple for 74 percent of its revenue last year.
Apple has been cutting out suppliers over the past year and producing more and more parts in house, like designing its own graphics chips and severing ties with its former graphics partner Imagination Technologies back in April. (Imagination then sued Apple for taking what it claimed to be proprietary graphics chip designs.) It’s a trend that’s cutting costs for Apple and streamlining the process, while being detrimental to old business partners.
We’ve reached out to Apple for comment.
Update November 30th 5:36PM ET: This article’s headline was updated to clarify that Apple is designing chips, not making them.


Mr. Robot is back, and the C Y B E R is back, too. The show takes a special interest in showing off the details that usually get glossed over, often drawing on real hacks and real cybersecurity problems. So after every episode, I’ll be breaking down who got hacked, how, and with what. It turns out, there’s a lot more to each one than you can see on-screen.
This episode was a bit of a breather after last week’s doomfest. Elliot goes on a semi-suicidal trip to the ocean, meets a little kid, watches Back to the Future, and recovers his will to live. Along the way, we get a peek at the steady creep of martial law and general chaos on the Robot universe, with a general curfew and Children of Men-style checkpoints in the background. It’s getting bad out there!
But as I’ve said before, this isn’t the Thoughtful Engagement With Islamic Culture Report; it’s the Hack Report. So for the purposes of this column, I’m going to take a look at what Elliot does in the very beginning of the episode: closing his files on Trenton and Mobley before microwaving his gear in a general reset. We’ve seen him do this before, particularly in season 1 as he was preparing for his big move against Evil Corp, but it’s worth walking through exactly what’s happening here and why it’s such an effective way to wipe his system clean.
Like any successful backup system, there are two steps: copying the data you need to a save place, and then flaming it out everywhere else.
First, we see Elliot copying all his data on Trenton and Mobley onto dummy CDs. We even get their real names: Shama Biswas and Sunil Markesh. Shama / Trenton gets Bruce Springsteen’s Magic, while Sunil / Mobley gets a CD of DJ Mobley himself.
We’ve seen Elliot do this routine before, but it’s a really clever way to disguise data, in part because no one searching his apartment is going to think of listening to his CDs. Even if they did, what would they hear? Compressed audio doesn’t take up that much of a CD’s storage capacity, so it’s easy to make a mixed mode CD that would actually play the Springsteen album (or a compressed version of it) and still store hundreds of Mb of data in the background. It’s hard to tell from this episode if that’s exactly what Elliot’s doing this time around, but it’s one of the reasons the whole setup is so clever.
The actual albums seem to be a bit of an Easter egg. Is Speaking in Tongues a comment on Elliot’s relationship with Krista? You can dig through more examples in the fan communities. There’s even a Spotify playlist, although it’s missing some of the more recent examples.
Now, it’s time to smash things up. As soon as he’s done with the backups, we see Elliot crack open his computer case, pull a bunch of things out, and methodically destroy them. Specifically, he’s pulling out all the computer’s memory, both the platter hard drive and the flash RAM that sits on the computer’s motherboard. In a couple seconds of screen time, Elliot drills a hole in the computer’s main hard drive, yanks the RAM chips out with a plier, and microwaves them, ensuring no one can ever extract any data again.
As with many things, Elliot is taking this to extremes, but if you’re in charge of making sure a piece of data is absolutely positively erased, this is pretty much what you do. Just deleting files on your computer does almost nothing. It gives the computer permission to overwrite the bits of data, but it doesn’t actually overwrite them, so forensic analysts can usually still reconstruct them when they look at your computer piece by piece. There are more serious ways to erase the data, like formatting the drive or running a zero-fill program, but it’s hard to be sure they’ve worked. The only perfect method is physically destroying the component that houses them, which is exactly what Elliot does.
Drilling is a classic way to destroy a platter-based hard drive, although folks often misunderstand why. Hard drives basically work like vinyl records: there’s a disk inside that spins around and a reader arm that reads it as it passes by. Putting a hole in that platter certainly removes any data that was on that particular circle, but the bigger issue is breaking the enclosure and messing with the platter itself. Drilling through produces a lot of heat and friction in the delicate enclosure. If the disc is warped at all, it won’t spin, which makes it extremely hard to pull any data.
Flash memory is a little trickier, but not much. Solid-state drives are notoriously difficult to erase, in part because they have a limited number of overwrite cycles. But at its heart, the flash chip is just a series of transistor gates, with the state of those gates determining what’s a 1 and what’s a 0. But the radiation from a microwave destroys those gates directly, particularly once the whole thing catches fire. This won’t necessarily work on USB drives or SD cards because the metal enclosure ends up acting as a Faraday Cage — but Elliot is frying raw chips, so there’s nothing to get in the way.
————
That’s all the hacks we’ve got this week! But tune in to the show next week, when we’ll be talking with Grace Gummer, and hopefully have some more hacks to dig into. If there’s anything else you want to see in next week’s report, you can catch us on Reddit or on Twitter at the hashtag #RobotAfterShow. See you next week.
Disclosure: NBC Universal, owner of USA Network, is an investor in Vox Media, The Verge’s parent company. Additionally, we are an independent editorial partner in the Mr. Robot Digital After Show hosted by The Verge.


Apple has launched a new app today that will allow the company to gather irregular heart rhythm data from the Apple Watch’s heart rate sensor. Called the Apple Heart Study app, it will detect irregularities and send notifications to users who may be suffering from atrial fibrillation (AFib).
Apple first mentioned its Heart Study initiative back in September when it launched watchOS 4. The company is partnering with Stanford University on the project. The company plans on using heart rate data to better inform patients, doctors, and researchers of cases of heart irregularity.
“Working alongside the medical community, not only can we inform people of certain health conditions, we also hope to advance discoveries in heart science,” said Jeff Williams, Apple’s chief operating officer, in a statement. The app uses the Apple Watch’s existing technology to measure heart rate through green LED lights flashing hundreds of times per second and photodiodes that detect the amount of blood flowing through the wrists.
Users who participate in the survey will be notified on their iPhone and Watch if an irregular heartbeat is detected and provided a free consultation with a study doctor and an electrocardiogram (EKG) patch for further observation. The app is currently available in the US App Store, and users who want to participate in the study have to be 22 years or older with an Apple Watch Series 1 or later.
Earlier today, the FDA cleared the first medical device accessory for the Apple Watch — AliveCor's KardiaBand electrocardiogram (EKG) reader, a sensor that pairs with an app and can detect abnormal heart rhythm and AFib, too. There are already plenty of apps that flag things like abnormal spikes in heart rates, stress levels, and also analyze the data that’s pushed into Apple’s Health app. Earlier this year, a study showed that the Apple Watch can detect heart irregularity with 97 percent accuracy, which isn’t quite good enough for an official diagnosis, but is still useful as a screening tool.



It’s been a busy year for Nintendo, with the release of the Switch, multiple blockbuster games, and even rumors of an animated movie. Now comes perhaps the biggest surprise of all: a breakfast cereal that doubles as an Amiibo figure.
Called simply Super Mario Cereal, it looks like a fairly standard sugary cereal, complete with marshmallows in the shape of iconic Super Mario items like a 1-up mushroom and newcomer Cappy. But the more interesting aspect is the box itself. It works as an Amiibo, Nintendo’s line of NFC-enabled toys that can interact with games by tapping them on a console. According to Nintendo, tapping the box on your Switch while playing Super Mario Odyssey will unlock extra coins or hearts in the game.
They’re not the most exciting power-ups, and I’m not sure what’s stopping people from bringing their Switch to a grocery store and unlocking lots of coins, but it’s a fun add-on nonetheless. Nintendo says the cereal will start shipping in the US on December 11th.


A new report predicts that by 2030, as many as 800 million jobs could be lost worldwide to automation. The study, compiled by the McKinsey Global Institute, says that advances in AI and robotics will have a drastic effect on everyday working lives, comparable to the shift away from agricultural societies during the Industrial Revolution. In the US alone, between 39 and 73 million jobs stand to be automated — making up around a third of the total workforce.
But, the report also states that as in the past, technology will not be a purely destructive force. New jobs will be created; existing roles will be redefined; and workers will have the opportunity to switch careers. The challenge particular to this generation, say the authors, is managing the transition. Income inequality is likely to grow, possibly leading to political instability; and the individuals who need to retrain for new careers won’t be the young, but middle-aged professionals.
The changes won’t hit everyone equally. Only 5 percent of current occupations stand to be completely automated if today’s cutting-edge technology is widely adopted, while in 60 percent of jobs, one-third of activities will be automated. Quoting a US government commission from the 1960s on the same topic, McKinsey’s researchers summarize: “technology destroys jobs, but not work.” As an example, it examines the effect of the personal computer in the US since 1980, finding that the invention led to the creation of 18.5 million new jobs, even when accounting for jobs lost. (The same might not be true of industrial robots, which earlier reports suggest destroy jobs overall.)
As with previous studies on this topic, there’s much to be said for taking a skeptical view. Economic forecasting is not an exact science, and McKinsey’s researchers are keen to stress that their predictions are just that. The figure of 800 million jobs lost worldwide, for example, is only the most extreme of possible scenarios, and the report also suggests a middle estimate of 400 million jobs.
Nevertheless, this study is one of the most comprehensive in recent years, modeling changes in more than 800 occupations, and taking in some 46 countries, accounting for 90 percent of world GDP. Six nations are also analyzed in detail — the US, China, Germany, Japan, India, and Mexico — with these countries representing a range of economic situations and differently organized workforces.
The report stresses that the effects of automation on work will differ from country to country. Developed economies like the US and Germany are likely to be hit hardest by the coming changes, as higher average wages incentivizes automation. In America, the report predicts that employment in industries like health care will increase, as society copes with an aging population; while rote jobs that involve physical labor (machinist, cooks) or data processing (payroll clerks, data entry) are most at risk of automation.
In developed economies like the US, automation is also likely to lead to increased inequality. High-paying creative and cognitive jobs will be at a premium, while the demand for middle and low-skill occupations will decline. The result, says McKinsey, will be a “two-tiered labor market.” Previous reports have come to the same conclusion, finding that individuals in higher income brackets are more able to adapt to a changing job market, and that social mobility will suffer as a result, as traditional “stepping-stone jobs” (like a clerk working in a law firm) are eliminated.
It’s not all doom and gloom, though, as McKinsey states that the worst effects of this transition can be mitigated if governments take an active role. Michael Chui, the lead author of the report, compared the level of action needed to the Marshall Plan — an American initiative that pumped some $140 billion into Western Europe after WWII, helping countries rebuild and industrialize.
The report uses America’s transition out of agriculture as a historical example, pointing out that the decrease in farming jobs in the US was accompanied by major spending on secondary education and new laws enforcing compulsory attendance. In 1910, only 18 percent of children aged 14 to 17 went to high school; by 1940 this figure was 73 percent. The resulting increase in educated workers helped create a booming manufacturing industry and buoyant middle-class. A similar push is needed today, says McKinsey, yet over the last few decades, spending on labor force training and support has fallen. The conclusion of the report seems to be: automation doesn’t have to be a disaster, but only if politics keeps pace.


Today, Amazon and its partners updated multiple apps in the US, including Bravo, Hulu, and NBC, so that users can control playback with voice commands. You can use the Alexa Voice Remote, an Echo device, or the Fire TV remote app to search, play, pause, rewind, or fast-forward through content from these providers. You can also change the channel. CBS All Access, Showtime, and PlayStation Vue also recently received this functionality.
So, for example, you could say, "Alexa, watch The Handmaid's Tale," or "Alexa, play The Real Housewives of Atlanta." Other less-specific program commands include, "Alexa, fast-forward five minutes," or "Alexa, play from the beginning." Clearly Amazon is working toward a voice-controlled future built around Alexa. I can't wait for a future where we never have to get off the couch or spend extra time hunting around for what we want to watch.


Drake went to a Toronto Raptors game last night at the Air Canada Centre, wore a brown hoodie, and drank a can of pink grapefruit Perrier. I absolutely can’t think of anything less interesting. Can you?
Ah, but Drake knows how to make up for boring circumstances by acting like a total spaz for no reason. Thank goodness. The newest Drake meme is a short video, posted to Instagram by the Raptors’ social media manager, of Drake pouring his Perrier into a cup. Something about the process is distressing to him, and he panics, then calms himself down a little bit, then panics again, then freaks way out, then puts the can down on the floor, then half-grins, then settles into his resting facial expression, which is “sheepish.” I’m guessing he picks the can up and throws it in a trash can on his way out, so his panic is not about being caught littering. In fact, it doesn’t matter what the panic is about. All that matters is that this clip is so nice and funny and low-stakes and you can watch it over and over and repost it and caption it with whatever you want. Please don’t choose anything topical!
When you get called to the principals office... @champagnepapi | #WeTheNorth
A post shared by Toronto Raptors (@raptors) on Nov 29, 2017 at 5:01pm PST
“Why does it feel like it’s been 37 years since we had a Drake meme?” my co-worker Lizzie Plaugic asked in Slack. “Feels like a different life,” she sighed (I imagine).
She’s right. Without looking it up, when do you think the “Hotline Bling” video and its 1 million spinoff tweets, parody videos, and blog posts came out? When did Drake learn Photoshop specifically so he could put a tiny Drake on Rihanna’s shoulder and delight me? When did you first see this GIF?
I guessed “1974.” But in May 2016, on this website, I wrote and published the headline “Drake's SNL monologue about not wanting to be a meme is the all-time biggest lie in American history,” which, oh wow. Oh my goodness. At the time, I could not possibly have imagined all that was to come, but still, I’m embarrassed.
It’s been so long, and the internet has been so bad. We used to argue about Drake sometimes — about whether his latest album was kind of lazy or “called a playlist for no reason” — and now I can’t believe we were so ungrateful. All anybody wants in this life is to look at a warm, familiar face doing something stupid and laugh a little and not feel bad inside. Because he is incredibly famous, Drake can create that experience that for millions of people at the same time, at little cost. Thank you, Drake.
when a chipotle employee catches me putting sprite in my water cup pic.twitter.com/WtATDfVR8o
As I was writing this post, Kelly Ripa informed me and my cat Ghost, “Thursday is the new Friday!” So, in that case, I feel comfortable suggesting that you take about 45 minutes off from whatever you’re trying to accomplish this morning and revisit your favorite Drake memes from a previous life.
Related


Google Home devices can now process and complete two commands at once. As first reported by CNET and independently confirmed by The Verge, Google Home users can ask their device to do multiple things. So, for example, you could say, "Hey, Google, turn on the TV, and what's the weather?" Your TV would turn on, and Google will tell you the weather, too.
You can mix and match these commands by asking for traffic, controlling any of your connected gadgets, or telling the device to play music. These commands don't have to be predefined in the Google Home app as a specific routine. You also cannot ask for three things. The device will tell you it can't handle all three and then seems to pick one command at random to execute.
Amazon rolled out a similar feature for Alexa-equipped devices earlier this month called "routines." Users can define a trigger phrase, like, "Alexa, good morning," and the device will carry out a series of commands. These controls are set up ahead of time through the Alexa companion app, though. Google also plans to roll out routines, but these double commands make for a quick, on-the-fly solution.


Developer FiftyThree is best known for Paper, one of the most iconic drawing apps for the iPad since it was released in 2012. But earlier this year, the company quietly released its second major application: Paste, an incredibly nice-looking slideshow app for the web with deep integration into Slack that looked to redesign the humble slide deck for a modern, team-based, collaborative work environment. And now, Paste is finally making its way to the platform people know FiftyThree for best: the iPad and iPhone.
In many ways, Paste has always felt like it should have an iOS app. The entire app is built around a simple UI for editing slides meant to let users focus on content instead of fiddling with fonts and layouts, with a robust drag-and-drop function for automatically generating content out of images, links, and videos. Add in the Facebook-like reactions and commenting functions that are already a major part of the app, and a mobile version is a natural fit. You can leave those comments directly on a slide in Paste and have them pop up in a Slack room, as well as assign team members from Slack to work on specific slides.
I’ve been able to try out the mobile versions of Paste, and while the iPhone version is probably still best-suited for just viewing slides and leaving feedback for other team members, the iPad version — thanks to iOS 11’s drag-and-drop features — is just as good as the desktop app.
Paste is free to try for a limited time, and costs $8 per month per user, so it’s still likely going to remain an enterprise-focused service for now. And while Paste does look very nice, if you’re team isn’t running everything in Slack, it’s somewhat harder to justify the cost for what is ultimately a very minimalist version of Google Slides.
It would also be nice to see an Android version of Paste somewhere in the future, too. FiftyThree is primarily an iOS developer, but unless you’re working at Apple (in which case, you’re probably using Keynote anyway), chances are you’ve got some Android users on your team that might want access to slide decks, too.
Along with Paste making its way to iOS, FiftyThree is also releasing a massive overhaul of the original Paper app. The new Paper 4 has been completely rebuilt using Apple’s SceneKit framework for better performance, and a new design that harkens back to the original version of the application, but with a optional grid view that makes it easier to see your individual notebooks at a glance.
FiftyThree is also changing the monetization scheme for Paper: the app is free to download, but some features are only available with an optional $5.99 / six months Paper Pro subscription.
The redesigned Paper is also meant to work hand in hand with Paste, allowing for easy sharing of Paper sketches straight into a Paste slideshow, and on iPads running iOS 11, you can even drag and drop sketches straight from a notebook.


If you managed to pick up a Nintendo Switch back when the console launched in March, there’s a good chance you’ve played plenty of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. And by now you may have exhausted much of what the grand Hyrule landscape has to offer — which makes this week’s launch of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 especially timely. Like the previous entries in the series, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is a sprawling role-playing game that melds elements of sci-fi and fantasy into something strange and unique. It’s a world defined by a sense of scale; everything around you seems absolutely gigantic. (Developer Monolith Soft actually worked on Breath of the Wild as well, aiding Nintendo’s EPD team with the open-world design.) It’s a journey that takes dozens of hours to complete.
And while there are plenty of significant differences between Xenoblade and Breath of the Wild, there’s one important aspect that they both share: the thrill of adventure.
In a lot of ways, the two games are actually at opposite ends of the fantasy adventure spectrum. Part of the reason that Breath of the Wild was so beloved was that it challenged many of the genre’s conventions. It was incredibly open, offering little in the way of direction, trusting players to figure things out on their own. You weren’t limited by seemingly arbitrary things like your experience level, and virtually every aspect of the game — from the combat to the cooking — felt like a natural part of the world. This encouraged exploration and experimentation. If you saw an ancient ruin on a distant mountain, you could find a way to get there. If you foraged a strange mushroom in the forest, you could use it to cook new replenishing meals.
Xenoblade Chronicles 2, on the other hand, sticks with many common RPG traditions. The game puts you in the role of a scavenger named Rex, who eventually discovers he has the power to wield a living weapon called Pyra. The two set out on a quest to find a long-fabled paradise for humanity called Elysium, which involves following along a set path. You can take on plentiful side missions, but there isn’t much opportunity to diverge from the main story. Your ability to go places is largely tied to your experience level; if you’re not strong enough, you’ll find yourself quickly wiped out by enemies more powerful than you. Success sometimes comes down to grinding for experience in optional battles.
By role-playing game standards, Xenoblade is on the more complex side. It features an at times confusing array of systems that take a long time to fully understand. The combat can feel strange; characters will attack automatically, with you guiding their placement and unleashing special attacks. It takes some getting used to, and 15 hours into my adventure I was still being subjected to tutorials explaining how to chain together attacks. Similarly, customizing and upgrading the characters on your squad involves a convoluted process with multiple skill trees and a gear system that works differently from most games.
All of this is to say that Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is a game that demands a lot from you. If you don’t pay close attention to the details, you’ll find yourself struggling. But once you get the hang of things, it’s engrossing: the complexities and quirks eventually become second nature, and you realize there’s a depth to the game that’s a lot of fun to delve into. But you need to be willing to put in the time to figure out how things work.
What makes all of this effort worth it is the sense of awe that comes from exploring the world of Xenoblade Chronicles 2. It’s a place that makes you feel miniscule. In this universe, humanity lives on the backs of giant creatures called titans, which are big enough that they’re essentially continents, walking through a mysterious sea made of clouds. There’s an incredible thrill that comes from running through an open plain and looking up to see what appears to be a moving mountain, that actually turns out to be the rocky neck of a towering creature. These moments never seem to get old, as the game continually throws new and strange places at you. At one point, you’re actually swallowed by a titan, only to discover a fantastical ecosystem living inside of it.
Visiting a different titan is like going to another country. The cities have their own unique cultures. Some are rural towns dotted by rice paddies, others huge cities with ports full of gigantic airships. The wildlife is especially diverse, ranging from terrifying dinosaurs to strange walking plants. And they behave much more like real animals than typical video game monsters. They run in herds, drink from lakes, and many of the more peaceful creatures will leave you alone if you don’t bother them. The landscape feels plausible, which seems even more incredible when you remember that it exists on the back of a massive creature.
This kind of world building has always been the highlight of the series. Xenoblade Chronicles X on the Wii U felt like you were living inside of a greatest hits collection of sci-fi art. There are some aspects that ruin the illusion — gathering fish, wood, or other resources means searching for specific glowing spots — but for the most part the worlds are a joy to inhabit, especially for sci-fi fans. Xenoblade Chronicles 2 simply takes things a step further by somehow making the sense of scale seem even larger and more intimidating.
But while the gameplay and world are worth investing in, other aspects of the experience don’t hold up quite so well. The story is, despite its unique premise, fairly predictable, and I never felt especially connected to any of the characters. (It’s also a standalone tale, so you don’t have to worry about having played the previous games.) Your squad mates can get annoyingly chatty, constantly repeating lines like “We’ll beat them with the power of friendship!” in the midst of a heated battle. Worse still, the game is filled with lengthy, and not particularly exciting, cutscenes. Thankfully, you can at least pause or skip these moments (a necessary feature if you’re playing on the go).
And while Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is a gorgeous game — though the resolution takes a significant hit when you play in portable mode — the character designs are a mishmash of styles that don’t really gel together. It’s weird to watch a supposedly serious cutscene where a squat anime scavenger and a doll-like robot are being accosted by a soldier of normal human proportions. It’s even stranger viewed up against the gritty sci-fi backdrop of an alien landscape. It’s a big departure if you’re coming to the game from Xenoblade Chronicles X, which had a much more consistent sense of style.
If you play these kinds of games for story and characters, those aspects of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 aren’t going to fully satisfy you. But the things it does well, it really excels at. The gameplay is deep enough that even dozens of hours in you’ll still be learning new techniques and details, while the world is so vast and strange you can’t help but want to explore. And like Breath of the Wild, it’s the kind of game that fits the handheld console perfectly, letting you dip into the world wherever you are. It may not be quite the same as venturing through the vast fields of Hyrule, but the sense of discovery is nearly as satisfying.
Xenoblade Chronicles 2 will be available December 1st on the Nintendo Switch.


Microsoft unveiled a beta version of its Edge web browser last month for iOS and Android. Testers had to sign-up to get special access to the new browser, but Microsoft is making both the Android and iOS versions generally available today. Microsoft Edge for mobile is mainly useful if you tend to resume a lot of browsing from a phone to a Windows 10 PC.
Microsoft has integrated its “continue on PC” functionality directly into Edge for iOS and Android, so you can ping a site over to your PC if it’s just not loading properly on mobile or you want to continue with a mouse and keyboard. Edge also includes access to favorites, history, reading list, and ebooks. Sadly, Microsoft still hasn’t added tab syncing to Edge for mobile, so you can’t share tabs or history between PC and phone.
Microsoft is planning to support tab syncing and the iPad at some point in the future, but both features probably won’t arrive until next year. Microsoft Edge for iOS and Android is available on Apple’s App Store or the Google Play Store.



When Dell first introduced its redesigned XPS 13 laptop nearly three years ago, it kicked off a renaissance in laptop design. Dell proved that you could have a full-size, 13-inch display in a computer that’s as compact and portable as an 11-inch model. Nearly every other laptop maker has followed down this path, and now there are a lot of laptop options with trim bezels and small footprints.
In the years since this design debuted, Dell has updated the XPS 13 numerous times, bestowing it with processor upgrades, adding new port types, and removing others. It even extended the design to a larger model, the beefy XPS 15, which packs a very powerful computer into a surprisingly portable package, and a 2-in-1 convertible take.
But what Dell hasn’t done is address many of the flaws of the original XPS 13. I’ve been using the latest model, which starts at $799 and comes equipped with Intel’s eighth-generation processors. By most accounts, it’s a great computer. But it also feels like a swan song for this design, which is perhaps ready to be put out to pasture.
Let’s start with the good: even though Dell’s tricks of slimming down the display bezels have been copied countless times over, the XPS 13 is still one of the most compact computers you can buy. It makes my everyday driver, the Surface Laptop, feel like a surfboard at times. It takes up such little space in my bag that I almost feel like my bag is bigger than it actually is.
The model I’ve been using has a bright, high-resolution (3200 x 1800) touchscreen display, a fantastic keyboard that’s a joy to type on, and a Windows Precision trackpad that’s smooth and easy to use. To the left of the trackpad is a fingerprint scanner that makes logging in quick and painless (if not quite as easy as the face-scanning systems other laptops offer).
Despite the small size, the XPS 13 still fits in two full-size USB ports, plus a USB Type-C Thunderbolt 3 port. There’s even a full-size SD card slot, which is such a rarity on computers of this size in 2017 that I almost wonder if it’s a mistake. (It’s not, and it’s wonderful.) Perhaps my favorite part is the battery meter on the left side that lets you check the status when the computer’s lid is closed.
Inside, Intel’s eighth-generation Core i7 processor (paired with 16GB of RAM in my test unit) is both powerful and power efficient. Just like we saw with the similarly equipped Yoga 920 from Lenovo, this XPS 13 can handle basically any task I have with ease, and does so quietly and coolly. It’s also able to last through an entire eight- to 10-hour workday with ease, which, while a far cry from the “up to 22 hours of continuous use” that Dell claims, is still good enough for me.
But even though the Dell has more than adequate performance and battery life, a lovely display, and great keyboard and trackpad, the whole package feels a bit stale at this point. It starts with the overall dense feeling of the computer: though it is extremely compact, the XPS 13 is not the lightest laptop you can get, and it’s not the thinnest either. It feels solid and heavy in ways that other computers don’t, even if it’s only a few ounces heavier on the scale.
And then there’s the placement of the webcam, which is something I disliked when I first used this computer three years ago and can’t stand today. To recap, the XPS 13’s front-facing camera is positioned to the lower left of the display. That enables the border above the display to be very trim, but it results in an unflattering, up-the-nose perspective from the camera on video conferences. To make things worse, if I’m typing on the keyboard, the camera sees my fingers in its frame, which is distracting to both me and the person I’m conferencing with. Other manufacturers, such as HP and Microsoft, have been able to put the front camera above the display and still maintain a slim bezel (and even include Windows Hello compatible face-scanning features), so it’s frustrating that Dell has stuck with this clearly inferior design.
If I’m being perfectly honest, there’s so much to like about the XPS 13 that if Dell had simply moved the webcam to where it belongs and done literally nothing else, I’d ignore the stale-feeling design and dense weight and proclaim that this is the best Windows computer to buy. But unless you really need that full-size SD slot or never use the webcam for conferencing, there are too many other options that do what the XPS 13 does just as well.
The XPS 13 deserves a place in laptop history for what it accomplished: making laptops smaller and more portable than ever before. But perhaps now it’s time for Dell to look to future and reinvent itself again.


The FDA has cleared the first medical device accessory for the Apple Watch, made by AliveCor, whose CEO is former Google+ boss Vic Gundotra. The accessory is AliveCor's KardiaBand electrocardiogram (EKG) reader, a sensor that pairs with an app and can detect abnormal heart rhythm and atrial fibrillation (AFib). The user touches the sensor, which snaps into a slot on the watch's band, to get an EKG reading in 30 seconds. The recording can then be sent to a doctor.
Using AI, the KardiaBand can predict and analyze someone’s heart rate based on data from both sick and healthy people, Bloomberg notes. “It doesn’t apply a generic range — instead, it determines what’s abnormal for you.” A device like this could play an important role in quickly diagnosing abnormalities and then alerting health-care professionals to life-threatening situations.
“Apple might be able to say ‘oh your heart rate is high’ …but what does that mean? Does that mean you should go to the hospital? And if you go to the hospital what are they going to do? Any doctor will say ‘ok come in, lets get an EKG reading’,” Gundotra told TechCrunch. “It’s not possible to diagnose atrial fibrillation without FDA clearance. That is a big, big play.” Apple has an initiative called the Apple Heart Study and plans to use heart rate data in building further research.
AliveCor also announced a new feature in its Kardia app called SmartRhythm, that uses AI to analyze data from the watch's heart rate and activity sensors. The app will evaluate the correlation between heart rate and activity, and if these appear abnormal, will alert the user to capture another EKG reading. A speech recognition function also allows patients to describe their symptoms aloud to the watch. The app will then generate analysis based on the data, which can be emailed to the user’s doctor.
KardiaBand is available now for $199, and requires a subscription to AliveCor's premium service, which costs $99 a year. The company also has a similar EKG reading device called the KardiaMobile, but that device attaches onto the back of your smartphone instead.






Google may be forced to pay out compensation to more than 5 million Brits if a class action lawsuit in the UK is successful. A group, labeling itself “Google You Owe Us,” is taking Google to court, claiming it unlawfully collected personal information by bypassing privacy settings on Apple’s iPhone Safari browser. Google, Facebook, and several other online advertising networks were caught in 2012 using a workaround to bypass restrictions, allowing the companies to deposit cookies on an iPhone even if the device was set to block them.
While Google claimed at the time its practice was limited to the company’s failed Google+ initiative, the UK lawsuit alleges that Google used the workaround to track “internet browsing history, which Google then used to sell a targeted advertising service.” Google’s revenues rely on selling targeted ads, and obtaining as much personal information on its users to sell services and recommend products.
Richard Lloyd, former director of consumer body Which? In the UK, is taking Google to court alongside law firm Mischon de Reya. “I believe that what Google did was simply against the law. Their actions have affected millions, and we’ll be asking the courts to remedy this major breach of trust,” explains Lloyd in an interview with The Guardian. “Through this action, we will send a strong message to Google and other tech giants in Silicon Valley that we’re not afraid to fight back if our laws are broken.”
The case is rather unique in the UK against a giant tech company. While there have been numerous class action lawsuits in the US against big tech companies, the practice isn’t as widespread in the UK. Google was forced to pay a $22.5 million fine for the same Safari privacy breach back in 2012. At the time it was one of the highest fines the Federal Trade Commission had administered. Britain’s High Court will hear the case some time next year, and if the action is successful then iPhone users from 2011-2012 will be able to claim part of the damages. Google says it will defend the case. “This is not new,” says a Google spokesperson. “We have defended similar cases before. We don’t believe it has any merit and we will contest it.”


Essential has rolled out yet another update to its camera app that adds new features and promises to help alleviate some of the photo issues seen with the Essential Phone. Notably, the update brings a new background-blurring portrait mode like those found on the Pixel 2 and iPhone X, among others. It also fixes some stability issues while improving image quality by reducing JPEG compression and adding exposure compensation to more camera modes.
The camera is seen as the Essential Phone’s weakest feature and the Achilles Heel of the bezel-less device. The company had previously rolled out app and firmware updates to address the camera's shortcomings. We gave the phone an 8 out of 10 in our review while noting the disappointing camera performance on a device positioned at the “premium” end of the smartphone spectrum. The Essential Phone's price was cut to $499 in October, $200 less than its original price, and that number dropped even lower to $399 for Cyber Monday.
Continued updates are a good sign, but fire-sale pricing and the sudden leave of Essential founder and CEO Andy Rubin have to make you question the viability of the fledgling company.



Google is launching another stylish and simple Android app designed to help people manage one of the core functions of their phone — in this case, data usage.
The app is called Datally, and it’s supposed to help you understand where you data is going and cut down on how much you’re using. Datally will show which apps are using data the most and at what times your data is getting used up; it’ll also recommend ways to cut down data usage based on your own activity and suggest nearby Wi-Fi networks for you to connect to.
More importantly, there’s a big button at the top of the app that lets you stop all background data usage, so only the app that’s actively onscreen can use mobile data. A chat-head style bubble will also pop up to let you know how much data your currently running app is using up. And if you don’t want to block every single app from using background data, Datally will let you go in and control data usage on an app by app basis, too.
If you’re a longtime Android user, Datally might not sound all that exciting. Nearly all of the app’s functions are already built into Android directly. But those features are hidden inside the settings menu, and they aren’t spelled out quite as neatly as they appear to be inside Datally. As a standalone app, it’ll also be much easier for people to find and remember to use.
Datally is being released as part of Google’s Next Billion Users initiative, which is focused on making Google products more usable in countries that have limited mobile connections and where lower-end hardware remains widespread. That’s why the initiative is focusing on basic features like storage management — as with its last standalone app — and data usage. It’s also why Datally takes up a tiny 6MB of space.
Josh Woodward, the product manager overseeing Datally, says the idea for the app came from seeing the lengths that people go to preserve data, particularly in countries where mobile plans remain relatively expensive. In Delhi, Lagos, and Buenos Aires, Woodard said his team saw people who would keep their phone on airplane mode at all times to prevent data usage. When they wanted to check their notifications, they’d turn airplane mode off, let all the info rush in, and then turn airplane mode back on while they looked over the new information.
“A bunch of us on the team spent a lot of time on long flights observing people in their homes, bus stations, classrooms, and kept seeing this airplane mode behavior,” Woodward told The Verge.
Google has been testing Datally in the Philippines since this summer. The company says it’s already hit over 500,000 users and that it’s been able to save people, on average, 30 percent of their data. As of today, the app is being released to the rest of the world and is available to any phone running Android 5.0 or higher.
Obviously, if you can afford to use the extra data, you probably won’t want to use this app. Cutting off background data use will hurt your overall phone experience, as not only will apps not refresh content in the background, but apps won’t send you push notifications either (which means you wouldn’t be able to chat with someone over anything but SMS). But if you’re constantly bumping up against your data cap, Datally seems like an easy way to start figuring out where the problem is.


Activision and Bungie have released a new Amazon Alexa skill that taps into Destiny 2 and lets you speak to Ghost, your character’s AI companion. You’ll be able to ask Ghost for tips on what to do in the game or explanations of its lore, as well as issuing commands for things like quickly equipping your most powerful loadouts.
This works through any Alexa-enabled device, like the range of Echo speakers, but Amazon is also selling a Ghost-shaped Wi-Fi speaker that you can speak to directly whether you're playing on PS4, Xbox One, or PC. You do already have to have a separate Alexa device for the Ghost speaker to work, however.
The Ghost costs $89.98 and will ship on December 19th — and you’ll have to be quick, since it only appears to be on sale for the next five hours.


On November 2nd, a rogue Twitter employee temporarily deactivated the Twitter account belonging to President Donald Trump. After initially reporting that it had been an error, Twitter said that the action had been taken by a contractor on his last day.  Now, after a global manhunt by journalists, the former employee revealed himself to TechCrunch. His name is Bahtiyar Duysak, a German citizen of Turkish descent, and he worked for Twitter as a contractor with a firm named Pro Unlimited.
Duysak said the move was “a mistake” and told TechCrunch he never thought the account would actually be deactivated. He attributed the deactivation to a series of unspecified “coincidences” that had occurred on his final day. “I had a wild time in America,” Duysak said. “I was tired sometimes. And everyone can do mistakes. I did a mistake.”
Duysak told TechCrunch that a Twitter user had reported Trump for abuse on his final day. “As a final, throwaway gesture, he put the wheels in motion to deactivate it,” TechCrunch reported. “Then he closed his computer and left the building.” Duysak did not explain his motivation or offer any other comments on the president. He said he did not believe that Trump’s account would actually be deactivated.
Duysak said he does not believe he is under investigation by the FBI, although Twitter has asked him for more information. He said he hopes to have an ordinary life, and said he did not plan to work in tech again in the near future. “But I love Twitter,” he told TechCrunch, wearing a sweater emblazoned with the stars and stripes. “And I love America.”


Bungie today announced a large-scale series of changes to the world of Destiny 2 to address fierce criticism from players, many of whom have been voicing concern since the game’s September launch that the developer was either ignoring community feedback or uninterested in changing what fans saw as fundamental flaws to the sci-fi shooter sequel. Some of the changes will go live with the upcoming Curse of the Osiris expansion launching on December 5th, with more to come in a patch the following week. The company also detailed longer-term updates slated for 2018.
Now, certain weapons will once again have “rolls,” or a randomly assigned set of unlockable benefits that make a player’s version of the virtual firearm different and potentially superior and rarer than another’s. Bungie is calling its new system for these weapons Masterworks, and there will be a way to unlock variable perks for specific weapons, including those items that are part of the game’s rarest weapons collections. You’ll also be able to make a standard weapon into a Masterworks one and re-roll the perks on those weapons individually.
Bungie is also adding a ranked mode for its competitive Crucible multiplayer mode, which pits humans against other humans (as opposed to against artificial intelligence-powered enemies), as well as private matches so players can compete directly against friends and have more control over the Crucible experience. Other changes include: a way to earn the game’s rarest loot — coveted exotic weapons and armor — through a system that will reward only those weapons players don’t already have; a more robust rewards system for the game’s hardest activities like prestige raids and nightfalls; more replay value for standard activities like strikes and adventures; more straightforward and transparent ways to purchase and customize armor sets using in-game currency and materials; and increased drop rates across the board for Destiny 2’s controversial token system.
The updates, listed in a blog post from game directors Luke Smith and Chris Barrett, take the place of a previously planned live stream for the Curse of the Osiris expansion. Following the cancellation of that live stream — the third and final stream in what had morphed into a contentious and failed attempt at communicating with an increasingly frustrated player base — Bungie decided to instead address the high-level criticisms with a list of specific updates and a concrete timeline for the implementation of the changes.
The company, since the launch of the original Destiny, has been plagued by an inability to adequately communicate with its player base. The developer has often made obtuse, sometimes mind-boggling decisions that are either left in place without further comment or largely ignored until players either become fed up and stop playing or voice enough criticism that Bungie rolls back the change or, at the very least, offers more detailed reasoning for it.
“Our team has been reading feedback and working on updates to improve the game. We’ve also been reading some tough criticism about our lack of communication, and we agree we need to be more open,” the duo write. “We know it’s frustrating when there isn’t enough of a dialog with the development team. You have our commitment that we’re going to do a better job going forward.”
The list of new changes is long and detailed, and any hardcore fan of Destiny 2 should head over to Bungie’s blog to read in it full. It is not, however, as exhaustive as some players may have hoped. The developer did not address the lack of Crucible playlist choice, leaving players with the two restrictive “Quickplay” and “Competitive” options. There were also no mentions of balancing issues between the game’s cooperative activities and its competitive ones, meaning core issues persist between how the game handles aspects like weapon loadouts and ability recharge rates across vastly different game modes. Bungie made no mention of specific changes to weapon classes or to any proposed tweaks to its controversial power weapons system, which moved some of the first Destiny’s most enjoyable guns, like sniper rifles and shotguns, to a more restrictive inventory slot that has come close to erasing their presence in the game.
However, it’s important to note that Bungie appears to be addressing some of the harshest criticism Destiny 2 has received in the last two months with direct and much-needed changes across every aspect of the game. The overall goal it appears is to give diehard players more reason to play the game on a regular basis, reduce more of the friction from and mystical nature of the game’s reward systems, make its in-game economy more manageable, and provide more quality-of-life improvements to the game to make it less of a slog. It all sounds very promising, and if Bungie follows through, the developer could very well steer Destiny 2 back on its path toward becoming an even deeper and more rewarding experience than its predecessor.
“Going forward, we plan to continue this dialog as openly and frequently as possible. This will be an ongoing process, but one that we are committed to. This week we’ll be publishing a new episode of the Bungie Podcast where we will sound off on the current state of Destiny 2, how we think about our communication challenges, and what it takes to update the game in the wild,” Smith and Barrett write. “Thank you for playing, for being passionate about the Destiny 2 experience, and for working with us as we look to continuously improve our game and studio communication.”



Today, Coinbase suffered a major defeat at the hands of the Internal Revenue Service, nearly a year after the case was initially filed. A California federal court has ordered Coinbase to turn over identifying records for all users who have bought, sold, sent, or received more than $20,000 through their accounts in a single year between 2013 and 2015. Coinbase estimates that 14,355 users meet the government’s requirements. The full order is embedded below.
For each account, the company has been asked to provide the IRS with the user’s name, birth date, address, and taxpayer ID, along with records of all account activity and any associated account statements. The result is both a definitive link to the user’s identity and a comprehensive record of everything they’ve done with their Coinbase account, including other accounts to which they’ve sent money.
The order is significantly narrower than the IRS’s initial request, which asked for records on every single Coinbase account over the same period. That request would also have required all communications between Coinbase and the user, a measure the judge found unnecessarily comprehensive.
The government made no claim of suspicion against individual users, but instead argued that the order was justified based on the discrepancy between Coinbase users and US citizens reporting Bitcoin gains to the IRS. Coinbase boasts nearly 6 million customers, but according to a government filing, fewer than 1,000 US citizens have reported cryptocurrency holdings on their taxes.
The ruling has already proven controversial in the Bitcoin world. “We remain deeply unsatisfied with the lack of justification provided by the IRS,” Coin Center’s Peter Van Valkenburgh told The Verge. “Without better rationale for why these specific transactions were suspect, a similarly sweeping request could be made for customer data from any financial institution. It sets a bad precedent for financial privacy.”
Coinbase had vigorously opposed the order on similar grounds, but cast the final ruling as a partial victory. “Although we are disappointed not to be able to entirely defeat the summons,” Coinbase’s David Farmer wrote in a post after the ruling, “we are proud to fight for our customers and in the result we were able to achieve as a small company against a large government agency.”
The company is currently reviewing the order, and intends to notify any affected users before any documents are produced.
Update 11/30, 1:33PM ET: Updated with Coinbase statement.
US v. Coinbase order by Russell Brandom on Scribd


Verizon is getting closer to releasing its first commercial 5G network, with the company announcing today that it plans on launching 5G in three to five cities by the end of next year. The rollout starts with Sacramento, California sometime in the second half of 2018.
There isn’t much more information beyond the location and general launch window — Verizon isn’t even commenting as to what technologies it’ll be using or what speeds to expect. So we don’t actually know yet if this is something like AT&T’s fake “5G Evolution” network, which saw the company repurpose existing technology from the LTE-Advanced and LTE-Advanced Pro standards in the name of higher speeds, or an actual, real 5G deployment of technology from the actual 5G NR standard.
Verizon does say in its press release that the rollout is based on the company’s “confidence in new technology powered by millimeter-wave spectrum,” which does lend some hope that it’s the real McCoy. Sacramento makes sense as a first city for Verizon, though, given that it was one of the 11 cities that the company had started initial 5G test on earlier this year. Details on the other four candidate cities, along with more information on the initial Sacramento rollout, are coming “at a later date.”


The Supreme Court heard arguments today for Carpenter v. United States, a case that could have serious implications on how police use cellphones to track a person’s location.
Timothy Carpenter was a robbery suspect arrested in connection with a string of armed robberies of RadioShack and T-Mobile stores in Michigan in 2011. After failing to catch Carpenter initially, FBI agents requested cellphone data from wireless carriers, with a court order from a magistrate judge under the Stored Communications Act. FBI agents obtained months of records from cellphone companies and successfully convicted Carpenter in 2013.
Because there was no warrant for the records request, the ACLU argues the location records were collected unconstitutionally. ACLU staff attorney Nathan Freed Wessler told The Verge that the government could potentially obtain even more sensitive personal data beyond location data without a warrant if the court rules in its favor.
“It would imperil the privacy of all kinds of data that we really can't avoid creating in the digital age,” he said, “Some are queries we enter into Google, our web browsing history, medical information, fertility tracking data from a smartphone app, [and] new information from Internet of Things devices we put in our homes.”
Courts have traditionally ruled that citizens can’t expect privacy after they’ve given up their data to a third party like a phone company. But Wessler, who argued Carpenter’s case in today’s hearing, says the Fourth Amendment requires police to either request warrants before they can access location data, or limit requests to a more specific period of time.
“The choice that Americans have is to either opt out of society totally to protect privacy or to give up all of our privacy rights in order to be modern human beings,” said Wessler to The Verge. “That just can’t be the right choice.”
Many of the justices listening to the case today seemed sympathetic, according to George Washington University law professor Orin Kerr who hosted a post-mortem analysis on the Lawfare page on Facebook Live. “It was a good day for Carpenter but not in the way that he was arguing,” said Kerr. His prediction is that the justices, including Sonia Sotomayor, will ultimately rule in favor of Carpenter through some combination of privacy theories.
For instance, during the questioning of the US defendant, Sotomayor asked, “If it's not okay to put a beeper into someone's bedroom, why is it okay to use the signals that phone is using from that person's bedroom, made accessible to law enforcement without probable cause?”
My guess: Carpenter wins, on some kind of privacy theory. Justices very skeptical of the mosaic idea, but likely 5 votes for Carpenter, maybe more.
Justices Samuel Alito and Anthony Kennedy seemed less sympathetic to Carpenter’s case. Alito compared location data to bank records, which can be obtained without a warrant, and are arguably more personal. Kennedy agreed, saying that unlike bank records, “your whereabouts are publicly known. People can see you. Surveillance officers can follow you.”
This past August, major tech companies like Verizon, Twitter, Google, Apple, Facebook, and Microsoft signed an amicus (“friend-of-the-court”) brief, backing Carpenter’s side. The brief stated that “the Court should forgo reliance on outmoded rules that make little sense when applied in the digital context.”
A decision is expected in the first half of next year.









Intel, which is trying to stake out a position as the leading provider of computing power for self-driving cars, is teaming up with Warner Bros. to develop “in-cabin, immersive experiences in autonomous vehicle settings.” Intel assumes that in the future, you’ll be watching movies and augmented reality productions instead of the road, while your robot car whisks you to work or the grocery store. This is the first major partnership between a movie studio and a tech company working on autonomous driving technology.
It’s also the first indication that the future of driving will be chockablock with advertising. We’re used to seeing ads on the side of the road while driving, or hearing commercials on our radios. But the idea that brands will be competing for space on the screens inside our vehicles — or on the windshields of the vehicles themselves — may not sit well with some people, especially if they aren’t afforded a chance to block or mute these ads. It might be too early to start worrying about the manipulation of self-driving cars to sell us more stuff, but that doesn’t mean advertisers aren’t already devising ways to do just that.
Intel certainly isn’t shying away from the possibility. In a blog post published today, the chipmaker’s CEO Brian Krzanich framed his company’s partnership with Warner Bros. as a demonstration of how entertainment will be consumed by passengers in autonomous vehicles while they are riding and not driving. Suddenly, all that time can be used to do work, catch up on some sleep, or more likely, watch hours and hours of television.
“Not only do we see passengers consuming content ranging from movies and television programming,” Krzanich writes, “we imagine riders enjoying immersive experiences never seen before, courtesy of in-cabin virtual reality and augmented reality innovations.” That means exploring ways to integrate Warner Bros. movies, games, and TV shows into the compute platform being developed by Intel. Intel’s goal is to “enable” passengers in their self-driving vehicles to “view advertising and other discovery experiences,” he said.
Intel is working on developing a fleet of 100 fully autonomous cars for testing in the US, Israel, and Europe, and says it will install this Warner Bros.-developed VR and AR technology in some of those vehicles as a proof of concept.
Honestly, some people may think that sounds pretty cool. Who wouldn’t want their trip to Walmart to be rebranded as a drive through the shrouded streets of Gotham City? Well, probably a lot of people, especially those who would prefer their commutes to be free of corporations screaming in their faces. Intel may be the first self-driving operator to openly embrace content creators as an active partner in the future of car design, but they won’t be the last.
“Get ready for your car to become yet another ‘screen’ where publishers and advertisers compete for your attention,” says a new report from Forrester Research entitled “Autonomous Vehicles Will Reshape the Global Economy” (via MarTech Today). “Don’t be surprised,” the report warns, “when you start to see big brands sponsoring your rides: ‘This trip is brought to you by the champagne of beers — Miller High Life.’”
To be sure, it will take decades to get to this point, if indeed we ever really get there at all. This presupposes a level of confidence and trust with the technology underlying self-driving cars that does not currently exist. And most self-driving car operators are focused on highlighting the safety aspect of autonomous vehicles, which arguably is a stronger selling point than trying to monetize your daily commute.
But it certainly raises concerns, especially if your Intel-designed car tries to talk you out of going to see the latest Marvel movie because of its preexisting relationship with Warner Bros. Because that wouldn’t be super at all.



Samsung filed a patent in Korea this past year for a social story sharing feature using Samsung Pay. The patent, which SamMobile first spotted, explains how users can share their legitimate purchases and maybe even rate the places they frequent. Samsung also discusses working with celebrities to launch the stories feature. The update sounds similar to Venmo's feeds in which users can share their money exchanges with the world.
The key difference between Samsung's proposed feed and Venmo's existing one is that Samsung suggests using it to advertise restaurants or other establishments that accept Samsung Pay. Venmo's feed primarily exists for exposing who you're sending money to and why. The company's public feed originally existed as a way to publicize the service and raise awareness, as Venmo product lead Melanie Aliperti explained to The Verge, which may be why Samsung feels it needs social media. Still, we have no date on when or if Samsung will release this feature.



YouTube is testing a new feature called “Reels” that, at least in concept, will be similar to the Stories you see every day on Snapchat and Instagram. According to TechCrunch, Reels will be given their own tab — separate from a creator’s main list of videos. YouTube’s reasoning for introducing them is not unlike what we’ve heard from Snap and Instagram: people want a way to share content without having to go the full mile and publish a traditional YouTube video. Reels are being tested among a small group of the site’s creators, and the company isn’t yet saying when this “new format” will be more widely rolled out.
YouTube is diverging from the typical Stories formula in several ways. Most notably, Reels won’t disappear after 24 hours or some other arbitrary amount of time. And YouTube will let users have multiple Reels — each with its own set of videos. That’s different from Instagram and Snapchat, where your temporary posts are part of one, centralized story.
TechCrunch says the process of making Reels is as follows: you shoot “a few quick mobile videos of up to 30 seconds each” and can spruce them up with the usual mix of filters or by adding music and text. “We’re also bringing creator-focused features like linking to YouTube videos and YouTube-y stickers,” YouTube’s Roy Livne said in a blog post.
YouTube giving into the Stories trend comes alongside the hire of Todd Sherman, who previously worked as lead product manager on Snapchat’s trend-setting version of the feature. It’s not clear if Sherman will be helming, in YouTube’s own words, the company’s “spin” on stories.
Some people will likely bemoan the idea of Reels invading the YouTube experience. But, at least during this initial beta phase, it sounds like users won’t be hit over the head with them through obnoxious placement at the top of the app or other ways of force-feeding the new feature to viewers. Only if users “engage with Reels” will YouTube possibly start displaying them in your main home tab recommendations, according to TechCrunch. “We’ll be experimenting with a beta version of Reels to learn and improve the product before expanding to more creators,” Livne said.


Facebook is asking some of its users to upload a photo of themselves to verify their identities. This feature isn’t exactly new to Facebook: users on Reddit and in Facebook’s help section have reported that they experienced it as early as April.
The screen prompts users with a message: “Please upload a photo of yourself which clearly shows your face. When you send us a photo, we'll check it and then permanently delete it from our servers."
The globally available feature is meant to help Facebook “catch suspicious activity at various points of interaction on the site, including creating an account, sending Friend requests, setting up ad payments, and creating or editing ads,” according to an official statement to The Verge. It’s an automated process that appears when a user attempts one of these activities or is found to have multiple accounts and it only works if the user provides an original photo that hasn’t been uploaded to Facebook previously. While the photo is being analyzed, users can’t log in until Facebook contacts them again in a 72-hour time period.
Update November 29th, 5PM ET: This article was updated to reflect that Facebook uses the feature to authenticate people after suspicious activity and it will not roll out over time.


Jim Beam makes bourbon, but it seems that the distillery is looking to make the jump into the tech industry with the release of its new product Jim, a “smart” decanter. But instead of telling you the weather or setting alarms, Jim pours whiskey.
In fact, that’s pretty much all Jim does. The smart decanter does seem to have some kind of built-in voice control if the video is to be believed, but instead of offering contextual responses, you’re pretty much just going to get recordings of the voice of Fred Noe, a master distiller at Jim Beam.
While Jim does look a whole like like an April Fools’ Day gag that’s meant to poke fun at the recent boom of products like the Echo or Google Home, it seems like Jim is actually real. Jim Beam is purportedly selling it on its site for $34.90 — which, fun fact, is actually more than a bottle of Jim Beam. It’s promising deliveries in time for the holidays, although it’s currently sold out. Jim appears to function off integrated 3G service for voice recognition, and the product page notes that it’ll expire about six months after purchase, leaving you with an ordinary, Jim Beam-branded decanter.
While it’s entirely possible that this whole thing is just a marketing stunt, Jim Beam has actually sold real products for the express purpose of mocking tech companies before. As AdWeek points out, the company sold wearable Jim Beam Apple-branded shot glasses last year to make fun of the Apple Watch.
If you do get your hands on one of the few Jims that the company seems to have made, it’s important to note that it doesn’t actually come with any whiskey. That said, there’s also nothing stopping you from filling it up with a better whiskey, should you prefer to drink something that actually tastes, you know, good.


Instagram is testing a number of new features including the ability to search for GIFs to upload in your stories, according to screenshots obtained by The Next Web. TNW also detailed a number of other new features Instagram appears to be testing: a close friends list to share with only a small group of people, an automatic archiving option for all your stories, hashtag and emoji search options, and the ability to follow hashtags to get top posts and stories on a particular trend. Granted, all of these are just tests, so we may not see them become public features anytime soon — if ever.
Yet another new feature TNW detailed with a screenshot is a bit more curious than the others. The screenshot shows a dual-arrow icon symbolizing what would appear to be a repost button that would sit next to the standard like, comment, and send buttons. An official “regram” button would allow users to easily repost photos from friends and other followers. The feature has been a top request of users for years, with a number of third-party apps on iOS and Android standing in to help automate the process in lieu of an official option from Instagram itself. Reposting has also been a hallmark of nearly every big US social network, with Facebook’s share and Twitter’s retweet buttons the most obvious examples, and yet Instagram has stubbornly refused to abide by this particular design conformity.
However, it’s not clear reposting is what the button in the screenshot symbolizes, although it’s certainly likely. Instagram declined to comment on the screenshot or any of the other tests, refusing to say whether it was working on or testing a regram button. That said, if this did become a new feature, it would surely be a useful one, as it would remove the need to put image credits as a caption on reuploaded photo or piece of artwork. A native regram button would also remove the need to use third-party apps like Repost for Instagram and Regrann, which may be why Instagram is staying silent on the subject for now.


A computer glitch has allowed all of American Airlines’ pilots to take vacation during the week of Christmas, according to ABC and Reuters. The error could leave thousands of planes grounded during one of the busiest travel weeks of the year.
Citing the union that represents pilots, Reuters reports that over 15,000 planes currently lack pilot assignments in December. “On Friday, management disclosed a failure within the pilot schedule bidding system,” the Allied Pilots Association said in a statement. “As a result, thousands of flights currently do not have pilots assigned to fly them during the upcoming critical holiday period.”
The glitch apparently originated in the system that bids for pilots’ time off based on seniority, leading to the shortage. “Basically there’s a crisis at American for manning the cockpits,” Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, told Reuters.
BREAKING: American Airlines says computer glitch allowed all pilots to take vacation over Christmas week. Now union says thousands of flights are in jeopardy of cancellation. Americans says they’re offering 1.5x pay for pilots to fill in and expect to resolve the issue.
American says it’s working on a solution. One possibility is to entice pilots to work by promising extra pay. The airline sent an email to employees offering one-and-a-half times their normal rates to help fill in, but a grievance filed by the union against management said that the restrictions on overtime pay were a violation of the group’s contract.
The union claims that management at American has not reached out to devise a solution. “Because management unilaterally created their solution in violation of the contract, neither APA nor the contract can guarantee the promised payment of the premium being offered,” the union said.
Update November 29th, 3:13PM ET: A spokesperson for American Airlines said in a statement, “We are working diligently to address the issue and expect to avoid cancellations this holiday season. We have reserve pilots to help cover flying in December, and we are paying pilots who pick up certain open trips 150 percent of their hourly rate – as much as we are allowed to pay them per the contract. We will work with the APA to take care of our pilots and ensure we get our customers to where they need to go over the holidays.”



New York attorney general Eric Schneiderman wants New York state residents to report fake net neutrality-related comments sent under their names. Schneiderman’s office has put up a page where New Yorkers can search the FCC’s comment database, then report any fake submissions to help with an investigation that Schneiderman announced last week.
The page asks users to post links to fake comments and answer a few accompanying questions, including whether the content matched their actual view of net neutrality. Schneiderman has previously said that “tens of thousands” of New Yorkers may have had their names attached to fake submissions, which were submitted in vast numbers during an FCC comment period earlier this year. He argues that this constitutes a form of identity theft, as well as a “potential corruption of the federal policy-making process,” since it’s an inaccurate representation of public opinion.
While people from across the country have reported having their identities used in fake comments, only New Yorkers are supposed to use this particular submission system. But Schneiderman’s recent announcement called new attention to the entire incident, especially as he’s accused the FCC of refusing to cooperate with his investigation. There’s no deadline for submissions, but agency press secretary Amy Spitalnick tells The Verge that “the sooner folks can check and tell us if their info was used without their consent, the better.”


In December, SpaceX will again send cargo to the International Space Station — but this time, it will use a Falcon 9 rocket that has already flown to space and back. NASA officially confirmed the decision today during a meeting, noting that SpaceX’s upcoming resupply mission will fly on a Falcon 9 that already launched to the ISS in June. It marks the first time SpaceX will launch a used rocket for NASA, further validating the company’s reusable rocket technology.
“NASA participated in a broad range of SpaceX data assessments and inspections regarding use of a previously flown Falcon 9 first stage booster,” NASA said in a statement confirming the decision to The Verge. Ultimately, NASA will consider flying on used Falcon 9s on a case-by-case basis going forward, the space agency said.
Throughout 2017, SpaceX has been proving that its Falcon 9 rockets are just as capable of flying to space a second time around. The company launched three previously flown boosters this year, all of which sent satellites to orbit and then landed back on one of SpaceX’s drone ships post-launch. Their landings have opened up the possibility that these rockets could fly for a third time, and perhaps many times more than that.
But so far, only a few of SpaceX’s commercial customers have flown their hardware on used rockets. The first to do so was Luxembourg-based communications company SES, which flew its SES-10 satellite on a used Falcon 9 in March. Next to take the plunge was satellite operator Bulgaria Sat in June, followed by EchoStar and SES again, which sent up a hybrid satellite together on a used Falcon 9 in early October.
Other customers are coming around: satellite operator Iridium will launch its next two missions, Iridium-4 and Iridium-5, on used Falcon 9 rockets. And even Israeli satellite operator Spacecom has decided to fly its next satellite on top of a used vehicle — despite the company’s fiery history with SpaceX. Spacecom’s AMOS-6 satellite was destroyed when the Falcon 9 it was sitting on exploded during a fueling procedure last September. After the explosion, Spacecom sought compensation from SpaceX, either in the form of $50 million or a free flight on a Falcon 9. Now it looks like Spacecom is going with that latter option, in order to launch its next probe, AMOS-17, and isn’t afraid to use a previously flown booster either.
NASA has been open to flying with used SpaceX hardware. In June, SpaceX launched cargo to the space station using a Dragon capsule that had already flown to space and back. After that flight, a NASA official expressed interest in flying cargo on used Falcon 9s, noting that the space agency had discussed it. “We are looking at it,” Ven Feng, the manager of the ISS Transportation Integration Office, said during a press conference at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in June. “We’re evaluating every aspect of it very carefully, and there is no schedule yet when we might go down that path.”
Now with NASA agreeing to fly on a previously flown Falcon 9, it’s possible others might hop on the bandwagon too — specifically the US military. Ever since getting certification to fly national security satellites, SpaceX has been slowly accruing more and more military launches. The company launched its first national security satellite in May for the National Reconnaissance Office and even lofted the Air Force’s super secret X-37B spaceplane in September.
And the US government has made it clear that flying on used Falcon 9 rockets is a definite option. General John W. “Jay” Raymond, head of US Air Force Space Command, told Bloomberg it would be “absolutely foolish” for the military not to fly on previously flown rockets in order to save on launch costs.


If you’re a hard-working lady, you probably already suspected what scientists have confirmed today: prehistoric women worked their butts off.
The bones of 94 women who lived in farming communities in Central Europe from 5300 BCE to around 850 AD reveal that prehistoric women had stronger arms than living women, including semi-elite female rowers. That’s likely because these farming women from the past worked incredibly hard — tilling soil, harvesting, and grinding grain by hand. And they probably started at a very young age, according to a study published today in Science Advances.
The findings show that prehistoric ladies didn’t leave the physical labor to the men. In fact, they toiled long hours and were a key “driving force” behind the social and cultural development of agricultural communities over almost 6,000 years, says lead author Alison Macintosh, an anthropologist at Cambridge University. “Now we can kind of see, actually there’s these thousands of years of rigorous manual labor that had been completely underestimated,” she tells The Verge. “It’s really important to be able to understand the contribution of women.”
When trying to re-create how men and women behaved in the past, and their roles in society, scientists have to look at the archaeological evidence, which includes tools, as well as skeletons. Bones function as a sort of hard drive, storing all kinds of information about nourishment and physical activity throughout a person’s life. If you work out a lot, you won’t just have stronger muscles but also stronger bones. “Your bones are really an excellent biological record of your life,” says Brigitte Holt, a biological anthropologist at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, who was not involved in the research.
Previous studies looking at prehistoric bones showed that when hunter-gatherers picked up agriculture and settled down, their legs got weaker and arms got stronger. That’s because these people stopped wandering around as much, becoming more sedentary and tending to crops and livestock. But these changes were more pronounced in men than women, says Macintosh, partly because men’s bones respond differently to physical activity. For that reason, comparing women’s and men’s bones is not a good way to understand just how much work women did compared to men.
“They just look much weaker than men, so we think they’re not doing anything when that’s really not the case,” Macintosh says. “You need an appropriate comparison to see that.” That’s why Macintosh and her team decided to put prehistoric female bones side to side with modern female bones.
She scanned the upper arm bones and shinbones of 94 women from the Neolithic to the Middle Ages, as well as the bones of 83 living women in Cambridge who either led a sedentary lifestyle, or practiced sports such as soccer, running, or rowing. Old and modern bones were then compared to each other. The researchers found that the prehistoric women had consistently stronger arms: the Neolithic women living about 7,000 years ago had 11 to 16 percent stronger arm bones than modern rowers, for instance, while Bronze Age women from about 4,000 years ago had 9 to 13 percent stronger arms than the rowers. That suggests women were working hard with their arms, but also that they likely started working when they were kids, when bones are still growing, Holt tells The Verge.
The leg bones, however, told a different story: some prehistoric women had weaker legs than today’s women, while others had legs as strong as those of runners. “It suggests that women were doing a huge range of things,” Macintosh says. Some might have had very strong leg bones because they walked a lot, tending to grazing cows and fetching water over long distances, for instance, while other women might have been more sedentary, grinding grain all day to make flour.
The study has some limitations: the researchers couldn’t take into account genetic factors, for instance, which can influence whether a person has stronger bones than another. All the living women in the study were also from Cambridge, so results could be different for women living elsewhere. Still, it’s an “excellent study,” Holt says, that finally confirms what scientists have long suspected: that prehistoric women were hard workers — and we all have to thank them for that.
“This kind of work just highlights the role of women in the development of life as we know now,” Macintosh says. “We all pretty much live in agricultural societies now. And these couldn’t have developed without all of this manual labor done by women over thousands of years.”


FCC Chairman Ajit Pai on Wednesday lamented the “harassment” and “threats” and “unfiltered rage” that often dominate social media, concluding he didn’t have an answer as to whether it had actually resulted in any “net benefit to American society.”
Speaking at an event in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, the Republican leader of the telecom agency said sites like Twitter do have some positive effects — including the “groundswell” in users recently tweeting #MeToo to shed light on sexual assault.
But he still acknowledged that social media had “downsides,” from the infusion of politics in “everything from entertainment awards shows to natural disasters” to the fact that “anonymity has made our discourse nastier.” It marked the second time in as many days that Pai had taken direct aim at Twitter and other tech giants, questioning the effects of their powerful, all-encompassing platforms.
“In a way, one could say that ‘social media’ is perhaps the most inapt phrase ever coined,” Pai said, per remarks shared early with Recode. “It allows us to stay in touch while keeping a distance. It has sped the breakdown in human interaction. It has fed the unfiltered id at the expense of genuine understanding. And it has to some extent enabled the worst of human impulses — the drive to associate only with one’s own and to exclude the ‘other.’”
“And this drive can spill from the virtual world to the real one,” Pai later added. “If you want to know where it leads, try visiting a college campus these days wearing a ‘Make America Great Again’ hat.”
Pai’s comments — made during an appearance at an event hosted by The Media Institute — come at a time when the whole of Washington, D.C., is grappling with the power of Facebook, Google, Twitter and other tech giants, and the ways they surface content for users or serve as conduits for information, sometimes fake or harmful.
But the FCC chairman’s recent comments about Silicon Valley have been especially sharp. Just a day earlier, Pai charged that Web giants actually posed an immense threat to speech online — particularly because sites like Twitter have “a viewpoint” and they “use that viewpoint to discriminate.” The rebuke came as Pai sought to make the case for repealing the U.S. government’s net neutrality rules.
“And unfortunately, Twitter is not an outlier,” Pai said during the speech. “Indeed, despite all the talk, and all the fear, that broadband providers could decide what internet content consumers can see, recent experience shows that so-called edge providers are in fact deciding what content they see. These providers routinely block or discriminate against content they don’t like.”
On Wednesday, though, Pai continued his onslaught, pointing to other ills on Twitter and social media writ large. The FCC chairman said he and his family recently had felt a great degree of “vitriol” — a reflection, though he didn’t mention it, of the online and physical protests targeting his net neutrality repeal.
“This unprecedented medium for collaboration and connecting people feels like it’s dividing us and driving us apart,” he said.
Pai took great care to note that social media had rescuers respond to Hurricane Harvey in Houston, for example, while tech had enabled “telehealth” services in Virginia. But he still lamented that “everything nowadays is political” — including, to Pai, the pressure on stars like Taylor Swift to talk about those issues. Noting he no longer had a Facebook account, the FCC chairman said that “happy timelines” on the site “changed dramatically in the lead-up to and aftermath of the 2016 presidential election.”
“Where does America go from here? I certainly don’t have a magic solution,” he said.  “But what I do know is that we can’t allow the strident rudeness of an angry few to overwhelm what I continue to believe is the quiet decency of most Americans.”
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.



Amazon wants companies to take advantage of artificial intelligence — and, more importantly, it wants to sell them the tools to do so.
Today, the online retailer’s business subsidiary, Amazon Web Services (AWS), unveiled a suite of new products to help with this goal. Chief among them is a $250 AI-powered camera called DeepLens; a new platform for developing and deploying machine learning algorithms named SageMaker; and services for AI-powered transcription and translation. With these and other tools, Amazon is making it clear that during the current AI boom, it wants to be the one getting rich shelling shovels. At the same time, these announcement show it butting heads with rival Google, which has been busy building its own AI enterprise stack.
Of the announcements made today at AWS’ re:Invent conference, the DeepLens camera is perhaps the most intriguing. Like Google Clips, it’s a camera with on-device AI functionality; but unlike Clips, it’s aimed at developers, not consumers. DeepLens ships with a number of AI tools pre-installed, including optical character recognition, and image and object recognition. “These will help you detect cats and dogs, faces, a wide array of household and everyday objects, motions and actions, and even hot dogs,” said AWS in a blog post. (Yes, that is indeed a Silicon Valley joke.)
For your average company, DeepLens means being able to test and develop new vision-based AI functionality much more quickly. For example, if you’re running a warehouse and want to automatically scan inventory, you might buy a number of DeepLens cameras to do the job. You could then use Amazon’s pre-trained AI to recognize basic items, or train your own model and load it onto the cameras. Each DeepLens captures 1080p video and audio, and is powered by an Intel Atom processor. For connectivity and exporting data there’s also Wi-Fi, USB, and a micro HDMI port.
AWS DeepLens -- the world’s first Deep-Learning-enabled wireless video camera for developers! #reInvent https://t.co/36jZTtaqnX pic.twitter.com/NOaJ5AQ4al
As you’d expect, DeepLens will be tightly integrated with other cloud and AI services sold by AWS. In the same way that Apple makes its products work together in order to lock customers into its ecosystem, Amazon wants developers to get all their AI tools in one place.
To further this aim, the company also unveiled SageMaker — an “end-to-end machine learning service” that helps data scientists build, train, and host AI services. It supports the most popular frameworks in the machine learning industry (including Google’s TensorFlow, Facebook’s Caffe2, Pytorch, and MXNET) and will essentially allow developers to go from finding the data they need to train their AI model, to shipping it to customers, all without leaving the program. And to top it off, Amazon also announced new AI-powered transcription and translation tools, which will be direct rivals to Google’s own.
But what does this all really mean? Well, most likely, it means that AWS — already one of Amazon’s most profitable revenue streams — could make a lot more money. The subsidiary is already the industry leader in selling server space to companies around the world, and if the demand for AI tools continues to increase, it’ll add to that business. With products like Alexa, Amazon has shown it can do AI; now it’s going to sell those smarts to others.
In the last quarter, revenue for AWS was up 42 percent compared to 2016, totaling $4.58 billion and beating analysts’ expectations. (The explosive growth AWS showed around the end of 2014 and beginning of 2015 has slowed somewhat, but it’s still improving quarter-on-quarter.) And when asked if AWS could eventually become the largest enterprise tech company outright, beating out established giants like Oracle, CEO Andy Jassy told CNBC ahead of today’s announcements: “It’s possible.”


Game of Thrones might be headed into its final season on HBO in 2018 or 2019, but the Syfy channel is hoping audiences will tune in for more adaptations of George R.R. Martin’s writing. On his LiveJournal page, Martin recently confirmed that the network has picked up an adaptation of his novella Nightflyers for a 10-episode first season, which he hopes will air in July 2018.
In May, Syfy announced it was rebooting with a new look and a slew of new adaptations, including one of Martin’s 1980 novellas. The network ordered a pilot for the project in June 2017, and it was rumored in September to have ordered it to a series. In his post, Martin confirmed the pickup order, and revealed some concept art of the spaceship from the show.
Nightflyers is set in Martin’s Thousand Worlds universe, and follows a group of researchers who charter a mysterious spaceship to transport them to an alien ship passing through the galaxy. Then something goes wrong with the ship’s computer. The novella was nominated for a Hugo Award in 1981.
Martin notes that he initially wasn’t sure how Syfy intended to make a series out of Nightflyers, “since at the end of the novella (and the film) pretty much everyone is dead (it was a horror story, after all).” He went on to say he was impressed with the script and “came away with a better idea of where they'd find a few seasons” for the show.
Nightflyers was originally published in the April 1980 issue of Analog Science Fiction/Science Fact. Later, Martin expanded the story to publish alongside a story by Vernor Vinge in a standalone volume. In 1987, director Robert Collector adapted the novella into a film; Syfy has since purchased the rights. Unlike with Game of Thrones, Martin won’t be involved in the series’s production, due to his exclusive contract with HBO.
Martin says Nightflyers will be shot in the Republic of Ireland, and suggests Syfy could cast some of the same Irish or British actors who appear in Game of Thrones, since they’re in the same area. “And considering how many characters we've killed, a lot of them should be available,” he jokes.
Over the past few years, Syfy has renewed its push into space-driven shows, such as The Expanse, Killjoys, and Dark Matter. Last fall, the network announced it was canceling Dark Matter immediately, while Killjoys would get two final seasons to round out its story. The move likely means Syfy will keep a couple of space-based shows on its schedule, and Martin says the network is putting “substantial” resources into the show, one that “should allow them to create a show that looks as good as modern audiences expect.”


Uber’s deputy general counsel Angela Padilla took the stand on Wednesday to respond to a damning 37-page letter that outlined a litany of questionable security practices alleged by a former employee.
In her testimony, Padilla said the employee, Richard Jacobs, was trying to extort money from the company and there was no merit to his claims. Padilla and Jacobs were ordered by a judge presiding over Alphabet’s lawsuit against Uber to testify in court after the judge was notified about the letter.
As a result of this new evidence, Judge Alsup granted Waymo’s request for a delay in the trial. The trial, which originally set for December 4, will begin February 5.
In it, Jacobs claimed Uber’s security team advised staffers to use ephemeral messaging systems, like Wickr, and non-attributable devices to avoid creating paper trails that may serve to hurt the company in the event of a lawsuit.
In a tweet, Uber’s new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi confirmed that the company used Wickr   and Telegram before he joined and he instructed them to stop when he joined.
True that Wickr, Telegram were used often at Uber when I came in.  As of Sept 27th I directed my teams NOT to use such Apps when discussing Uber-related business.
The letter — submitted to the court just days before the companies were expected to begin the trial — may be doubly problematic for Uber.
For one, Alphabet’s self-driving arm Waymo is already asking a judge to instruct the jury that Uber withholding evidence can be used against the company as it decides its verdict. The jury has yet to be selected. Both the delay in disclosing the letter to the court and the contents of the letter, if true, may serve to bolster that request.
Padilla, however, said the company hired an outside investigator, WilmerHale, to look into the letter, and said she would have disclosed it to the court if that investigation had revealed anything relevant to the suit.
Alphabet is suing Uber for allegedly misappropriating self-driving trade secrets. The company discovered a former engineer, Anthony Levandowski, had downloaded 14,000 files days before he left to start a company called Otto. Uber later acquired that company.
While Uber contends Jacobs’ letter is both meritless and unrelated to Waymo’s case, company security officer Mat Henley later testified that Levandowski and his co-founder Lior Ron both used Wickr to communicate.
"Today's hearing changed nothing about the facts of Waymo's case, and did nothing to support their claims that Uber is using their alleged trade secrets,” an Uber spokesperson said. “We look forward to our day in court and are as confident in the merits of our case as ever."
Oddly, Uber settled with Jacobs for $4.5 million, according to his testimony on Tuesday. One million dollars of that sum was paid to Jacobs as a consulting fee for aiding in an internal investigation at Uber. Jacobs’s lawyer, Padilla later testified, also received $3 million in addition to the $4.5 million sum.
Padilla said the company chose to settle with Jacobs in order to avoid the cost of litigation as well as any additional distraction it would cause for the company. The cost of discovery alone in that case would have cost $4 million to $5 million, Padilla testified.
“You saw it was a fantastic BS letter ... and yet you paid $4.5 million,” Judge Alsup said to Padilla, interrupting the Waymo attorney’s questioning of the witness to offer his own. “To someone like me, an ordinary mortal ... that’s a lot of money. ... People don’t pay that kind of money for BS. That’s one point. And you certainly don’t hire them as consultants if you think everything they’ve got to contribute is BS.”
“We had to continue an entire trial because of your decision,” Alsup continued. “You wanted this case to go to trial so that they didn’t have the benefit of this document, that’s how it looks."
Padilla responded the company escalated it to executives and board members, including Uber’s ousted CEO Travis Kalanick and former chief legal counsel Salle Yoo, as well as current and former board members Garrett Camp, Ryan Graves, David Bonderman, Bill Gurley and Arianna Huffington.
Alsup said, however, it still should have been produced to Waymo’s lawyers. Padilla conceded the point and said she “would take full responsibility for that.”
The company, Padilla said, also voluntarily disclosed the letter to the U.S. attorney of the Northern District of California and several federal state prosecutors because she thought they were being extorted.
Jacobs’ attorney wrote the letter after the company saw that he was downloading Uber documents to his personal computer, Padilla said. When the company asked him about it, he resigned.
Related
Henley, who was also Jacobs’ supervisor, says he was a poor performer and had to be demoted, during his testimony on Wednesday. That’s contrary to Jacobs’ Tuesday testimony wherein he said he was demoted after Henley claimed he wasn’t working with the legal enough to protect company information from being submitted into court.
Jacobs’ letter read:
"Jacobs experienced this review and demotion as pure retaliation for his refusal to buy into the Threat Ops culture of achieving business goals through illegal conduct, even though equally aggressive legal means were available to achieve the same end."
Henley went on to say that the company does not currently do technical surveillance of competitors and has discontinued use of Wickr. Questions over the validity of Jacobs’ claims continue to loom as both Uber executives have disputed many of the allegations in his letter and Jacobs himself walked back some of them during his testimony on Tuesday.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.



The line separating movies and games has grown increasingly thin over the past decade. The generation of filmmakers that grew up on gaming have incorporated visual cues and stylistic techniques from the medium, and some games can offer a more satisfying, dynamic narrative experience than the average summer blockbuster. But perhaps nothing has tried to so literally combine the two as Planet of the Apes: Last Frontier, which is out now on the PlayStation 4.
Set before Matt Reeve’s War for the Planet of the Apes, the game follows two interconnected narratives. On one hand, a group of intelligent apes grapple with the growing conflict between themselves and humanity (and the internal power struggles that result). On the human side, a mother tries to lead her small community, and protect her son, while navigating the moral complexities of a world in which there are no clear choices between right and wrong.
The narrative conceit perfectly evokes the films, but the gaming element is where things get intriguing. Last Frontier takes an even more cinematic approach than the works of Telltales Games, the studio behind interactive takes on The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones. Over the course of the game’s three- to four-hour run time, there are no puzzles to solve or levels to explore. Instead, the interactive focus is almost entirely on making key decisions that shape how the story unfolds. When you match this concept with the motion-capture and performance work intrinsic to the Apes films, the result is something that is part movie, part game, and part proof of concept.
So, of course, we had one of The Verge’s games critics and one of our film critics sit down to discuss what worked, and what didn’t, in Planet of the Apes: Last Frontier.
Bryan Bishop: I came to Last Frontier primarily as someone who has enjoyed the Planet of the Apes film franchise. I’ve played various Telltale titles, and when it comes to gaming, I generally find myself drawn toward titles like Beyond: Two Souls, or even the Uncharted franchise — experiences that are very clearly trying to evoke the same feeling one gets while watching a film.
But Last Frontier is definitely something a little bit different. Developed by The Imaginarium, the production company founded by Apes star Andy Serkis, and released by FoxNext, this isn’t just a game that feels vaguely cinematic. It’s an experience with a story that I thought could have actually worked as a traditional film (and in certain moments, may have even been better if it had been one). But the big question comes down to whether the game’s creators have come up with something that feels like it combines movies and games into something somewhat new. I think that answer has to be yes. What was your initial reaction, Andrew?
Andrew Webster: I went into Lost Frontier hoping for a more extreme version of the Telltale formula. Those games have always felt like interactive TV shows mashed together with classic point-and-click adventure games, complete with lots of fiddly puzzles to solve. But the interesting parts were always the choices: determining who lived or died in The Walking Dead, or deciding how Bruce Wayne should act in Batman.
Lost Frontier feels like a step toward that long-sought-after goal of making a playable movie. It just doesn’t quite go far enough for me. Most of your time is split between watching the story unfold, and making choices for various characters that can change the story. Some story and design issues aside, those aspects are great. But the developers also stuffed in a handful of game mechanics, particularly during the action sequences, so that you have to act quickly in order to shoot an attacking ape or put out a fire after an attack.
The problem is these kinds of mechanics alter how you experience the story. At times, I’d sit back to enjoy a particularly tense scene, only to be thrust unexpectedly into a pretty uninteresting action sequence. The two sides just never seemed to fully blend together. How did you get on with the more game-y elements?
BB: I thought they were fine unto themselves. When I actually felt like I was in the head of the lead ape, Bryn, I instinctually wanted to jump in and take part in the sequences. Similarly, deciding to not take action — this story toys with shades-of-gray questions about whether to commit violence or not — was challenging, but in a way that I thought evoked what the character would have been feeling. There are several moments in this game where it would be much easier to opt for the violent solution to a problem, and the frustration of holding back worked really well for me.
But you’re also hitting upon something that didn’t: pacing. The first half of the game is filled with opportunities to interact. Deciding how to respond in a conversation, or choosing whether to search for food on a mountain that’s safe for the apes, or go down to the plains where they run the risk of encountering people; there are choices everywhere. But the second half of the game seems to ditch that almost entirely. There are long stretches where I was just leaning back, watching this real-time movie unfold. When I say that Last Frontier could have worked as a standalone movie, I really mean it. And at times, I couldn’t help but wonder if that was how it had initially been conceived.
Properly setting expectations is a really important element that this game doesn’t really get right. If I’m expecting to jump in every few minutes and that’s what happens, I’m engaged. It it doesn’t, as an audience member I get frustrated and start to tune out. I had similar concerns about the way in which the game randomly switches between actionable characters. For the bulk of things, you’re playing as either Bryn, a principled ape, or Jess Ross, a woman leading a small town. But every so often — usually in the midst of an action scene — the game will somewhat randomly give you the opportunity to make choices on behalf of a totally different character. Did this bug you at all?
AW: Yeah, this happens a number of times, and it gets confusing because the game never clearly communicates that a switch has happened. One minute you’re a human escaping an attack, the next you’re the ape in pursuit. It’s jarring, and I often made a choice I didn’t intend because of the confusion.
It’s one of a handful of strange design decisions that holds the experience back, which is frustrating, because for the most part I enjoyed what the game was trying to do. I found myself connecting with both of the leads, Jess and Bryn, and I played the whole thing in one sitting because I just had to know what happened at the end. There’s also an irresistible layer of tension that doesn’t exist in film; it’s a lot more stressful when you have to make the important decisions yourself, as opposed to just watching Byrn do whatever he thinks is best for the tribe. Last Frontier does a good job at not making any one choice the clear and obvious “correct” option, and I genuinely struggled with deciding the best course of action during many scenes.
Unfortunately, moral dilemmas weren’t the only thing I had to fight against in the game. Lost Frontier also suffers from a myriad of technical issues: textures that pop in at the last minute, jittery transitions that cut off the introductory moments of scenes, and, in at least one insistence for me, my PS4 actually crashed just as I made a pivotal decision.
It seems that every time I really started to enjoy the game, something — a weird pacing issue, a jarring technical hiccup — would get in the way. Was I just unlucky, or did you hit these technical snags, too?
BB: I experienced them as well — and I think we may have had the exact same crash, when making a rather harrowing choice next to some train tracks. (Nothing says “immersion” like steeling yourself to actually kill somebody… only to be dumped to your console’s error report screen.) I also saw the same problems with texture pop-in. Sometimes an ape would start a screen looking like some terrifying, talking blob of plastic, only to be fully realized moments later — though it should be said that when they’re working, both the apes and humans are really well-done in this game.
I’m generally pretty forgiving about this kind of thing, but the fact that Last Frontier is banking on its cinematic feel made it hard to overlook in this case. It would ruin War for the Planet of the Apes if Caesar looked like a talking wax doll at the top of every scene, and I found myself expecting the same level of seamlessness when playing the game.
There was another thing that I found myself bothered by regularly, but this is actually a testament to how well the game works overall, rather than being a simple gripe. It goes back to the narrative structure Last Frontier employs. As we discussed earlier, there are parallel ape and human storylines, with the game cross-cutting between the two. It’s how things largely work in the films, and it goes give the game’s writers the opportunity to explore both sides of the conflict.
But when dealing with a narrative adventure like this one, forming a bond with the character you’re controlling is vital. I didn’t just want to choose between this phrase or that; I wanted to emotionally identify with the struggles, so that when something didn’t go as expected, I felt it on a gut level. I wanted to be invested — and cross-cutting between two stories worked against this. It was almost as if I felt perpetually unable to identify with either character, because as soon as I was drawn into one storyline, the game would inevitably cut away.
This isn’t a problem in films because we never have agency in movies. We’re just watching things happen. In games, there’s a different dynamic. I had a similar issue with Star Wars Battlefront II’s single-player campaign every time it would cut away from the story of Iden Versio. I found myself wanting a story that would allow for me the opportunity to take on a single role for the entire running time, giving the story more of a chance to make an impact.
Agency as a way to inspire emotional investment is a fascinating thing, and I’ve really been affected by it in immersive theater and alternate reality games. I’m eager to see what games like this can do when they really embrace that concept, because there’s so much potential here.
AW: I agree. The execution of Last Frontier is far from perfect, but the potential is so interesting that it’s worth checking out. The aspects that don’t work — the pacing, the bolted-on gameplay, the technical problems — aren’t so much an issue with the concept as with this game in particular. Fix those, and you could end up with something really special.


Warning: this piece contains extremely graphic descriptions of sexual assault and/or violence
For the last several years, Morgan Marquis-Boire was widely considered a rock star of the cybersecurity world. He was known as one of the “good guys,” an activist committed to progressive causes and the protection of digital privacy and human rights. Within the goth scene in Auckland, New Zealand, he DJed at goth events, where his bombastic personality and good looks earned him popularity and notoriety within a small and insular subculture.
But for me, and for many people in that scene, he also had a very different reputation: as a man who liked to sexually assault young women.
This past October, after receiving a report of a sexual assault by Marquis-Boire, the University of Toronto's Citizen Lab announced that it was cutting ties with him; progressive organizations like the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), First Look Media, and the Freedom of the Press Foundation did the same. Further reporting by The Verge corroborated multiple accounts of sexual violence and coercion committed by Marquis-Boire, spanning from the United States to New Zealand. The mounting allegations sent digital shock waves through cybersecurity communities, where he had been elevated to star status.
I know of Marquis-Boire’s conduct through painful personal experience. When I was a teenager, two women I was close with told me that Marquis-Boire had raped them. Later, he physically assaulted me when I tried to stand up to him. In recent years, numerous women have reached out to me with more accounts of his assaults. I cannot express what it has been like to watch his star rise, to see him paraded around by tech and hacktivist communities as a defender of human rights and watch as people took his word as gospel, while at the same time knowing he was hurting women.
One day, before Citizen Lab publicly announced they had severed their relationship, I posted a message on Twitter saying that he’d raped people I knew, and “broke [so] many lives.” I had no idea the news was about to break in America, but I’d heard someone was about to speak out about him.
The next day, I woke to a barrage of journalists wanting to talk to me about Marquis-Boire. I guess no one cares until they do. I refused all interviews; I’ve waited at least 10 years to tell this story, and I wanted to tell it myself. I have no interest in centering myself in this narrative. I just want justice. I want to amplify the voices and stories of women he hurt so badly.
There are numerous women I know about who have suffered enormously at the hands of Marquis-Boire, and my hope is that over time many of their stories will be told and remembered. Here are the stories of three women who gave permission to have their stories told. They have waited many years to finally be heard.
As early as 2000, when I was 15, I heard rumors about Marquis-Boire drugging and sexually assaulting young women, and warnings to “stay away from him.” He was about six years older than I was, but we ran in similar social circles. People admired Marquis-Boire and wanted to be around him; he was charming and intelligent, and spoke generously about his passion for human rights and feminism. Though some people were enamored of him, others were also afraid of him, and how he could alter their status within the scene. Whatever their reason, too many people came away with the impression that those who accused him of assault were crazy, liars, or out to destroy the career and life of a promising young man.
Despite the awful rumors, the cult of personality around Marquis-Boire persisted because he would dismiss accusations of rape or assault by saying that the women making these claims were unbalanced or crazy. Many people within our subculture believed him over the women who spoke out. The women who tried to hold him to account were routinely called liars by him, and the wider community. It is much easier to believe a woman is crazy than confront the truth that someone you know and like is capable of such unfathomable violence. Many of his friends and the wider subculture were willing to ignore his supposed “bad behavior,” to avoid making waves or risk losing his friendship.
Personally, I took the rumors about him as testimony and stayed well away from him. But in 2002, I began dating Marquis-Boire’s then-best friend, Carl Purvis. At the time, Marquis-Boire was dating a 20-year-old woman, whom I’ll call Emma. (She wished to remain anonymous for this piece.) Emma would become a lifelong friend, and over the years we continued to talk to each other about Marquis-Boire, and what he had done to us and other women. The Verge attempted to reach Carl Purvis, but he did not reply to a request for comment.
After the Marquis-Boire news broke in October, I asked Emma if she was ready to tell her story publicly. We sometimes talked about what it might feel like if everything finally came out about the abuse she’d suffered during their two-year relationship, which began in 2001. She told me that her relationship with him was “always sexually coercive.” I was present for one instance of physical assault: during a goth gig at Auckland’s Galatos events center in 2003, he beat her with a cane.
“After he’d whacked me several times with a short cane, he chased me into the women’s toilets,” Emma wrote me in an email. “I had to lock myself in a cubicle while people outside calmed him down, which wasn’t an entirely unfamiliar scene to people in our social circles.”
Others witnessed Marquis-Boire attack Emma with the cane, and one observer was hit herself. “Morgan was walking around that night and had like a cane and he kept hitting people with it and it [the cane] was really fucking heavy and it really fucking hurt,” she said. “And I know this because he smacked me across the back of the bare legs with it.”
Emma recalls the response to the incident from her peers being divided between laughing at Marquis-Boire being a “terrible drunk,” and dismissing Emma for being “such a drama queen.”
Some months after the cane attack, Emma, Marquis-Boire, and I, were out at a pub when he began shoving and cornering Emma. The fight spilled out onto the street. I stepped in between them to protect Emma, and Marquis-Boire shoved me, then flung me across the pavement, where I smashed my head against the concrete.
Following this incident, I became an outspoken critic of Marquis-Boire’s behavior. I’d seen him up close and personal, and what I saw was a man who was abusing and hurting women, myself included. I could not stay silent anymore. A few months later, during a party, Marquis-Boire showed up. Right there and then, I publicly named him as an abuser. I recall saying in front of him and many people in the goth scene that he was an “abuser” and that he had hurt both me and Emma. The same evening, Marquis-Boire made a threat that he wanted to kill me, graphically describing how “I’ll stab her in the side and she will bleed right out.”
Shortly after the October news about Marquis-Boire began circulating in New Zealand, I was contacted by a woman from Auckland who met him through mutual friends in 2001 when she was a teenager. She preferred to stay anonymous for this article, so I will call her Tilda. We arranged a time to meet at her house, and a few days later, on a humid day, we sat down on her couch and she told me her story.
Initially, she said, Marquis-Boire flattered her with compliments and attention. Tilda agreed to sleep with Marquis-Boire, but during the act he tried to coerce her into having anal sex with him.
“I was really sexually naïve. I was a young teenager and he was trying to get me to do things I didn’t want to do, namely, anal,” Tilda told me.
After this encounter, Tilda decided she did not want to sleep with him again, but they remained friends and things seemed civil. One evening, they were watching movies at Marquis-Boire’s house and having drinks. The next thing she remembers, it was morning. She woke up in Marquis-Boire’s room. He was lying beside her.
“I think he thought, ‘Okay, if I can’t get it consensually from her, I am just going to take it,’” Tilda said.
Recounting the night to me, Tilda snapped her fingers, and said she had lost an entire evening. She couldn’t remember anything. She couldn’t even find her underwear.
“All of a sudden it was the morning and everything hurt, and I remember my groin and rectum hurt, and I didn’t know what had been going on, and my clothes felt weird and everything felt tight and twisted around,” she said.
She started to panic and asked him, “Where is my underwear? Where is my underwear?”
He responded, “You were much more relaxed last night.”
“Everything felt foggy and I couldn’t remember anything,” Tilda told me. “I couldn’t remember how I had got there, and then suddenly I realized what Morgan was saying that we had slept together.”
“I didn’t want to sleep with you,” she had told him.
She tried to tell people that Marquis-Boire had raped her, but says most of those she told insisted she must have led him on.
“No one believed me. No one ever said, ‘Hey man, that really sucks. You know, he is an awful person.’ Even though him being a rapist was an open fucking secret. I’d heard so many rumors about him raping girls in the toilets.” In a personal message, Emma wrote me that Marquis-Boire used to pull her into bar toilets and public toilets in parks. “I believe there was a large element of degradation to it which excited him.”
Soon after this incident, Tilda was forced to leave Auckland because some of Marquis-Boire’s closest friends started bullying her in response to her speaking out about the assault. Tilda explains, “I was absolutely terrified and I couldn’t deal with all these older people basically wanting to run me out of town. I was so scared I actually ended up moving to Wellington.”
After a few years in Wellington, she returned in 2006.  She tried to avoid Marquis-Boire, but they still ran in the same social circles. One night, Tilda was invited to a party and he walked into the room. She was unaware he lived there. “[I felt] like a rat in a cage with a snake,” she said. Once again, she lost a chunk of time.
“The last thing I remember doing is pouring myself a drink in the kitchen, and the next thing I knew was I was in a bed and my face was being pushed into a pillow.”
She recalls trying to say “stop what are you doing,” but it came out as a gurgled mess. Her arms and legs felt heavy, but she managed to resist for some time. She continued to struggle, but then she felt something hard against her tailbone and realized it was Marquis-Boire who was pushing her down.
“He shoved my legs open,” she told me. Tilda stopped recounting the story and began to sob. Up until this point I’d been trying hard to hold myself together, but I couldn’t anymore. I broke down with her and took her hand and held it as tightly as I possibly could. I asked her if she needed a break, if she wanted to stop the recording. She said “no” and picked up where she left off.
“He shoved my legs apart and he kept patting my head and saying ‘shhh,’ and he shoved his penis really hard inside of me and I felt my rectum tear.”
“I started screaming and tried to struggle, but he just started punching me in the head… like one, two, three… ” She made swinging motions with her arm and a closed fist, “like, three really quick, hard punches.”
After that, Tilda said she went limp. Once he had finished, she just lay there crying while he kissed her and patted her on the head. She recalls him saying, “Oh you have always been such a good girl.”
With those words, she blacked out. The next morning, she woke up on his couch and could feel dried blood between her legs. A blanket had been tossed over her. Marquis-Boire walked out and told her she had to leave because his girlfriend would be there soon, and that “she can’t know we hooked up.”
“I seriously considered throwing myself naked off the balcony,” she said. “After he left, I honestly opened the door to throw myself off the balcony and just end it. But then I remembered my mum and my sister and my Dad and didn’t want to do that to them.”
I had heard about Tilda’s story many years ago, before she told me the gut-wrenching specifics.
Tilda says he made it very clear to her that if he wanted to use his hacking skills against her, he would and could. “Morgan had shown me many times he could get into anyone’s computer and, ‘I can ruin anyone's life that I want to with a click of the fingers,’” Tilda said.
I’ll never forget the day I read in an article that he was researching “spouseware,” domestic surveillance used mostly by men to control and monitor their partners, when he himself had used his tech skills as another tool for scaring women into silence.
Soon after Tilda came forward, Tove Partington updated her Facebook status alleging that Marquis-Boire had raped her. I contacted her over Facebook Messenger, and she expressed that she wanted to go on the record with her real name. She, like Tilda, had engaged in what was at first a casual and sexual relationship with Marquis-Boire in early 2003 when she was 16 years old. Partington told me that she was part of the punk scene in Auckland, but would sometimes attend goth gigs and ran in similar circles as Marquis-Boire. She explains that, at first, their sexual relationship was consensual, but over time this changed.
“The first time I woke up to him raping me I thought, ‘Well, maybe he has a high sex drive and he thinks I have a high sex drive. So, maybe, I gave mixed signals?’” Partington said.  “It’s just that he kept pushing his behavior further and further. Every time I slept over at his place I kept waking up to him raping me.”
She found it incredibly confusing and upsetting. “I knew it was rape,” she said. Partington says it was hard for her to understand Marquis-Boire’s actions, because he had won her trust and she considered him not only an intimate partner, but a friend, and she continued to date him casually. She tried to bring up how his behavior was making her feel, but he would respond by telling her that he thought she was “into it,” and could tell she “loved it.” He would say he cared for Partington, while at the same time violating consent and pushing sexual boundaries.
“What people still forget is how fucking charming he is. You know it is easy to say, to call him a monster because he is a monster,” Tove explains. “But you know, he was also my friend. And that was what was so hard, to reconcile the two Morgans: the one who refused to listen to you when you begged him to stop, or the one who just wanted to drink and have fun.”
Marquis-Boire eventually went overseas and their relationship ended, but the two kept in touch. In 2009, he returned, and Tove ran into him at a gig at an Auckland bar called Whammy. The two were arguing about something in the hallway where the toilets were located when he grabbed her and pulled her into a toilet cubicle. Tove tells me she said “No, I’m not doing this,” but he began taking her tights and skirt down, ignoring what she had said. Parington’s voice began to shake as she described to me what happened next.
“[He] sodomized me and I begged him to stop because it was hurting me. I screamed  because it was hurting me. But he wouldn’t stop,” she said.
She tells me that her screams were muffled as his hand was wrapped around her neck and she was struggling to breathe, but she managed to ask him to stop. He wouldn’t. After he was finished, they both left the bar and Marquis-Boire made “lighthearted jokes” about what had just occurred, much to Partington’s horror.
Partington says that when she shared her experience with others,  she was told she must have “led him on,” while his friends told her she was a liar. I asked her if she felt alone in speaking out.
“I don’t think I felt left alone with it all because everyone fucking knew,” she said. “It wasn’t that I was left alone with it. It was that no one cared. Everyone fucking knew about it.”
For over a decade, I’ve confirmed to anyone who might listen that the rumors about him were far more than just rumors. In response, I have been ostracized, called a liar, and of course, my personal favorite, “crazy.” Only now are people starting to listen.
In the weeks since the news about Marquis-Boire broke, people who were part of the Auckland goth scene all those years ago have sent me personal messages apologizing, saying they heard the rumors that he had hurt women back then and did nothing. The Verge attempted to reach Morgan Marquis-Boire, but he did not reply to a request for comment.
“It never felt like a secret that Morgan had a problem in his relations with women. And it didn’t matter if you believed he raped women, or you had just witnessed bad behavior,” a friend of his in the goth scene told me. “It never felt like a secret to me. It never felt like an open secret to me. I thought we all knew.”
Throughout this investigation into Morgan Marquis-Boire’s behavior and history, I have been asked the same question (with slight variations) over and over again: “How did so many people hear about what he was doing, and yet so few did anything to stop him?” The situation rarely makes sense to those looking in. People simply had a vested interest in ignoring his behavior. Marquis-Boire was good-looking and highly intelligent; he had a magnetic charisma that attracted people. Even as a young man, he held status and power and his social standing protected him from being accountable until now.
What compounded all of this was that many people within our scene were aware of what happened to those who did speak out; we were brutally harassed and ostracized for our courage. Very few people wanted to follow suit and stand up to Marquis-Boire. The consequences were too severe. People will often abandon their morals and principles once they become an inconvenience.
The complicity in the community enabled Marquis-Boire to hurt women with impunity. It allowed him to become the Marquis-Boire the larger public knew, the so-called human rights defender of the internet, while simultaneously earning a very different nickname from some women in Auckland: “Morgan the Rapist.” It let him be lauded as a hacktivist hero, some kind of crusader for digital freedom, even as he denied women their most basic freedoms from abuse and assault.
But now, finally, we are being heard, and justice is beginning to be served. I have been told by the woman who first spoke out to Toronto’s Citizen Lab that he will “never work in cybersecurity again.” It has taken nearly two decades for Marquis-Boire to face any consequences for the cataclysmic pain and hurt he has caused. Finally, he is losing the social status he should have lost long ago.
Even before the news broke about him in the American media, he began talking about changing his ways. I was told by a woman close to him he has been in therapy for his “issues” since as early as 2014 and claims he will continue to seek help. In a Facebook post from July of this year, he admitted he’d treated his partners badly and was now reflecting on his past behavior, which was both “painful” and “terrifying” and “necessary.” He was going to “meetings” for his drinking.
His claims of sobriety and promises to seek treatment just don’t ring true to me. They sound like a desperate man willing to say anything he thinks might get him off the hook. He had nearly two decades to correct his behavior, and he was called out countless times, including by me. In response, he threatened to kill me, bullied women such as Tilda into silence, and used his friends by proxy to further intimidate and shut women down who spoke out.
Marquis-Boire is not the victim here, and I don’t believe he can get better. In the end, I don’t care about his “rehabilitation.” What I care about are the women Marquis-Boire has hurt. What needs to happen now is that we all need to get better as a society. We need to get better at standing with women who speak out, instead of gaslighting and assassinating the characters of those who dare raise their voices saying “me, too.”
We aren’t alone anymore. Since the news broke, I’ve talked to many women in America and New Zealand who he has raped, bashed, and hurt. Our numbers are growing and we are organizing. We are collectively coming for you, Morgan, armed with our stories, our courage, and each other.
In October 2008, I went to a goth bar in Auckland, and it would be the last time I would ever see Morgan Marquis-Boire face-to-face. In front of his then-girlfriend, he started shoving and pushing me, until Purvis, who by this stage was my ex-partner, intervened and took me aside and said something I will never, ever forget: “Morgan is shoving you because he is afraid of you. He knows you will never stay silent about what he has done.” Morgan was right to be afraid.










Bitcoin is back in the news as its price continues a meteoric rise, with the cost of a single coin breaking $10,000 yesterday. Today, it was reported by several major publications that NASDAQ, the second largest stock exchange in the world, plans to launch futures contracts for Bitcoin next year. That would allow investors to bet on the rise and fall of the cryptocurrency, profiting if they are correct about the direction of its future price.
NASDAQ is hardly the first player from the traditional finance world to jump on the Bitcoin bandwagon. At the start of this month, Chicago’s CME Group said it would begin providing futures contracts on bitcoin as well. As The Verge reported this morning, while many well-known bankers and investors continue to deride Bitcoin as a bubble or a Ponzi scheme, almost every major financial institution has been exploring how they might interact with Bitcoin and its underlying structure, the blockchain.
The introduction of various financial products around Bitcoin will amplify the amount of risk investors can take. Cantor Fitzgerald, a large broker which owns an exchange, announced today that it plans to launch Bitcoin derivatives in the first half of 2018. Futures and derivatives allow investors to place bets on bitcoin without owning any of the actual currency, amplifying the amount of financial leverage on the underlying asset. It was an explosion of derivatives pegged to real estate assets like mortgages that underpinned the financial collapse of 2008.
As Bitcoin continues to mint new millionaires, real-world applications for the currency and the underlying technology have so far remained niche. There are countless startups attempting to use bitcoin, blockchains, and other cryptocurrencies. Fueling a lot of this exuberance has been initial coin offerings, where investors can buy virtual tokens in lieu of more traditional equity. This year alone, ICOs have raised hundreds of millions of dollars, passing traditional venture capital as a source of funds.
As veteran investor and financial analyst Josh Brown wrote on his, none of this is likely to change soon:
“These people aren’t going anywhere. Crypto is here to stay. It doesn’t matter if most of the ICOs see their token prices crash by 90% (which is what I think will happen). Walking the halls and having people come up to me to explain their projects, I came to the realization that price crashes alone will not drive these people out. They’ve got business cards, and signs and LLCs and money raised and there will undoubtedly be projects that become real companies, even if the majority disappear. This is how all capitalism works. The crash of the internet economy at the turn of the century didn’t kill the internet itself. Google came around four years later. Three years after that, the iPhone came out. Then Facebook and Twitter. These are all post-crash. So if you’re sick of hearing about crypto, the bad news is that it’s going to be a part of the world for the foreseeable future.”
Predicting exactly when the Bitcoin bubble will burst, as it has many times before, is impossible. But pretty soon, the world’s most venerable exchanges will let you start placing bets.


Microsoft is providing its second Windows 10 statistics update this year, announcing that 600 million devices are now running the company’s latest operating system. The number includes PCs, tablets, Xbox One consoles, HoloLens headsets, and even Surface Hub devices and phones. GeekWire reports that Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella revealed the latest figures during the company’s annual shareholders meeting today.
Microsoft had originally planned to get Windows 10 running on 1 billion devices by 2018. The software giant eventually gave up on that ambitious goal last year, and admitted it will take longer to hit the 1 billion target. How much longer is still unclear, as growth has stalled ever since Microsoft withdrew its free Windows 10 upgrade offer. Microsoft revealed its 500 million figure earlier this year, and the company confirmed that it has given up on Windows Phone recently. There’s now little hope that phones will ever contribute a large amount of aim of a billion devices running Windows 10.
Microsoft still appears to be on target to hit its revised milestone figures though. Sources told The Verge earlier this year that Microsoft was targeting 550 million active Windows 10 devices by the end of June, and 575 million by the end of September. Hitting 600 million by the end of November fits this new plan, but it’s not clear exactly when the big billion target will ever be met.


It was Thanksgiving, and the two worst trip planners in the world (me and my boyfriend), were frantically Googling “thanksgiving weekend getaways” to no avail. Rental car locations were closed, or their cars had all been booked for the weekend. I decided to try out ReachNow, BMW’s car-sharing service, which launched last year in Seattle, Portland, and most recently, Brooklyn. Our plan was to leave the next morning at 9AM for Oheka Castle in Long Island (where Taylor Swift stood on a horse for her “Blank Space” music video). I was pumped to get out of the city after being car-less in New York for so long.
ReachNow’s biggest appeal over its competitors may be its fleet of BMW 3 Series and Mini Coopers, an advantage over Car2Go’s smart cars and the majority of ZipCar’s lineup, which is made up of sensible Hondas. In Brooklyn, Mini Coopers appeared to make up the majority of the 250-car fleet, which is still a step up over a smart car. Driving a Car2Go, I felt every bump in the road, and was plagued with a sense of dread as I imagined how many times the smart car would flip in the air if it were hit by a truck.
The next morning, I opened up the ReachNow app and discovered a Mini Cooper parked a few blocks away. You can reserve the car 30 minutes in advance, but we arrived at the car just as time ran out, and the car declared itself unable to be reserved for another two hours. I called Member Support through the app, and it was surprisingly easy to get to a human on the line. I explained the situation, and within 30 seconds, the car was unlocked and we were ready to start our trip.
Membership is a one-time fee of $39, which is currently waived during its initial launch period. If you want to go for a quick drive, pricing is 41 cents / minute while driving, and 30 cents / minute while parked. If you want to keep the car for a little longer, price caps range from a couple hours ($100 for six hours) to a few days ($550 for a maximum period of five days). Insurance is included, toll fees are covered with an E-ZPass in every car, and you only have to fill up gas if you end your trip with less than five miles’ worth of fuel remaining. (You can check how much fuel a car has before you pick it up, so you’re not stuck gassing it up on your own dime during a trip.)
Once you sign up for a membership, you’ll be mailed a physical member key that can unlock the car in case your phone is low on battery, or if there’s poor cellphone reception. It’s not necessary to have it when you start a trip, though, since everything can be done through the app.
Like Car2Go, ReachNow allows one-way trips, which lets you park the car anywhere within your home area when you’re done using it. It sounds like a better deal than services like ZipCar, where you have to return the car back to its designated parking space. But if you’re living in a congested city with strict parking rules and insane weekly street-cleaning schedules, it can be hard to find a parking spot to leave your car. On our way back home, we wanted to stop by the popular, touristy Brooklyn Bridge area, and spent about 30 minutes looking for a parking spot. Eventually, we gave up and just headed home to end the trip. I’m glad we didn’t risk anything, because leaving my house the next morning, I spotted a Car2Go parked in front with a ticket wedged in the window.
The entire trip cost $123.32, including tax, for about six hours, which is more expensive than just renting a car for a whole day. But I didn’t need to drop off the car during rental car location hours, and the whole process was convenient and easy, minus the struggle to find parking in my neighborhood. The car was mostly clean, with just a few dead leaves here and there on the floor. If you ever need a quick ride to run some errands, or you want to take a day trip to the hallowed (blank) space where a famous woman once stood on a horse, ReachNow is good for that.
ReachNow currently has about 50,000 members across three cities, according to the company website. Shortly after it launched in Brooklyn last November, it hit a small bump due to maintenance issues and BMW temporarily suspended service for a few months. In the company’s defense, one-way car-sharing is a relatively new convenience that companies are still trying to figure out. Just this past May, GM started its own car-sharing service Maven in New York City, and last month, the aggregation app Free2Move launched to help customers find and compare car-sharing services and determine which one works best for them at certain times.
My only gripe with ReachNow is that the “Home Area” is limited to Brooklyn, so you can’t end your trip in Manhattan, which is only a few miles away from my home. Being able to end your trip in a street parking zone is nice, but designated parking spots might be a good idea, too. In comparison, Car2Go “Home Areas” are limited to Brooklyn and Queens, while ZipCar has the widest net, with rental locations in parts of New Jersey and all five New York boroughs. Since ReachNow is just starting out with fewer members, its cars are cleaner and in better condition, and if I had to choose a car-sharing service to rely on in New York, I’d go with ReachNow. But Car2Go did just announce they’re replacing their fleet of smart cars with Mercedes-Benz vehicles, so really, we as customers have nothing to lose in trying out all the options available to us. I’m ready to make the car-sharing services fight for my love.


For the last couple years, if an author wanted to promote their new novel, one reliable way would be using Goodreads, a social media site for booklovers, to set up a giveaway contest. Readers could enter the contest with the click of a button, and the author or publisher would be responsible for mailing out the copy when the contest ended. Up until now, the feature has been free to authors and publishers, but today, Goodreads announced that it will begin charging authors and publishers to give away their books. Conversely, the program has become incredibly popular, and the fees will undoubtably help filter out some of the noise that some authors have complained about.
The giveaway contests are an excellent way for authors to drum up some buzz for their book. (I did it myself with an anthology that I edited a couple of years ago.) When you or a friend enters a contest, it shows up on your timeline, helping to boost the site’s exposure. The feature also allows authors and publishers to get the books into the hands of non-reviewers (i.e., regular readers), who are then encouraged to post a review, usually before the book’s publication date.
Now, Goodreads is aiming to monetize the feature. The site is introducing two tiers for giveaways: a “standard” package, which will cost authors $119 to give away up to 100 copies; and a “premium” package, which will cost $599, but gives the author an “exclusive placement” on its Giveaways page. That’s only for a single giveaway campaign, however; if you’re marketing two books, you’ll have to pay again. (Goodreads is offering some introductory pricing: between January 9th and 31st, standard packages will be $59, while the premium tier will be $299.) It’ll also only be open to users who are US residents.
Up until now, authors and publishers have only been able to give away physical copies, but authors who publish through Amazon’s Kindle Direct Publishing program (Amazon owns Goodreads) will be able to list Kindle editions, something that was only open to established publishers. There’s some other useful perks for readers: both the standard and premium packages will automatically add a contest book to your Want-To-Read list, and users who have already added the book to the Want-To-Read list will be notified if it’s the subject of a contest. Winners will also be emailed eight weeks after the contest to review and rate the book. The new guidelines will begin on January 9th, 2018, and any giveaways started before then will run normally.
Unsurprisingly, some authors and readers are unhappy with the changes to the program. Goodreads has been a useful tool in the world of book discovery, as authors face an uphill battle of trying to get their names and titles out in an ever-increasingly crowded field. Now, they will have to pay to give away their own work. Lesley Conner, the managing editor for Apex Publications says that she thinks it’s a bad move on Goodreads’ part, and that running Goodreads promotions lately hasn’t been as useful.  (Disclaimer: Apex is the publisher of an anthology that I edited.) “This new change is like the proverbial nail in the coffin lid,” Conner told The Verge in an email. “We aren't going to spend the small marketing budget we have on a service that we've already noticed isn't that effective.”
In a statement to The Verge, a Goodreads spokesperson affirmed that indie authors and publishers were an “important part of the Goodreads community,” and that the program has been redesigned with input from authors and publishers. The company also notes that the cost of the tiers “reflects the marketing value we are providing to help authors and publishers drive interest and awareness of their books.”
With endless lists of books on retailers pages and on bookstore shelves, book discovery remains a challenge for authors, and Goodreads has been an incredibly useful tool for authors who don’t necessarily have the resources of a major book publisher, allowing their books to be listed alongside their heavyweight competition. These changes upend that. Smaller publishers and independent authors will be impacted the greatest: spending $200-$600 to give away one’s books just doesn’t make sense, especially when they can go onto their Twitter or Facebook pages and essentially run the same contest, even if they miss out on the ability to reach new readers through the site. By offering more attention to the authors and publishers who pay more to get their book prominently featured on the site, readers will only be able to easily discover books with the most marketing dollars behind them — which could leave indie authors and publishers in the dust.



Tesla’s Model 3, the most important car to come out in decades, has a confirmed range of 310 miles, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. That figure applies to the long-range version of the Model 3, and echoes the vehicle specs released by Tesla back in July. It also makes the Model 3 one of the most efficient passenger electric vehicles on the market.
The EPA’s range is used as the advertised figure for electric vehicles that are sold in the US. The 310-mile range is an estimate of the number of miles the vehicle should be able to travel in combined city and highway driving from a full charge. That’s 131 miles per gallon gasoline equivalent (MPGe) for city driving, 120 MPGe on the highway, and 126 MPGe combined.
You’ll have to pay more to get that extended range, though. Tesla said it would be selling a standard version of the Model 3, with just 220 miles of range, for $35,000. The long-range version will start at $44,000, the automaker says. Production on the standard version isn’t expected to begin until 2018.
Of course, that’s assuming you’ll be able to get any version of the Model 3 in the near future. In the last quarter, Tesla produced only 260 Model 3s; that’s about three cars a day and well behind a normal pace of about one car per minute. Earlier this month, Tesla pushed back its target for volume production on the Model 3 — widely seen as crucial to the company’s long-term future — by about three months to fix production bottlenecks.
Meanwhile, GM’s Chevy Bolt, the first battery-electric car to go on sale with more than 200 miles of range at a price of less than $40,000, has been increasing its sales each quarter. Last September, Chevy delivered a whopping 2,632 Bolt EVs in what is only the car's ninth full month on sale.



US spaceflight startup Rocket Lab is nearly ready to launch its experimental Electron rocket again. The vehicle is now scheduled to take off from New Zealand sometime during a 10-day launch window that begins on December 8th. It’ll mark the second flight of the Electron as part of the rocket’s rigorous testing program, meant to ready the vehicle for spaceflight.
Rocket Lab has been developing the Electron for four years now in order to launch small satellites. At just over 55 feet tall, the vehicle is easily overshadowed by other major commercial rockets like SpaceX’s 180-foot Falcon 9. But that’s because Rocket Lab’s goal is to only launch payloads weighing between 330 to 500 pounds. The company is offering cheap launches, too, starting at just $4.9 million, which is a small price compared to the tens or hundreds of millions of dollars that larger rockets usually cost. Rocket Lab even has its own private facility to launch from, located on the Mahia Peninsula in New Zealand.
But first, Rocket Lab has to show that its rocket actually works. The Electron successfully launched for the first time in May on a test mission appropriately named “It’s a Test.” While the rocket made it to space on that flight, it didn’t reach orbit. Later, Rocket Lab found out why: communication equipment on the ground briefly lost contact with the rocket during the launch, causing the flight to end early. The company claimed there was nothing wrong with the rocket itself, and if the equipment issue hadn’t occurred, the Electron would have reached orbit.
Now, the company is ready to go again. “We analyzed more than 25,000 channels of data from flight one, and we’re eager to learn more from this test flight,” Peter Beck, Rocket Lab’s CEO, said in a statement. Earlier this month, the second test vehicle arrived in New Zealand for the upcoming launch, aptly named “Still Testing.” And this time, the Electron will have payloads on board. The first flight just carried scientific instruments to collect data, but this second launch will have three small satellites: an Earth-imaging probe for the company Planet, as well as two weather and ship-tracking satellites for the company Spire.
It’s possible this could be Rocket Lab’s final test launch. Originally, the company had planned to do three test flights before the Electron was deemed ready for commercial missions, but Rocket Lab says it may skip the final test depending on how this one goes. If that does happen, the company could potentially get a jump start on its busy manifest, which Beck said was “overflowing.” A notable customer includes Moon Express, a private US company that is building a robotic lunar lander for the Google Lunar X Prize competition.
Eager space fans will get to watch this launch live, starting 15 minutes before the vehicle’s planned takeoff. Though it’s still uncertain exactly when that will be. Rocket Lab says four-hour launch windows will open every day during the 10-day testing period, each starting at 2:30PM NZT (or 8:30PM ET the previous day for us on the East Coast). And Rocket Lab warns that it will only launch if conditions are ideal, so people should expect lots of rescheduling.
“We’re expecting to scrub multiple times as we wait for perfect conditions and make sure everything on the vehicle is performing as it should,” says Beck. Those looking to see the Electron fly should keep an eye on Rocket Lab’s Twitter account, which will be providing real-time updates throughout the launch window.






Apple has just rolled out a security update for macOS High Sierra that fixes the major flaw that was publicly disclosed yesterday. A support page for the patch, Security Update 2017--001, confirms that it addresses the vulnerability that allowed admin access to a Mac computer without providing any password. The update breaks file sharing for some users, but Apple has released a fix for that as well.
Apple is urging customers to “install this update as soon as possible” right in the update description, and you should probably heed that advice if you’re running the company’s latest desktop software. Seriously. It’s even in bolded text. Apple is doing its part to make sure the crucial security patch spreads fast: beginning later today, the update will automatically be installed on all systems running High Sierra. That should make life easier for IT administrators.
But Apple is clearly disappointed with itself over this whole thing. It’s a humbling embarrassment for a company that so often highlights its focus on user security and privacy. "Security is a top priority for every Apple product, and regrettably we stumbled with this release of macOS,” Apple said in an unusually forward statement. “We greatly regret this error and we apologize to all Mac users, both for releasing with this vulnerability and for the concern it has caused. Our customers deserve better. We are auditing our development processes to help prevent this from happening again.”
To safeguard your Mac, just open the Mac App Store and you should see the update available to download. The installation process doesn’t require a restart — or at least it didn’t when I updated moments ago.
Unfortunately, the hurried update can break authenticating or connecting to file shares on some Macs. According to Apple, you can fix this by launching the Terminal app, entering “sudo /usr/libexec/configureLocalKDC” at the command line, and then entering your administrator password.
The exploit was shared in full detail on Twitter yesterday, prompting Apple to quickly publish step-by-step instructions for protecting against the “root” password loophole. This patch to fully resolve the issue comes less than 24 hours later. And it seems to have been a very quick effort; Apple says its security engineers went work when they became aware of the flaw “Tuesday afternoon,” which confirms that the company got no warning before it was publicly revealed.
Updated November 30th, 1:13 AM ET: Added instructions and link to repair file sharing.


Jocelyn Vera Zorn is not eager to talk about the loan she took out to buy the pants. “It’s kind of embarrassing,” she grimaces.
Really, she just wanted the pants: a special-edition pair of Imogene + Willie jeans in a vintage wash with a frayed raw hem that cost around $200.
“I don’t usually shop like that. I don’t usually buy new things, period” — but the pants were on sale, and she liked them, and “they were kind of an impulse buy,” facilitated by a new kind of point-of-sale personal loan from a company called Affirm.
Co-founded by former PayPal chief technology officer Max Levchin, Affirm promises a clear-cut, premium consumer credit experience. Since its start in 2012, the company has partnered with more than 1,000 retailers across a variety of categories to make more than 1 million loans with simple interest and predictable pay schedules. The installment loans, made at 10–30 percent annual percentage rates, or APR, and averaging $750 according to the company, are offered for everything from mattresses and plane tickets to motorized skateboards and coding classes to $500 boots and $200 limited-edition denim.
Backed by more than half a billion dollars in investments and debt, Affirm is hardly at the radical fringe of consumer finance. It’s been dubbed “the credit card killer.”
For merchants, Affirm provides exceptional benefits, increasing average order values across the board; perhaps not surprisingly, people will shop more, and more often, when they don’t immediately feel the costs. And for many customers, including Jocelyn, the predictable, convenient payments are worth the higher interest rates.
Affirm claims to be a more transparent and honest, if not cheaper, line of credit for the underserved. Using internal, proprietary data science and artificial intelligence, the company says it approves 126 percent more borrowers than traditional lenders, based on soft credit pulls and an opaque mosaic of consumer information.
Critics say Affirm promotes the worst consumer behavior: carrying high-cost debt for unnecessary goods. Affirm loans don’t just allow but entice you to buy something you can’t afford in one lump sum. But the loans aren’t Affirm’s real product — they’re a means to building and perfecting a new underwriting system to determine consumer creditworthiness, powered by machine learning and your personal data.
“Our goal is to be the app on your home screen for all of your financial needs,” says co-founder Max Levchin. “We are starting by reinventing credit because we believe it is fundamentally broken.”
It may still be outmatched by legacy financial companies and big tech firms getting into the payments business, but Affirm seems to mark a new age in the messy business of consumer finance — one where you too might choose to take out a high-cost pants loan.
Over the last century in America, each new small-scale consumer debt product has weathered waves of adoption, regulation, and easing, dictated by the larger economic and political patterns of the country. But arguably no consumer device has proven quite as disruptive as the credit card.
After the most recent recession, Congress gained the rare courage to regulate at least some financial institutions and products. The CARD Act, passed in 2009, was the most significant legislation in decades to rein in fee-happy, high-interest credit cards. The CARD Act also barred companies from soliciting new customers on college campuses, which helped decrease the number of young people in possession of plastic.
For the most part, though, banks and credit cards are regulated not at the federal level but by state usury laws, which limit the amount of interest a lender can charge based on where that lender is incorporated, not where customers live and spend. Which is to say, they are hardly regulated at all, as corporations simply locate in places with corporate-friendly laws. In 2010, South Dakota–based First Premier Bank made waves for charging between 59.9 and 79.9 percent APR on a MasterCard with a $300 limit. The card had nearly 300,000 active users in 2011.
Credit issuers rely on just a few large credit bureaus to find the best borrowers — generally people who will pay their debts, but not too quickly. The standard FICO model that grades consumer creditworthiness is often criticized for including factors that don’t necessarily predict a consumer’s behavior, like a late bill payment from five years ago, or hefty student loans. In 2015, 31 states won a settlement that limited how credit agencies could collect and report consumer medical debt. In 2017, more new rules stripped negative tax lien and civil judgment from consumer credit reports.
Since then, the average FICO score has risen, but many consumers have still been left behind. While more than two-thirds of Americans own at least one credit card, 20 percent are considered subprime, with a FICO score of 600 or below. Another 10 percent are on the bubble.
The ethics of lending to the subprime are not particularly clear. Thanks to FICO’s market dominance, a subprime consumer may have the ability to repay a loan, but be denied based on financial mistakes he or she made several years in the past. Without access to traditional methods of capital, the subprime are relegated to high-cost tools and services. This is the reluctant, conditional argument in favor of payday lenders, which make money available to people who would otherwise have nowhere else to go, even when they charge on average more than 300 percent APR for small personal loans. And with nearly 50 percent of Americans without $400 to cover an emergency expense, the implication is that these loans cover the necessities: rent, utilities, groceries.
We accept the inevitability and the usefulness of some debt, and of some people making some money from servicing it. Perhaps it was only a matter of time until American late capitalism was forced to grapple with the mechanisms and ethics of an installment loan product extended purely for the purchase of a pair of pants.
Affirm wasn’t originally built for pants loans, or at least that’s not the founding folklore: Peter Thiel was tired of driving a carless Max Levchin around after they’d sold PayPal, the story goes, but Levchin couldn’t qualify for financing on his own. Despite being a prominent member of the PayPal mafia, he’d made common 20-something credit mistakes, and had the bad FICO score to prove it.
Nathan Gettings, one of Thiel’s co-founders at the secretive data analysis and services company Palantir, went on to co-found Affirm with Levchin and former CTO Jeffrey Kaditz. Founders Fund, which Thiel co-organized, led Affirm’s $100 million Series D funding round in April 2016, which valued the company at $700 million.
“The core thesis behind Affirm is that there’s a large segment of Americans who don’t have access to fair and transparent credit, and there’s a large part of the population that’s mispriced because of the outdated FICO score and the existing credit system,” says Affirm’s chief of staff and head of international expansion Ryan Metcalf.
Affirm’s original flagship consumer product is a new user experience for an old idea: the short-term installment loan, made at the point of sale in partnership with retailers. Where other installment services such as Splitit and Partial.ly work with existing lines of credit and point-of-sale services to create predictable installments for shoppers, Affirm services its own loans but it does not originate them. Affirm may look and act much like a lender, but it’s really an asset-backed securitizer; its loans are made by partner Cross River Bank in New Jersey, then Affirm buys the loans back and holds the risk itself. Cross River originates loans for more than a dozen other online lending platforms. In November 2016, it raised $28 million to invest in more support for its financial technology, or fintech, partners and grow its own stable of payment products.
While Affirm offers a variable APR between 10 and 30 percent, the upper limit allowed in New Jersey, Levchin and Metcalf are loudly opposed to what they consider Affirm’s predatory competition.
“You need not look any further than the fact that credit card companies made more profit in fees last year than in interest income,” says Levchin.
“We did not want to be associated with payday lenders or subprime lenders. We think high-fee credit cards are egregious,” Metcalf tells me. “We realized early on we weren’t going to become the most profitable bank in the world — if and when we become a bank.”
Affirm’s interest is simple, not compounding, and the added fees are nonexistent. Still, the company’s brand of “ethical lending” and “honest finance” features a median APR of 19 percent, which hovers between the national credit card average and the national credit-card-for-bad-credit average. For someone with other options, using Affirm is a choice that carries a higher price tag along with greater convenience and clarity. “Our challenge is we’re not a bank,” says Metcalf. “We don’t have the lower cost of capital, so we can’t compete on price. We have to compete on user experience.”
It’s a cost that Affirm does not hide, and one some consumers seem happy to pay. Affirm customers have an average of 2.2 loans with the company, while some shoppers have upward of 50 at a time.
“It almost feels like an innovation, but it’s not, or it shouldn’t be,” says Tracy DiNunzio, founder and CEO of longtime Affirm partner Tradesy. “The big Affirm innovation is that you can understand your repayment terms.”
The far bigger, high-stakes Affirm innovation is its proprietary consumer risk-assessment scoring, or underwriting system. Without the fees that make upward of half of some credit card companies’ revenue streams, Affirm has to make up ground with volume. The company proudly lends to consumers who the larger market and traditional credit reporting standards would define as subprime, but its default rate is “well below the industry average,” says Metcalf. Affirm is heavily incentivized to find those good customers, bad FICO score or not. And it does so by compiling a broader, more complex, and ever-shifting set of details about every loan applicant.
“The secret sauce for the company is the underwriting,” says Jeremy Liew, who led Lightspeed Venture’s Series A investment in Affirm in 2014. “The point-of-sale lending at e-commerce is simply their first application of their underwriting model.”
In October, Affirm took its first big step away from a merchant-specific model with a new app that allows consumers to take out loans good for purchases at any retailer — a new opportunity for swift and wide-scale growth, and millions more loans across every retail category.
“You’re buying a thing, and you’re paying a fee to spread it out. Our responsibility is to make sure you have the ability and intent to pay it back in full,” says Metcalf. “At the end of the day, if you do that, it doesn’t matter what you’re buying.”
Fashion is Affirm’s third biggest category, behind homewares and travel, and clearly the company’s most vexing. The optics simply are not super-great.
“Apparel is really the only criticism we get. Like, oh my God, you’re financing a pair of shoes,” says Metcalf. “We’ve had this debate internally. We’ve had this issue with sneakers — $300, $500 sneakers — people have reactions to borrowing money for that kind of thing.”
Unlike a house, an average pair of pants loses most of its value once it’s purchased, and even more once it’s used. Unlike a car, its central utility is largely up for debate; it cannot transport you to work or to school, though it may well be of good use when you arrive. And unlike either of those things, it is not presumed to be a large investment purchase to begin with.
Betabrand chief marketing officer Aaron Magness tells me he wasn’t sure about offering Affirm on his company’s relatively affordable items. “The pants are $78, and the payments are $9 a month. To me, that feels kind of weird,” he says. “Should you really be placing an order for a $100 pair of pants if you need to break it into a payment plan?”
For Magness and Betabrand, that worry turned out to be unfounded. Affirm shoppers on Betabrand were of no lesser means or FICO score than non-Affirm shoppers; they were just choosing to spend this way, ordering several pieces at once.
Affirm’s fashion retail partners tell the same story over and over again: “surprising,” “extraordinary,” “overperformed from Day 1,” “I couldn’t believe it.”
Rebecca Minkoff began accepting Affirm in April. “We’ll do seven figures in volume with Affirm this year,” says Uri Minkoff, creative director for the brand. “That’s just blown us away.”
Affirm is not just meeting a demand, but creating one, encouraging shoppers to buy and spend more. Affirm claims an average 75 percent boost in order values across all its merchant partners. Affirm is clearly not just facilitating purchases that would have otherwise happened through other means of credit. Four retailers I spoke with reported significantly higher sales, and more frequent purchases, with Affirm customers.
“It’s kind of the point of credit,” says Metcalf. “It gives you access to things you couldn’t afford on a cash basis. It doesn’t mean you can’t really afford it.”
Affirm has also shifted consumer behavior in other ways: The short-term retail loans have helped to create a new kind of fashion economy. “We call it cyclical commerce. It’s a new rental marketplace,” says Metcalf.
Just as “the sharing economy” has proliferated in other sectors over the last 10 years, the idea of renting a dress has become as normal as hailing an Uber to go on a grocery run, or subscribing to software you once would’ve purchased to own. You can choose from hundreds of styles on Rent the Runway, along with Style Lend, Amarium, Le Tote, Gwynnie Bee, the Ms. Collection, Parcel 22, and more — even good old Ann Taylor has launched a new rental service.
Just as rental services have grown, so has the market for used goods. Where your local Crossroads may be willfully capricious, dictated by the tastes of its particular staff, the wisdom of the crowded online resale market tends toward truer values and more efficient, personalized item sorting. Resale sites such as ThredUp and Swap.com deal largely in less expensive clothing and accessories, but Affirm partner merchants Tradesy and the RealReal specialize in the higher end. While a pair of $200 pants may not hold much of their value over one Affirm pay period, a designer bag will.
“Customers are leveraging credit with Affirm in order to access higher-quality fashion,” says Levchin.
It’s a dynamic that Tradesy’s Tracy DiNunzio saw from the start: customers financing a purchase of, say, a $2,000 Chanel bag, using it for a few months, then selling it back, paying down their loan, and buying something new — all without ever extending themselves for the full price of the item. She sees it in part as a reaction to fast fashion.
“The combination of the Affirm credit and resale is just really powerful. It lets women shop for a constantly updating wardrobe without laying out very much cash at all,” says DiNunzio. “You still get the frequency, you have new things all the time, but you’re putting products back into the market when you’re done with them.”
Uri Minkoff has seen this new dynamic in just the few months since partnering with Affirm. “For us, it spurs a customer who’s super–brand loyal. It lets her dollars go longer,” says Minkoff. “She’s buying and reselling our product three to four times a year. Now with Instagram, you don’t want to have the same handbag in more than a couple pictures.”
We’re no longer paying for the ownership of things, but the temporary experience of ownership for short, discrete periods of time, a kind of access that comes at a fraction of the cost, even accounting for an interest up-charge.
According to our depressed wages, it’s not that we would necessarily prefer to temporarily access things rather than own them — it’s just that we’re poor now.
Affirm is hardly alone in its bid for a piece of the consumer debt market; credit dysfunction has inspired an entire fledgling industry of potential solutions. But with Levchin’s PayPal pedigree and more than half a billion in funding, Affirm appears uniquely positioned to succeed in a crowded fintech space.
“Max was definitely a big factor in us deciding to invest in Affirm. But we also have long held the belief that underwriting was the perfect use case for machine learning,” says Lightspeed’s Liew. “We have invested in a number of other fintech companies based on this idea of machine learning–based underwriting and online distribution.”
While tens of millions of underserved consumers may be all but ignored by traditional financial services, fintech companies have realized the opportunity in so many Americans who are living, working, buying, and borrowing outside of traditional financial institutions: This as-of-yet overlooked customer base is a captive market opportunity. The fact that these consumers are currently relegated to predatory, subprime services only makes the potential disruption more palatable.
Lightspeed is also an investor in ZestFinance, which similarly uses machine learning to lend to the unbanked “who typically had to resort to payday lending,” says Liew. Dozens more fintech startups are jostling to control this emerging loan market, to create the best underwriting model based on available consumer data, and to automate as much of the loan servicing as possible — while turning a profit, and keeping consumers satisfied.
Affirm’s customer ratings are, by and large, very positive. It has a Net Promoter score of 82, compared with a financial services industry average under 50. Its Better Business Bureau customer reviews are 84 percent positive, with an A+ rating. In 2015, Max Levchin joined the advisory board of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the government watchdog that collects and acts upon complaints against financial services and institutions. The CFPB has no complaints against Affirm in its public database.
However, in April, Affirm faced what appears to be its first consumer lawsuit under the Fair Debt Collection Act. The main plaintiff in a potential class action alleges he’d never heard of Affirm before receiving an opaque debt collections letter saying he owed the company $141.18. He’s suing Affirm along with debt collection agency Afni.
Lauren Leimbach, executive director of the nonprofit Community Financial Resources, questions the transparency on which Affirm so intently prides itself: Is the company providing a tool for the poor and underserved who don’t even have $400 to cover an emergency, or an aspirational tool for people who want to buy $400 shoes on a whim?
“I just find it disingenuous that they try to code it like they’re trying to serve the underserved. They should just be honest about what they’re doing,” says Leimbach, a former vice president at Providian Financial. “Millennials are like the temporary poor, because they’re young. That’s a different person than people who are struggling because they’ve fallen out of the middle class or they can’t get out of the working class.”
“I think that using machine learning for short-term credit is a great application. It is possible to learn and iterate for complicated credit-scoring models that really take advantage of all of the available data,” says Stanford University economist Susan Athey. “Having a better credit model can be a key strategic advantage, and since Affirm is the first firm offering exactly this type of loan, they can get out ahead of the competition with better models.”
But the competition is fierce, and the market is moving far faster than regulators could possibly hope to. “There are no laws to protect you,” laments Leimbach. “Consumers need to be advocating for more privacy rules around all this data, but in the meantime, companies looking to make decisions about lending money are going to try all these data elements to find what’s predictive. It’s rational.”
Most of the negative consumer reviews Affirm receives through Net Promoter and the BBB aren’t reports of being mistreated by a predatory loan servicer, but of being declined for a loan. A significant portion come from former Affirm customers reporting that, after receiving and paying down one loan, they were denied for another.
“That just seems odd. Research shows that type of behavior is very predictive of future loan paying capability,” says Leimbach. “As a former credit person, that seems to me that there’s something wrong with their model.”
Affirm might agree; the model, after all, is constantly in flux by design. “When you change the credit model, it changes the selection of consumers to take your loans,” says Athey, “and every time you change, you then need to wait to learn whether the model really worked.”
Affirm’s long game is not in little interest margins on pants loans, however savvy those loans may be. A true return on the $520 million that firms have invested or loaned to Affirm as of October 2017 would be in the success of an underwriting algorithm that would surface more potential customers for credit — a risk-assessment tool that would compete with a highly centralized and criticized legacy credit bureau market that hasn’t exactly proven to be very tech-savvy itself.
“Banks approach us for this all the time, asking whether they can purchase everything that we’ve built,” says Metcalf. “The short answer is no. It’s proprietary to us; it’s building our company.”
The long answer, though, is probably, eventually, yes. “I think there are great opportunities for us to leverage our own systems, perhaps in partnership with other companies, to improve our customers’ lives,” says Levchin.
Affirm is hardly alone in building and testing these tools, and FICO itself is expanding its machine learning operations in order to compete. Drawing upon a vast sea of information presents opportunities for customers who’ve been denied other routes to credit. But predictive algorithms are also capable of becoming automated machines of discrimination despite well-meaning human inputs, purely based on the vast trove of available data and correlations between traits and behaviors. And proprietary, constantly-changing underwriting algorithms that might deem your creditworthiness based on your social media habits are not easily regulated by existing federal laws.
Other would-be Affirm borrowers said they were rejected, despite their good credit scores, because they had past misdemeanor convictions. “In February 2015 we started declining for fraud reasons, for what we considered faults of character,” says Affirm’s Metcalf. “In January of this year, we stopped. We don’t decline based on criminal history anymore. We found there wasn’t a significant correlation in repayments.” Affirm doesn't release data on how many consumers it rejects, but says its notice letters meet Fair Credit Reporting Act requirements.
This is a perfectly legal example of a lender choosing not to lend to a potentially risky customer, in service of providing an ostensibly better product. But it also highlights an opportunity for a kind of discrimination once removed. If Affirm would reject all consumers with criminal convictions, it’d be rejecting far more people of color than whites — without actually discriminating against would-be borrowers based on their race.
Even the most well-trained algorithms have no inherent ethic, and have proven time and again to reflect and arguably amplify existing biases, if not provide for decisions that violate the law outright. “Even in situations where data miners are extremely careful, they can still effect discriminatory results with models that, quite unintentionally, pick out proxy variables for protected classes,” write Solon Barocas and Andrew D. Selbst in the California Law Review. Offering different rates or products to consumers in different zip codes is just one way firms can discriminate based on race without violating the letter of the law.
Levchin says Affirm is committed to maintaining full compliance with lending laws, and the company takes steps to protect its machines from learning to discriminate. “Our models use carefully designed, nonparametric statistical models. We have a clear understanding of the impact a variable has on the underwriting model’s prediction,” says Levchin. “We ensure that the candidate’s set of variables to be used for model training do not pose any concern with regards to potential discrimination.”
But the rise of big, opaque, life-changing data analysis has concerned lawyers, technologists, and consumer advocates from the National Consumer Law Center to Obama’s White House for years.
“Credit-scoring tools that integrate thousands of data points, most of which are collected without consumer knowledge, create serious problems of transparency,” write Mikella Hurley and Julius Adebayo in the Yale Journal of Law and Technology. “These tools may furthermore obscure discriminatory and subjective lending policies behind a single ‘objective’ score.”
Ultimately the algorithms that could prove to be a force in favor of opening up credit opportunities to the underserved — for pants, or otherwise — have just as much capacity to become engines driving further inequity.
Almost a year since buying them and a few months since paying them off, Jocelyn Vera Zorn is still happy with her pants. “Every month when I got the payment alert I was like, ‘Yep, still wear the jeans all the time,’” she says, grinning. “Love ’em.”
For Zorn, an ideal Affirm world would be a kind of full-stack shopping credit experience.
“I got so excited about the prospect of the loans, because it’s a little different from a credit card. It seems like a good way of budgeting, honing in on your clothing allowance,” she tells me. “Like, I could just have $150 worth of loan payments out each month. Clothing is something that I spend a lot of money on, so maybe if it was all on Affirm, I could regulate it.”
It’s not far from Affirm’s own plan for the company. In future updates, the Affirm app won’t just be a means to new loan products, but a holistic personal financial management tool designed to compete with existing services such as Mint. “Our whole proposition is: Trust us to help you manage your finances in an intuitive and automatic way,” says Metcalf. “It’ll have machine learning in the back end, connected to your bank accounts, to help you live within your means.” The app could then suggest whether you should pay in cash, or take out an Affirm loan with a 19 percent APR.
“Because we have designed our systems to understand our customers at an individual level, we are able to understand the personal needs of our customers in real time. As a result, we will have opportunities to help them in new, smart, and dynamic ways,” says Levchin. “We plan to have an active role in the new economy and reinventing credit is really just the beginning.”
Metcalf assures that “those pieces of our company won’t be profit centers.” But they will continue to feed Affirm’s churning AI core with fresh private consumer detail, from your mortgage to your car to your pants payments.
Most of us are not super-savvy, constant shoppers with a revolving closet of designer items. Most clothing is not very expensive, and it depreciates almost immediately. Your second monthly Affirm payment could be more than your item is now worth. Sunk cost isn’t something most of us consider when we buy a pair of pants, or a sweater, a pair of shoes, a bra. It’s an act of ruthless economic disassociating that can suck the joy out of any small consumer indulgence. If you’ve ever experienced the profound debasement of attempting to resell your used clothing at a secondhand retailer, you’ve likely already had this brutal realization: It is nearly worthless.
And yet, we need pants. Sometimes we need nice ones for work, or a formal occasion — well-draped trousers in a classic, hip-skimming cut, an investment piece that we hope to wear for seasons to come, but certainly can’t afford in one lump sum.
And sometimes — not often, ideally, but sometimes — we need special-edition vintage-wash jeans with a raw hem because, well, we just do.
Susie Cagle is a journalist and illustrator based in Oakland, California.
Editor: Julia RubinCopy editor: Heather Schwedel


You’ll never convince me that using an internet browser on a television set is anything but awkward and bad, but if for whatever reason you’ve been waiting to browse the web on Amazon’s Fire TV devices, the company has answered that call. The Amazon Silk browser, which already comes on Fire tablets, is now available for Amazon Fire TV set-top boxes, sticks, and Fire TV Edition HDTVs. You can download it from the app store on supported devices.
For now, as noted by AFTVnews, support is limited to first- and second-gen Fire TV boxes and the second-gen Stick — plus the Westinghouse/Element 4K TV that runs Amazon’s Fire TV software as its operating system. The most recent Fire TV released this fall can’t yet run the Silk browser; Amazon says an update due in December will fix that.
Follow that AFTVnews link for a walkthrough of Silk’s capabilities if you want an idea of what it can and can’t do. The in-browser video experience is apparently pretty good, so jumping into Silk could be another way of streaming content that’s not readily available elsewhere in Amazon’s ecosystem of apps and services. Even so, with my Xbox One, I think I can count the number of times I’ve opened Microsoft Edge — intentionally, anyway — on a single hand.


Yetis are just local bears, according to DNA tests on hair and teeth specimens that allegedly belonged to the legendary abominable snowman.
In the continuing quest to figure out whether the yeti exists, scientists analyzed nine “yeti” samples that came from sources like mummified animals and a stuffed yeti in museums. (The samples belong to a company making a film about yetis.) Researchers compared the DNA of these purported yeti samples to 15 samples of genetic material from brown bears. Eight of the “yeti” turned out to be just local bears, according to a study published in the journal Proceedings of Royal Society B. The ninth sample, the one that belonged to the stuffed yeti, was actually a stuffed bear with the teeth of a dog.
So, for example, the “yetis” from Tibet were Tibetan bears, and the ones from Himalaya were just Himalayan bears, said co-author Charlotte Lindqvist, a University at Buffalo geneticist, according to The Guardian. She added that the results would be “perhaps slightly disappointing to the film company.” I bet.
This isn’t the first time that DNA tests have disproven yeti claims. A few years ago, Oxford University geneticist Bryan Sykes analyzed “yeti” samples from around the world, only to find that they mostly belonged to raccoons, cows, sheep, and even a human. At least bears are a little closer to the yeti than raccoons.





Circuit Breaker Live was on Twitter this week not once, but twice! What a treat!
Yesterday, Jake Kastrenakes was on to show us the future of holograms with the HoloPlayer One; Sean O'Kane brought the Pixel Buds on-air with a live translation demo; and Chaim Gartenberg brought a bevy of strange phones for us to gawk at.
We’ve uploaded the full episode online for you above, and you can always watch past episodes in our Storystream below.


Apple and Qualcomm’s legal battle continues today with a new claim of patent infringement focused on some of Qualcomm’s top processors.
Apple claims that Qualcomm is infringing eight battery life patents with its processors. In particular, it singles out the Snapdragon 800 and the Snapdragon 820. Those aren’t Qualcomm’s most recent processors, but they’re part of Qualcomm’s flagship line and powered high-end phones as recently as a year ago.
The patents cover technologies that help a processor draw as little power as necessary and allow a processor to quickly increase and decrease its power usage. The new claims were first reported by Reuters.
The new claims are a late counterstrike to patent infringement claims that Qualcomm made over the summer. Qualcomm alleges that Apple is in violation of six of its own patents, also having to do with battery life, and is trying to get iPhones banned as a result.
Apple is filing these new patent infringement claims in an attempt to get Qualcomm’s patent claims dismissed. Apple says it began filing for battery life patents long before Qualcomm went after its own battery life patents, and it says that Qualcomm’s infringement claims appear “to be a blatant effort to take credit for the innovation of others.” The company’s filing goes on to claim that Qualcomm selectively gained patents that covered technologies that might be inside Apple products “much like a common patent troll.”
Qualcomm didn’t respond to a request for comment. Apple said it didn’t have anything to add beyond what’s in the filing.
This fight over battery life patents is really just a small skirmish in the larger legal fight being waged by the two companies. The dispute kicked off at the beginning of the year, when Apple began filing lawsuits around the globe accusing Qualcomm of abusing its market position to charge unreasonable prices for its LTE modems.
Qualcomm has denied these charges and countersued Apple for withholding payments, violating patents, and sharing proprietary code.
But for the time being, things aren’t looking great for Qualcomm. Apple’s claims are echoed by lawsuits that regulators from a number of countries have chased Qualcomm with in recent years — to some success. The US is going after Qualcomm along those lines, too. On top of that, Samsung and Intel are trying to help the Federal Trade Commission’s case, so Qualcomm has a lot to fight back against.
Update November 29th, 11:33AM ET: This story has been updated with more information from Apple’s legal filing.


The Mr. Robot Digital After Show is returning after a brief holiday hiatus! Tune in at 11PM ET to watch Nilay Patel, Russell Brandom, and me, Megan Farokhmanesh, talk everything hackers and Rami Malek. Tonight, we’ll have two special guests: composer Mac Quayle and The Verge’s culture editor Laura Hudson.
You can watch here on The Verge, or on the Mr. Robot Facebook page. Got questions? Drop ’em over in our Mr. Robot Reddit thread, or join the conversation in real time using the #RobotAfterShow hashtag on Twitter. We didn’t have an episode last week, but if you missed the one before that, with Martin Wallström, be sure to get caught up on YouTube.
One more thing: USA Network is owned by NBCUniversal, which owns a minority stake in Vox Media, The Verge’s parent company. Like everything else that comes from The Verge’s editorial staff, the Mr. Robot Digital After Show is an independent editorial product, guided only by our interests and taste. Also, no spoilers.


If you’re a millennial, you probably grew up with the robotic furry critter toy known as Furby. It’s gone through a lot of iterations, and now somebody’s tinkered with one to make it speak using Amazon’s Alexa. It is quite frightening and disconcerting to hear Alexa’s adult lady voice come out of Furby, which is known for speaking disjointed English and gibberish.
Zack, from Howchoo details how to hack your own Furby using Amazon’s open-source Alexa Voice Service running on a Raspberry Pi and custom Python scripts. Zack says the entire project cost him $50, which includes all the materials, plus an old Furby off eBay. The process is a bit fiddly, involving soldering, disassembling the toy, and some programming. The result is a kind of super-Furby that can turn on your dining room lights and tell you the weather forecast, which is really neat.
Here’s what Furby looks like without its fur but with the Raspberry Pi fully installed:
And I’ll just end on this front view:


Self-driving cars from Alphabet’s Waymo are currently cruising the streets of suburban Arizona, navigating around with no human at the ready to take the wheel should something go wrong. It’s some of the most advanced testing we’ve seen so far,  reaching what’s know as Level 4 autonomy. These cars can operate without any human input, but only under certain conditions and on certain roads.
Velodyne, one of the leading manufacturers of laser sensor for self driving cars, made an announcement this morning that it hopes will push things to the next level. The company released details of its latest product, the VLS-128. It’s the most powerful LIDAR the company has ever created, with twice the range and three times the resolution of its predecessor. “This product was designed and built for the level 5, fully autonomous, mobility as a service market,” says Anand Gopalan, the company’s CTO, meaning it can perform as well or better than a human under any circumstances.
The most important sensor in most self-driving cars these days is LIDAR, a laser scanner that can provide a 360-degree view of what’s happening around the vehicle. To illustrate the capabilities of the 128, Gopalan gives an example of a particularly challenging situation. “There is a small black object far out in front of you. Is it a piece of paper, a butterfly, or some tire debris? The autonomous vehicle needs to be able to see this object and make a decision about whether it should change lanes or break, and then take action. Traveling at 70 miles per hour, you have precious little time to do this.”
Gopalan says that the 128 can handle this sort of edge case. It’s 300 meter range and incredible detail are one part of the equation. But it also works for tricky scenarios like tire debris because it allows an autonomous driving system to take fewer steps between seeing the world and deciding what to do. “With lower-resolution LIDAR you would need to somehow fuse the data with cameras and do some processing to create something that can be understood by the computer,” he tells The Verge. “You now have such a high-resolution image, you can take the data and put it directly into an image classification algorithm.  It reduces complexity and time.”
Just last month Nvidia claimed its computer vision systems are ready for Level 5 autonomy. Intel has made similar noises. And Waymo, in demonstrating its latest system to our reporter, touted its ability to see and identify debris on the road.
Of course, Velodyne doesn’t compete directly with either of these companies. Its LIDAR system is a complement to the chips sold by companies like Nvidia. And while some automakers are working on building their own LIDAR in house, most are turning to suppliers like Velodyne as they look to build driverless car services that would compete with the likes of Waymo and Uber.
Velodyne says that it managed to add more range and resolution to its latest unit, while simultaneously reducing the size, weight, and power consumption. For now, however, it’s staying mum on the price. In fact, says founder and CEO David Hall, price isn’t really the point. “We took a cost is no issue approach with this thing,” says Hall. “The mobility-as-a-service customer would just as soon have a higher end LIDAR. The costs aren’t that high, when compared to the value of not having a driver.”


Snap today introduced a redesign of its flagship app intended to promote more intimate sharing among friend groups while pushing professionally produced content into a separate feed. The redesigned Snapchat includes a new dynamic friends page that incorporates both chat messages and ephemeral stories, and pushes items from your close friends to the top of the feed for the first time. It will begin appearing later this week for a small test group, and is expected to roll out more broadly in coming weeks.
The move comes at a time when Snap is under mounting pressure to grow its stagnant user base. The core idea in the new Snapchat is to put your friends on one side of the app, and brands on the other. In the center is Snap camera, which will remain the app’s home screen. (It produces 3.5 billion snaps a day, the company says.) The left side of the app is now for sharing and discussing, while the right side is for searching and consuming.
The idea is not completely new. The left side of the app has always been for chats with friends, and the right side has always been for brands. But before now, stories — the ephemeral, public photo and video posts that disappear after 24 hours — have been housed in their own tab to the right of the camera screen. The stories tab blended content from friends and brands, to sometimes confusing effect.
“Until now, social media has always mixed photos and videos from your friends with content from publishers and creators,” the company said in a blog post. “While blurring the lines between professional content creators and your friends has been an interesting internet experiment, it has also produced some strange side-effects (like fake news) and made us feel like we have to perform for our friends rather than just express ourselves.”
So how does Snap know who’s a friend, and who’s a brand? Either can create a Snapchat account, after all. Snap says it works like this: if an account follows you back, it’s considered a friend, and shows up on the left side of the app. If it doesn’t follow you back, it shows up on the Discover page.
Snap executives hope the reorganization will lead to more conversations between close groups of friends. In addition to separating people and brands, it’s creating a true algorithmic feed on the friends page for the first time. The company currently has a “best friends” algorithm that puts the people you engage with most at the top of your feed; the redesigned feed expands that to rank all of your friends by closeness. The more you chat with them and watch their stories, the higher in your feed they will rise.
There’s no more button for watching all the stories in your feed; instead, after you watch one, you’ll see an interstitial screen previewing the next story from one of your friends. You can either tap the screen to watch it or swipe it away to return to your chats. It marks a return, sort of, to auto-advancing stories, which Snap killed last October.
The move could have negative consequences for publishers, who are accustomed to their stories appearing in a central feed alongside stories from users’ friends, likely generating more views as a result. Publishers could begin following back their user bases en masse, but unless they start interacting with millions of accounts, they might show up lower in the feed than they would on the Discover page. Snap said it would release unspecified new tools to help creators profit from their work on the platform.
You can personalize your Discover page by subscribing and unsubscribing from what you see there. (There’s also a somewhat mysterious “see less like this” button that will show you less of ... whatever this is.)
On one hand, much of what you see in the new Snapchat represents a simple moving of furniture. But for Snap, the stakes are high. The company’s future depends on it becoming more accessible to a wider base of users, while retaining the core audience that uses it today. It’s a tricky puzzle — one that Twitter has been trying to pull off for years, with largely disappointing results.
Still, even Snapchat employees had begun to feel like the app’s design was confused. In their eyes, the new version represents the app’s core ideas at their most distilled. The question now is how large an audience those ideas will ultimately reach.


You’ve heard the myth that singing to your plants helps them grow better. Unless your singing sounds like a caterpillar chewing, your plant probably isn’t reacting. But serenading your plant could help its growth anyway, since you’re probably paying pretty good attention to your plant’s soil moisture and leaf health while you sing to it.
This mini sprinkler system waters your plant when you sing. So now you can concentrate on your plant’s health and happiness while the watering happens automatically. Plus, you get to perfect your cover of pajama-clad cover of “That’s What I Like.”
Ready to build your own sound-sensitive sprinkler system? Directions below.
Take apart your tuner and check it out. On the Korg CA40, there is a solder pad near the center LED that we can take advantage of. This solder pad is part of the trace that brings current to the LED. By hooking it up to the Photon, we should be able to detect and record when the tuner is trying to turn on that light — in other words, when we are singing in tune.
Cut 3 M-M jumper wires in half and strip the exposed ends. Solder the stripped end of one wire to the exposed solder pad. Wrap the exposed end of another wire around the negative terminal of the battery case and solder it, and do the same with another wire on the positive terminal.
Now it’s time to check out your aquarium pump. It’s possible that the ends of the wires here are already the right size to fit into your breadboard, but if you want a more snug or secure connection, this is a good time to extend each wire by soldering on a cut jumper wire. Wrap the exposed soldered spot with electrical tape or slide on some heat shrink to keep these spots from touching each other. Put some plastic tubing on the outflow valve of your aquarium pump and test it to make sure it works.
Set up your Photon and flash this code to your device...
...And wire it all together! Wiring image below.
Drop the aquarium pump into some water (making sure that no exposed wires go in the water) and clip one end of the aquarium tubing to a sturdy part of your plant or to your plant’s pot.
Sing to your plant!








When a big, years-in-the-making game finally releases, it’s common for staff to take an extended vacation. The grind of finishing up an ambitious project often involves plenty of late nights at the office, missing out on time with family, and little in the way of time off. For Hajime Tabata, who took over as director of the troubled Final Fantasy XV in 2013, the year leading up to launch was filled with many sleepless nights. “There is a sense that this is shortening my lifespan,” he told Polygon in 2015. “But it's all worth it."
The game had all the makings of a disaster. Over the course of its decade-long development, which began in 2006, FFXV changed names, platforms, and eventually directors. It went from a spinoff of the PS3 title Final Fantasy XIII to the next major standalone entry in the iconic series. Despite all of the turmoil, it proved to be a success both critically and commercially, reaching 6 million units sold faster than any game in the series before it. One year after launch, the game is still growing with multiple spinoffs, expansions, and updates, many of which are still to come.
The nights may not be as sleepless as they once were, but for Tabata, FFXV still consumes much of his time. “I took my family on a trip and was able to make up for last year,” he says. “However, we are still mastering up every few months, so we’re still busy and are constantly pressed for time.”
In some ways, Final Fantasy XV is a lot like previous entries in the long-running role-playing series. As one member of a quartet of best friends, you set out on a world-spanning road trip, equal parts epic fantasy adventure and buddy comedy. Swords and sorcery combine with a near-future setting, where characters can take selfies while riding giant chickens called chocobos into battle. But Final Fantasy XV is notable for the ways that it’s different from the rest of the series. That’s because Final Fantasy XV isn’t just a game: it’s become the center of a surprisingly vast, constantly changing universe.
That process started even before the game launched. Prior to Final Fantasy XV, Square Enix debuted an anime series that served as an introduction to the main cast of characters, and a feature-length CG movie that told a story concurrent with the events of the game. Meanwhile, the game’s creators have adopted a service model, with a steady stream of updates and expansions designed to keep players coming back. It’s an increasingly popular technique in the multiplayer space, where games like Overwatch and Destiny need to keep people engaged in order to maintain a steady base of players. But it’s a relatively novel approach for a typically single-player, narrative-focused experience like Final Fantasy.
FFXV’s updates have altered virtually every facet of the experience. There are the typical bug fixes and performance improvements, of course, but the team also created an entirely new version of the controversial chapter 13, a section of the game that many players felt dragged on while forcing them to give up their hard-earned powers and weapons. There have also been two standalone story expansions, as well as a massively multiplayer add-on called “Comrades,” that fills in a large gap in the story’s timeline. This month also saw the debut of a virtual reality fishing spinoff, Monster of the Deep, and there are upcoming versions of the game in the works for both PC and mobile.
For Tabata and his team, it’s been a new experience, and tackling so many different projects simultaneously proved to be a challenge. “We set up a plan to develop multiple [pieces of] content in parallel with each other, based on our experience developing the main game,” he explains. “However, it did prove to be difficult to develop efficiently, while also making sure we achieve the quality we want when dealing with the multiple projects.”
During a lavish press conference last March, series creator Hironobu Sakaguchi took to the stage to explain that he felt reassured about the future of Final Fantasy after learning about Tabata’s plans for the 15th installment. “The Final Fantasy I remember was constantly seeking new challenges, and never sitting comfortably in any given place,” he said at the time. That was before the game came out, of course. After he had a chance to see the final version, Sakaguchi had plenty of feedback for Tabata and his team. “I received both good comments from Sakaguchi-san, as well as feedback on items that he would like for us to look into in future projects. He talked a lot from the perspective of the future of Final Fantasy,” says Tabata, before adding with a laugh “I cannot disclose what we talked about, though.”
One particular challenge, he notes, is maintaining a sense of consistency while tuning each experience for its respective platform. The PC version features high-end visuals, for instance, while the mobile FFXV streamlines the experience with a more pronounced focus on story. “It goes without saying that we will offer the game on as many platforms as possible,” Tabata says. “And when we do that, we will make sure to offer a Final Fantasy XV that has characteristics that fits that platform.”
However, despite the game’s success, Tabata isn’t sure whether or not this kind of service model is something future games in the series will adapt. If there’s one constant in Final Fantasy, it’s change. Each new entry offers up a new world and characters, and drastic shifts are common, whether it’s the real-time gameplay of FFXII or the massively multiplayer structure of FFXIV. For Tabata, the service model offers just one of many potential directions for the series. “I feel that the future of the series will have more freedom and flexibility,” he says. “One thing I can say is that to release a game as a global AAA title, then continuing to push out content under a service model like Final Fantasy XV did, is extremely difficult to do.”
As for FFXV, there’s still plenty of work to be done. The third and final story expansion, “Episode Ignis,” is launching next month, while the mobile version is due out this year and the PC port is planned for early 2018. (That’s on top of the updates coming to the new multiplayer portion of the game.) There’s no definitive end in sight, and Tabata says he does “hope to try to continue offering services for as long as possible.”
When it comes to what’s next for the series, though, there’s a good chance he won’t be involved — at least for a while. The director has already said that his next project will be something completely new. There’s no indication on what that something may be, but it sounds ambitious. “I like to challenge myself to new things,” he explains. “I want to challenge the team and friends that experienced Final Fantasy XV together in creating a world that we have never seen, and creating a game that we have never seen.”


This week, the value of a single bitcoin officially cleared $10,000, a new high point that’s over an order of magnitude greater than its price at the start of this year. Bitcoin has defied market expectations before, but in 2017, it didn’t just become more valuable. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have become an acknowledged part of the financial system — albeit a nebulous one.
Bitcoin traded at around $960 at the beginning of the year, and it’s risen steadily since then, with a steep jump in the past two months. There are multiple, complementary explanations for this, but this latest boom was sparked partly by the CME Group, a futures marketplace that announced its intent to start listing bitcoin by the end of the year. It’s a stamp of approval that could help cement bitcoins’ position at other major financial institutions, many of which are already handling bitcoin-related trading in some capacity. Even JPMorgan Chase, whose CEO Jamie Dimon has said he would fire anyone who traded bitcoin, is reportedly considering a plan to let its clients access CME’s futures.
Not everyone believes that bitcoin is ready to enter the futures market. Themis Trading principal Joe Saluzzi warned that the currency is dangerously unregulated: “It reminds me of the financial crisis all over again,” he told CNBC. And bitcoin is so volatile that spending it doesn’t make sense. Nobody knows how valuable a single bitcoin might BECOME — while Thomas Glucksmann of currency exchange Gatecoin said $10,000 was still “cheap in my opinion,” bitcoin has also suffered extended catastrophic crashes, including a long slump after passing $1,000 in 2013. As an example of just how surreal bitcoin fluctuations can be, Gizmodo writer Kashmir Hill tweeted about buying a sushi dinner in 2013 for the equivalent of $99,000 today.
There are still places where bitcoin payments make sense, although they’re sometimes unsavory: far-right groups have used them after being dropped by payment processors, for instance. And the underlying blockchain technology has myriad uses that aren’t cryptocurrency-focused — from quickly processing international money transfers to tracking legal marijuana.
But people have also found uses for cryptocurrency that go beyond replacing cash. The best-known example of 2017 might be initial coin offerings or ICOs, in which companies sell digital tokens based on cryptocurrencies like Ethereum. ICOs range from serious fundraising efforts to absurd but startlingly successful jokes, and some have earned endorsements from the likes of Paris Hilton and Ghostface Killah of Wu-Tang Clan. And unlike Dogecoin or other earlier novelty currencies, they’ve attracted serious regulatory attention.
Some countries have outright banned ICOs — China barred the offerings as a form of “illegal public financing,” and South Korea announced “stern penalties” for running them. But other countries have attempted to clarify how existing rules apply to them. The US Securities and Exchange Commission ruled that some ICOs fell under securities law, setting them apart from general crowdfunding efforts. Japanese regulators also outlined how ICOs may fall under existing financial rules. In the US, the SEC has even issued guidance for how celebrities can hawk them.
Cryptocurrencies’ overall legal status is still complicated, but several countries have made major policy decisions around them in 2017. Some of these are negative: China shut down currency exchanges earlier this year, although traders have moved to other platforms, and the SEC rejected a high-profile application for a bitcoin stock fund. Many other countries have given more ambiguous signals. Russian president Vladimir Putin ordered regulators to develop a wide-ranging set of rules for miners and traders, even as officials have signaled a crackdown. India’s government launched a committee earlier this year to study digital currency regulation, and the Supreme Court recently urged it to speed up its work.
People have been prosecuted for cryptocurrency-related crimes like Ponzi schemes in past years, and governments have issued guidance about bitcoin. Some of these new decisions just raise new questions: the SEC, for instance, didn’t address how it would punish a decentralized network for violating securities rules. Likewise, getting attention from investors and regulators doesn’t tell us whether bitcoin will succeed in the long run, or whether cryptocurrencies will play a major role in most people’s lives. But even if cryptocurrencies aren’t directly competing with their traditional counterparts, the past year shows how serious they’ve become to both regulators and investors.


It’s been a long time coming, but Marvel has finally released the first teaser trailer for its upcoming superhero team-up to end all superhero team-ups, Avengers: Infinity War.
As the clip shows, Infinity War is shaping up to be one of Marvel’s biggest movies ever, uniting the Avengers, the Guardians of the Galaxy, and almost every other superhero Marvel has ever put on-screen in the 17 prior films over the last decade. All these heroes are banding together to face off against Thanos, the big bad that Marvel has been teasing since the post-credits scene of the first Avengers back in 2012.
Marvel first showed off a teaser all the way back in July at parent company Disney’s D23 Expo, and again at San Diego Comic-Con, but for the vast majority of fans who weren’t in the audiences at those events, the trailer marks the first look at the film.
Infinity War is set to be a major, game-changing film for Marvel — so big, in fact, that the story will spill over to a second, still-untitled Avengers movie set for release in 2019.
Along with the trailer, Marvel has also released the first poster for the movie, which doesn’t do much but remind viewers that yes, this is in fact an Avengers movie (although the design is a bit of a stylistic nod to the first teaser posters for the original Avengers and Age of Ultron).
Avengers: Infinity War will be arriving in theaters on May 4th, 2018.
Check out the new teaser poster for Avengers #InfinityWar. pic.twitter.com/Ef4XVpSpXe


Facebook has been steadily stealing Snapchat’s features and ideas for years and profiting from them. Whether it’s popular face filters, camera features, stories, or even messaging streaks, Facebook has lifted features from Snapchat and repurposed them without a care in the world. That complete lack of subtlety would make anyone angry, and Snap CEO Evan Spiegel is clearly letting off some steam in an op-ed published in Axios today.
In the op-ed, Spiegel argues that Snapchat’s algorithms are superior to Facebook’s reliance on friends. Referencing Facebook and its fake news problem (without actually naming Facebook), Spiegel describes social networks as “mindless scrambles for friends or unworthy distractions” and criticizes their role in fueling fake news. “Social media fueled ‘fake news’ because content designed to be shared by friends is not necessarily content designed to deliver accurate information,” says Spiegel.
Snap’s CEO even wants to separate Snapchat from being described as a social network altogether. “While many people view Snapchat as a social media service, it is primarily used to talk with friends – like visual texting,” says Spiegel. “Snapchat began as an escape from social media, where people could send photos and videos to their friends without the pressure of likes, comments, and permanence.”
Spiegel wants to focus Snapchat on personalizing stories creating by publishers in a different way to highlighting what your friends share. “The combination of social and media has yielded incredible business results, but has ultimately undermined our relationships with our friends and our relationships with the media,” explains Spiegel. “We believe that the best path forward is disentangling the two by providing a personalized content feed based on what you want to watch, not what your friends post.”
Snapchat is getting a big redesign to help with this new approach, and one that will separate social posts from ones provided by the media. Spiegel’s op-ed teases this redesign, while trying to convince publishers and Snapchat users that its new approach is better than Facebook and helps solve the fake news problem. We’ll have more details on the Snapchat redesign this morning, so we won’t have long to wait to see if this new design achieves its goals.


Bitcoin is now worth over $10,000. The cryptocurrency, which crossed the milestone for the first time since its creation in 2008, surged past $10,000 on Tuesday evening as it climbs toward $11,000, according to research site CoinDesk. Bitcoin has spiked 933 percent since the beginning of the year, when it traded at $968.23, reports the Wall Street Journal.
Despite concerns with Bitcoin’s association with criminal activities, investors have piled into the cryptocurrency recently as an alternative safe haven to more traditional assets like gold. The WSJ does note that though the surge in price has been substantial, it’s unlikely many investors have made a lot given that 75 percent of digital wallets (which are used to store cryptocurrencies) have less than 0.1 Bitcoin in them. Some critics warn that the surge may be indicative of a speculative bubble that may soon burst. At the time of publication Bitcoin was trading at $10,823, according to CoinDesk.
Bitcoin has a market value of $180 billion according to BitInfoCharts, a substantial amount that’s more than the value of General Electric. Rumors have abounded about who the mysterious creator — known only under the pseudonym of Satoshi Nakamoto — of the cryptocurrency is. The latest person to deny they’re Nakamoto was Elon Musk.



Microsoft is planning to release a photos companion app for iOS and Android devices, to quickly transfer pictures to a PC. The app will be available soon for Windows 10 testers, and it will support the quick transfer of photos or videos from phones to PCs on the same Wi-Fi network. Microsoft already offers a similar service through its OneDrive app, which will upload photos in the background on a phone and import them into the Photos app in Windows 10. This new app is designed for most people who don’t already backup their photos to OneDrive.
Italian blog Aggiornamenti Lumia spotted the new companion app, and reports that the Photos app in Windows 10 will also see some improvements, soon. Microsoft is rolling out premium content, including special effects, themes, and music to use in photos and videos. The software giant also appears to be working on stickers for photo stories, which include effects like hats, cars, dinosaurs, and text overlays. All of these features are currently in testing, and are expected to be made available to Windows Insiders in the coming months.
Microsoft has been focusing on a number of experiences between phones and PCs over the past year. After giving up on Windows Phone, Microsoft’s new mobile strategy is to make iOS and Android better. Microsoft is bringing tabs to every app in Windows 10 that will eventually sync to mobile phones, and a Timeline experience that lets you resume activities across devices. Microsoft’s Edge browser is even coming to iOS and Android, as the company continues to make its software and services available across all devices.


Microsoft is planning to overhaul its 500-acre campus in Redmond, Washington. The software giant will start a multi-year project next fall to create 18 new buildings, alongside new public spaces, transportation investments, and sports fields. Microsoft currently has 125 buildings at its campus, and once the project is complete this will rise to 131 buildings.
The updated campus will house 47,000 Microsoft employees that currently work at the company’s headquarters in Redmond, and allow for 8,000 more people. Microsoft is investing billions of dollars to redevelop it campus, and the company will tear down 12 old buildings to create the bigger 18 replacements. The development will take between five and seven years to complete, and includes a 2-acre open plaza that 2,000 people can fit inside.
Microsoft’s plans come shortly after Apple opened its new Apple Park campus earlier this year. Microsoft’s plans aren’t as audacious as a spaceship campus, but the company did recently unveil tree houses for its employees to host meetings 12 feet above ground. Microsoft’s big bet on Redmond also comes at a time when its Seattle cloud rival Amazon is looking elsewhere for its second headquarters. Amazon has fielded bizarre bets from cities desperate for the retail giant to build a campus outside of Seattle.


Essential founder and CEO Andy Rubin has taken a leave of absence from his new company for “personal reasons” following a report on the circumstances of his 2014 departure from Google. According to The Information, Rubin left Google shortly after an investigation found that he had maintained an “inappropriate relationship” with a woman who worked under him and filed a complaint to HR.
The nature of that relationship isn’t detailed in the report, and Rubin’s spokesperson Mike Sitrick denies the connection. “Any relationship that Mr. Rubin had while at Google was consensual,” Sitrick tells The Information. “Mr. Rubin was never told by Google that he engaged in any misconduct while at Google and he did not, either while at Google or since.” Rubin is said to have told Essential employees of his leave of absence on Monday after The Information informed Sitrick of its story.
The woman who filed the complaint reportedly worked in the Android division run by Rubin, which would make any personal relationship between the two violate Google policy; the company requires employees to disclose such relationships so that one of them can be moved to another division. Rubin left the Android department in March 2013 to lead Google’s efforts in robotics, but the HR investigation is said to have taken place in 2014. That investigation, according to The Information, concluded that “Rubin’s behavior was improper and showed bad judgement.”
Rubin founded Danger, the company behind the T-Mobile Sidekick, and co-founded Android before it was bought out by Google. Essential, his new company, is an attempt to build out an ecosystem of premium hardware products, but its first launch appears to have been a flop — the otherwise well-received Essential Phone has seen heavy discounts in recent weeks.
Essential confirmed that Rubin had stepped aside and said that Niccolo de Masi, Essential’s president, would be in charge for the time being. “At our last regularly scheduled board meeting earlier in November, Andy asked for a leave of absence to deal with personal matters,” an Essential spokesperson said. “The Board agreed and our President, Niccolo de Masi, will continue to run day to day operations at Essential.”
Update November 29th, 11:38AM ET: This story has been updated with comment from Essential.


It’s not a self-driving car, but its a car designed for the times when its not being driven. REDS is the alpha prototype for a new Chinese city car conceived by the provocative former BMW design chief Chris Bangle, whom The New York Times car design critic Phil Patton once described as among the most widely known and discussed automobile designers. The Verge had an exclusive look at REDS before its reveal at the Art Center College of Design, in Pasadena, California on the eve of the 2017 Los Angeles Auto Show. The car will be produced by REDSPACE, a new Chinese car company formed by the China Hi-Tech Group Corporation, a commercial manufacturer. It joins a growing number of carmakers launching in the burgeoning Chinese EV market, but that’s where the comparisons to other companies end.
REDS looks like nothing currently on the road. It has a boxy, cartoonish shape Bangle likens to Calvin & Hobbes. The windshield angles upward at an inverse proportion, wings jut out from its sides in the front section of the car and taper off on the rear, and a flat solar-paneled roof forms the shape of a lid. Inside, it resembles a compact apartment living room more than a typical car interior. The characters that inspired the visual language of REDS are straight from the children’s literary canon, a book that Bangle once read to his son and referenced throughout the design process: Richard Scarry’s Cars and Trucks and Things That Go. “When little kids draw cars, this is what they draw,” says Bangle in an interview with The Verge.
Beyond its looks, the guiding premise is what it does. “How one uses the space became the actual driving motif for the vehicle,” Bangle says. Bangle and his team focused on what happens in the car in the time it isn’t being driven, which on average is about 90 percent, he says. “We call it the 90/10 philosophy, meaning we prioritize the 90 percent of a car’s usage when it is not moving rather than the 10 percent when it is.” The car is not equipped with fully autonomous software. “Is the car self-driving? Right now, it is not, but if you think about what kind of cars we might want to have when they do become self-driving, probably this 90/10 philosophy is not a bad one to follow.”
For the immediate future, when plans for REDS move into production, it’s designed to address the challenges drivers face in congested Chinese cities.
“In the megacities in China, we learned that traffic is at a standstill there an awful lot,” Bangle says. “We found out that particularly young people don't have the same availability of private space to themselves that you might expect in other places.” Grappling with the concept in Chinese culture referred to as the “fourth space,” they began to think how the car could be used.  “There has emerged this idea in China of a ‘fourth space.’ They say that there is the one space that is your home, the one that is your office and then a third space that is often noted as being the social space — like coffee shops. This is what Starbucks is trying to be. It's the space where you meet other people. The fourth space is “your space”, a place you configure for your needs and even share when you want. This is REDS.”
What sets the REDS EV apart are two immediate prospects: its wild amorphous 2.97 meter form, only a bit larger than a Smart car that in motion seats four, or when idle, offers room for five, and the return of Bangle to car design, who oversaw all aspects of development through his Turin, Italy based consultancy.
Bangle, who graduated from the Art Center, has a prominent profile that sets him apart from others in the auto industry. He identifies as an artist and has shown his work in museums. In his 2002 TED Talk, he explained his philosophy that car design is an art form, which he said, “Cars are an avatar of yourself,” and described the design process as a collective journey in trust and creativity, a striking departure from the rigid corporate process favored by big car companies. Bangle, who led BMW’s car design program at the time, occupies a unique identity in the history of automotive design. He was known for taking chances, breaking the mold, and sometimes alienating performance car traditionalists in the process. During an era where many car shapes were banal, Bangle’s team helped infuse discussions about shapes and forms that shook up the industry from the X Coupé concept to the infamous rear haunches on the trunk of 2001 BMW E65 7 Series to the grand slam resurrection of the Mini brand for BMW. Before BMW, he also led the design departments at Fiat and designed for General Motor’s German Opel subsidiary.
Shortly after leaving BMW, he launched Chris Bangle Associates, a design consultancy that opened up new ways to apply his 30 years of experience designing cars to other mediums from super yachts, to Japanese spaceships, to Samsung products.
“When I left BMW, I didn't say I was leaving the car business,” Bangle says, “but I did say I was leaving belonging to an OEM, an original equipment manufacturer, a brand like BMW was. I didn't want to go back into a major brand for many reasons.”
Bangle was no longer interested in designing exterior shapes and forms to stretch the boundaries of a new vehicles prospectus, but longed to turn his attention to solving other design challenges.
Mr. Wang Jinan, Assistant President of CHTC Group, Chairman of CHTC Motor approached Bangle about the project in 2014. “They are a company that deals with industry and industrial vehicles and products, but not necessarily cars,” Bangle says. “They hadn't built cars yet, but they're used to high-end technology. They asked if I would help them create a whole new vehicle for a very particular situation. They were very interested in trying to resolve the megacity problem for people in China, where electric vehicles are really the best alternative and they are the future. They wanted a vehicle which specifically addressed what happens to people in big cities.” When he told Mr. Wang he wanted to call it REDS, Mr. Wang coined the acronym “Revolutionary Electric Dream Space.”
Bangle brought in a former BMW colleague Swantje Rössner, who designed interiors for the BMW 7 Series and the X5 to work with his small team. For the exterior lead, he called on former Mazda advanced designer Atsuhiko Yamada.
The design process started with making a car roughly the size of a Smart ForTwo car, and focused on the prospect of maximizing interior space to accommodate a small group of people and storage. The team imagined how to make small car into a space suited for relaxation, which led to a seat configuration that feels more like parts of a Lego build. The driver’s seat swivels around a folding steering wheel and the passenger seats slide and swap positions to make more legroom, designed to make a city car feel like a home office, entertainment center, or even a nursery. “You don't have to break your neck to crane around and talk to the person next to you,” Bangle says of the seat configuration. “It’s important when you want to deal with your baby on the seat behind you. When you've parked and your child is still asleep and you don't want to wake the baby up. You have a space for yourself to deal with something, read a book, write a paper, work on your computer.”
Bangle says the REDS car is also comfortable — though we have yet to lounge in this work of vehicular Tetris.
“This is the first car I think you can actually say it has a wrap-around rear loveseat.” It also includes a built-in foot massage in the floor and a red carpet that rolls out onto the sidewalk for dramatic effect.
Traffic at a standstill means time for relaxation in REDS, which has a 17-inch screen that can be used for gaming or movies. “When you're normally driving, it sticks up about one third of its height and that's where you see all the information about driving, the navigation and the speed and all that kind of stuff. When the car is stopped, it comes all the way up to its full height,” Bangle says.
The high sloping windshield is the most eye-catching element of the exterior, which Bangle says minimizes exposure to direct sunlight and keeps the car cool. It also introduces “Cartesian” sliding doors, and a roof that extends to block the rain. REDS is made of aluminum, a lightweight material, which enhances performance. He worked with a team of Italian engineers near his studio. “As far as I can tell from where we are in our performance data, it will not only have excellent range, but it will also have really excellent acceleration.”
Though it looks like a far off concept, Bangle says it’s moving toward production and will be outfitted with contemporary safety systems to make it applicable to current road conditions. “It will have top-of-the-line electronics and safety systems both passive and active that the people today consider proper and necessary for driving a car,” Bangle says.
Bangle has never been one to shy away from being different. Today his once polarizing contributions are now celebrated. Chris Harris described Bangle’s legacy in Jalopnik: “This is why Chris Bangle was right and we were wrong: because his brand revolution now resonates outside the car-world, and that is unusual. Normally the car industry copies ideas from other, more radical corners of the industrial map, but in the paradigm shifts being undertaken by so many famous brands you see the Bangle effect.”
What Bangle and his team grasp is how to create forms that make an impression, and express purpose. Another key element of REDS is its decidedly cute appearance — and that’s intentional, too. Bangle’s process is reflected in this proposition that is three years in the making. “The experience that we have in the car business is that if you present people with just an unusual shape, it takes them a while to get a hold of it. This is not always a good selling argument. There has to be another compelling reason of, 'I want to have this car.' The best reason to want something in the car business is because of its character.”
Harkening back to Richard Scarry’s worldview of the automobile is to tempt the beholder with an expression of childlike whimsy, and create a sense of openness to change. In China, where EVs are primed to transform the landscape, REDS is making a scene-stealing entrance.






In shocking news, Marvel’s new editor-in-chief, C.B. Cebulski, admitted today that he masqueraded as a Japanese person for a year writing comics under the pseudonym “Akira Yoshida,” as first reported by Bleeding Cool, and then picked up by Vulture. Under the name Yoshida, Cebulski wrote Marvel comics featuring Wolverine, Thor, and Kitty Pryde in stories set in Japan and having to do with martial arts from 2005 to 2006.
The con began when Cebulski needed to establish a writing career while still at Marvel. He started out with smaller gigs like writing “Conan and the Demons of Khitai” for Dark Horse Comics and then got noticed and hired by another Marvel editor.
Doing so violated Marvel’s ethics policy against letting editors write or draw comic books but by using the name Yoshida, Cebulski was able to skirt this rule while seemingly adding a layer of authenticity to telling Japanese-influenced stories. Marvel even boasted of this appearance of diversity, saying that it was uncommon for a non-Anglophone writer to succeed in the US.
Cebulski also presented a fake backstory as Akira Yoshida when interviewed by CBR, claiming to have grown up in Japan and the US and to have worked for Fujimi Shobo, a Tokyo-based publisher. In reality, Cebulski himself has family in Japan, has lived there before and now resides in Shanghai, China. A few months later, Yoshida disappeared — Cebulski ditched the name and then became a talent scout for Marvel in 2007 under his real name soon after. Rumors circulated around, especially as Johnston prodded Marvel editors, including Cebulski, about whether Yoshida really existed.
A 2015 post by Brian Cronin debunking Marvel urban legends found that several editors had never spoken with Yoshida before, which suggested that the rumor was true, but Marvel editor Mike Marts then claimed that he had lunch with Yoshida who showed him a Godzilla memorabilia collection. That man was a visiting Japanese translator and not the fictional Yoshida, according to Johnston, which leads us to the troubling fact that the editors couldn’t tell the difference.
Then in July this year, a former Marvel editor released a podcast short story vaguely about the comics books giant, with all the names changed around, calling C.B. Cebulski, C.J. Cregg, for the West Wing character. It hinted at the Akira Yoshida pseudonym and started the rumors swirling again until Cebulski admitted the hoax to Bleeding Cool today.
What’s also troubling is that Cebulski so far appears unaccountable for his masquerade. The current Marvel editor-in-chief confessed to executives internally that he was Yoshida and told Johnston today that, “this is all old news that has been dealt with.” The timing of his more public confession this time around is coincidental with Cebulski’s first day as Marvel head.
A report by The Hollywood Reporter when Cebulski’s promotion was first announced last week noted how the man had few writing credentials to his name. Now we know why.


Grindr announced new updates today to its gay dating app on iOS and Android that are designed to make its social network feel more inclusive of transgender users. The app will now include more gender-neutral terms, and it’s getting an identity section on user profiles that includes options for gender and pronouns. Importantly, users can also write in their gender identity if it’s not on the list and specify pronouns that also might not be listed. Additionally, gender-neutral language is used across the app, and there’s now an FAQ explaining trans issues.
Gender options listed include “trans man,” “woman,” “cis man,” “non-binary,” “non-conforming,” and “queer.” The options are meant to make it easier for users to express their identities without having to constantly explain and answer other users’ questions.
The changes come as a direct result of Grindr conducting a survey with thousands of existing users of the app who are transgender. Transgender users gave feedback to app developers saying that their non-trans peers didn’t know how to speak respectfully about transgender issues.
“We created written resources linked from the gender identity fields in the profile to answer cis users’ questions and decrease that burden on trans people,” Grindr director of equality Jack Harrison-Quintana said in an emailed statement.




Google’s Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL phones haven’t had the smoothest of launches, with screen issues, quality control problems, and audio bugs in some units. Fortunately, Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL users will have one less thing to worry about soon, as Google has announced that it has identified a problem causing the phones to randomly reboot. It will be issuing a fix “in the coming weeks,” according to Android Police. That could come either bundled as part of a monthly security update (which sometimes include Pixel fixes) or a future Android software release.
The bug was reported on both Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL devices, and according to various forum threads, it resulted in the phones rebooting seemingly at random. So, if you’ve been experiencing this on your own devices, at least you can take solace in the fact that Google has figured out what’s wrong and will be fixing it soon.
And while it’s no doubt frustrating that these issues continue to crop up on what are supposed to be flagship phones, at least Google is continuing to do its best to fix problems as they continue to pop up.


Federal judge William Alsup delayed the upcoming trial between Uber and Waymo because the ride-hailing company withheld key evidence during the discovery process. Waymo, the self-driving car company that was spun out of Google, sued Uber in February for allegedly stealing key parts of its autonomous vehicle technology.
The evidence in question is a 37-page memo from ex-Uber security analyst Ric Jacobs that was written to the company’s legal team. The letter states that Uber’s “Marketplace Analytics” team existed for the sole purpose of “acquiring trade secrets, code base,” and other intelligence from competitors including Waymo, according to Gizmodo. The letter also describes concern over clandestine practices performed by Uber, such as using “non-attributable” devices and self-destructing chat apps like Wickr that helped hide communications about these practices. (Uber was previously found to be using Wickr when it was caught investigating its legal foes in 2016.)
Jacobs, who was fired by Uber in April, took the stand at a hearing Tuesday in San Francisco to answer questions about the letter. He contradicted some of the claims made in it, including the specific mention of knowledge of stealing from Waymo. Jacobs’ disagreements reportedly come from the fact that he didn’t fully read the letter before his legal team sent it.
He added that he reached a settlement with Uber after his firing, and that he has agreed not to disparage the company in the press or public. But Jacobs made other claims during his time on the stand that could damage Uber’s defense in the Waymo lawsuit.
The suit centers around the alleged theft of thousands of documents by former Google self-driving engineer Anthony Levandowski. Shortly after Levandowski left Google, he founded Otto, a self-driving truck startup. Otto was eventually acquired by Uber. Waymo’s lawyers have argued that Uber wound up with those allegedly stolen files and merely masqueraded the process as an acquisition.
Jacobs testified that Uber established these shadow communications channels and practices in order to protect the company from potential litigation. He also testified that Ed Russo, who works for Uber’s Strategic Services Group, bragged about using these communication methods to set up secret meetings between CEOs of a “big” and “small” company around this time. He also testified that this Strategic Services Group had two "off the books" employees working on the company’s self-driving car unit.
The letter from Jacobs was reportedly shared with Alsup last week by the US Department of Justice. It was apparently collected by the US attorneys’ office earlier this year as part of one of the many ongoing criminal investigations into Uber’s business practices. Waymo asked Alsup Monday to delay the case in light of the letter’s surfacing, and argued that Uber intentionally withheld and destroyed evidence related to the letter.
The in-house counsel that Jacobs’ letter was addressed to, Angela Padilla, testified Tuesday that the company had used approved search terms to search for any documents related to the trial. She had previously testified that the company looked “everywhere” for evidence to include in the discovery process.
“I can no longer trust the words of the lawyers for Uber in this case,” Alsup said at today’s hearing. “We’re going to have to put the trial off because if even half of what’s in that letter is true it would be a huge injustice to force Waymo to go to trial.”
“We have to get more to the bottom of this shadow system Uber set up,” Alsup reportedly added. It’s clear, he said, that the “real stuff goes on the shadow system.”
The trial was slated for December 4th, but no new date has been set. The jury duty process has been canceled for now.



This year’s Cyber Monday was the biggest sales day for online and for mobile ever in the US. Online sales brought in $6.59 billion in total, while sales on mobile broke a new record by reaching $2 billion. Mobile also dominated over desktop for the first time for Shopify merchants, which include brands as varied as Tesla Motors and Kylie Cosmetics, according to the company.
Part of this is because retailer apps and mobile wallet services have made it easier than ever to shop on your iPhone or Android device, Business Insider reports. Seventy-five percent of millennials were more likely to shop on their smartphones than on computers, according to Adobe Analytics data.
The top-selling items of Cyber Monday included Google Chromecasts, Roku devices, Apple iPads, Samsung Tablets, Apple AirPods, and Sony PlayStation VR headset core systems. Super Mario Odyssey was the best-selling video game, and the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One X were the most popular consoles.
While Amazon kept actual numbers out of its post-Cyber Monday press statement, it did say that it sold millions of Alexa-enabled devices over the long weekend and that the Echo Spot has sold out, while the Echo Dot performed the best at Whole Foods stores in the US.
Cyber Monday’s online sales numbers are second only to Alibaba’s Singles Day’s numbers mainly in China. The festival-driven holiday invented by Alibaba falls on November 11th, and it raked in $25.3 billion this year, which is bigger than Black Friday and Cyber Monday combined.





There’s a major flaw in Apple’s macOS High Sierra operating system that allows anyone with physical access to a Mac to gain system administrator access without so much as entering a password. Late Tuesday, Apple confirmed that it’s working on a software update to fix the issue and published step-by-step instructions to help customers protect their machines in the meantime.
The vulnerability was publicly disclosed on Twitter this afternoon; it’s not clear whether the problem was privately reported to Apple ahead of time, which is the encouraged practice when security vulnerabilities are uncovered. (The company maintains an invite-only bug bounty program.) Despite its incredibly alarming simplicity, The Verge is not reproducing the steps to bypass High Sierra’s login screen here. It does not affect Sierra or other previous macOS versions.
However, The Verge has been able to confirm the major security issue remains present as of MacOS 10.13.1, the current release of High Sierra. When the problem is exploited, the user is authenticated into a “System Administrator” account and is given full ability to view files and even reset or change passwords for pre-existing users on that machine. Apple ID email addresses tied to users on the Mac can be removed and altered, as well. There are likely many more ways that someone taking advantage of the issue could wreak havoc on a Mac desktop or laptop.
The level of unbridled access this security hole permits — and it abruptly being made public — will almost certainly prompt Apple to move fast in releasing an update for its Mac operating system. The company hasn’t yet provided a release timeframe for that update.
Until that happens, the best way to protect your Mac against the issue reported today is by ensuring that you’ve set a root password. To do that, go to System Preferences > Users & Groups > Login Options > Join > Open Directory Utility > Edit pulldown menu. Enable the Root User if you haven’t already and then choose Change Root Password. (Thanks, dyavuz!)
The Verge has reached out to Apple for further details.


Expensify is a popular app that helps employees quickly submit reports for business-related expenses. Expensify’s standout feature is its SmartScan OCR, or optical character recognition, technology. The feature saves data-entry time by scanning your receipt, verifying that the expense is compliant with your employer’s rules, and then organizing it into an expense report — all automatically. When the technology fails, however, Expensify says it has a team of secure technicians to intervene behind the scenes. But Twitter users grew concerned after the discovery of several Expensify receipts on Amazon’s Mechanical Turk service last week.
Mechanical Turk is a crowdsourcing marketplace where anyone can post tasks that need completing for small sums of money. Twitter user Rochelle found receipts hosted on Expensify.com that were visible on the platform, complete with details about names, dates, addresses, and signatures. One receipt apparently showed Uber pickup and drop-off locations.
Cool, I just went browsing through @expensify's jobs on MTurk. found boarding passes, hotel receipts (name, dates, details), medical receipts, addresses, signatures, and a whole lot of burgers and burritos.I also just turned off SmartScan, because that's super creepy. https://t.co/VVJ522Xw2V
In a blog post, the company says those receipts were part of testing its new Private SmartScan feature that allow companies to staff their own team of Mechanical Turk transcribers. Expensify said that it started live testing the system on September 20th, with the initial testing only using Expensify employee receipts. On November 15th, the company began processing 10 percent of non-paying user receipts that require human review on Turk, but access was still limited to its own SmartScan agents. It then opened up access to the receipts to all vetted Turk workers on November 22nd. A day later, after Twitter users voiced their concern, the company stopped the test and returned all the receipts to private SmartScan agents.
“The only users who can access receipts are the Mechanical Turk workers. The only way to access the worker interface (to view receipts) is to be a worker,” Expensify CEO David Barrett said in an interview with The Verge. Turk workers are thoroughly vetted by Amazon, and Barrett says during the 24 hours, hundreds of receipts from three users were open to all of the Turk workers, compared to the routine millions it usually handles.
Expensify says Private SmartScan will allow companies to have better control over who views the receipts processed. The Private SmartScan feature is in early stages of testing though and it won’t be available until sometime next year, and only to customers on the company’s Enterprise Plan. The discovery caused some Expensify users to disable the SmartScan feature in the app, making the expense report service much less useful. “We take our privacy very seriously as a financial company, privacy is an extremely important thing, and so security and privacy are the bedrock of our company,” Barrett said.


In a bid to encourage more users to privately message one another, Instagram today announced a new feature it’s calling “remixing.” The process involves editing a friend’s photo sent to you via direct message with stickers and custom text and doodles, and then sending it back to them within another photo of yourself.
That way, you can make it seem like your friend’s selfie is part of your own staged scene, giving your friend free rein to make you look as goofy or compromised as possible. You can also control how many times the message can be viewed by your friends by choosing between “one view” or “allow replay” options when sending. The update is live now, Instagram says.
If that sounds confusing, that’s because it is. But visually, you can see what the app maker is going for here:
You can probably already see all the playful chaos you can cause with such a feature when applied with a more adult-themed mindset. I mean, we live in a world where a US Navy pilot drew a giant penis using the exhaust clouds of his aircraft this month. I shudder to think of the kind of vandalism close friends may be willing to subject one another to in the privacy of their Instagram DM chats.
Still, perhaps I’m expecting the worst out of what may amount to a relatively harmless feature. Maybe people will really draw goofy neon light sunglasses on their friends’ faces, or share their colorful, tropical-themed drinks and never pull pranks on each other using unfettered access to doodling tools and a perfectly innocent photograph. What a world that would be.


The 2018 Grammy Award nominations were released this morning, and certain categories looked markedly more diverse in their selections. “Despacito” became the first Spanish-language song to be nominated for Record of the Year and Song of the Year, every lead artist nominated for Record of the Year was a person of color, and the list for best Album of the Year did not contain a single white male artist for the first time in Grammy history. (Sorry, Ed Sheeran.) In short, the nominations are incredibly diverse. Even Recording Academy CEO Neil Portnow noticed, telling Billboard it’s "a wonderful reflection on our organization and how relevant and in touch and savvy our voting members are."
So, how did this happen? A switch to digital voting and a revamp of the Grammy online platform are likely large contributing factors. Grammy nominees are decided by voting members: music industry professionals who have creative or technical credits on at least six commercial tracks on a physical music release, or 12 on a digital album. They’re not just label bigwigs. They’re songwriters, touring artists, and engineers. And, there’s only about 13,000 of them. So we discussed how these changes could have such a dramatic impact on the current crop of Grammy nominees.
Micah Singleton: Back in June, the The Grammys finally switched to online voting, allowing more of their 13,000-member voting block to participate. If you’re a touring artist or a successful producer or songwriter, chances are you aren’t sitting at home waiting for a ballot to come in the mail, which is how the Grammys have been run up until this year. Now that more people have the ability to vote, we see the results: a far more diverse field than ever, especially in the top categories. Dani, you’re a new member of the Recording Academy. How have the changes affected you?
Dani Deahl: Micah, you were actually the one who pushed me to apply and become a Grammy voting member! Once my application was accepted, I realized just how much opportunity there is for voting members to make a difference. There’s only around 13,000 of us deciding who gets these very important awards. I also wasn’t aware until you told me that this was the first year voting members could cast votes online. Since many voting members are on the road much of the time, I can imagine it would be a major hassle to make your voice heard. Do you think the Academy saw online voting as a way to diversify, or was it simply catching up with technology?
MS: I think it was both. It seems like The Academy got tired of the constant backlash after the less-than-diverse group of winners that emerged nearly every year. A hip-hop artist hasn’t won Album of the Year in 13 years (Outkast), and a black woman hasn’t won since 1999 (Lauryn Hill), despite the existence of Beyoncé, Rihanna, Alicia Keys, Solange, and a host of other black women who have released great albums. Even SZA, whose album Ctrl was my favorite in 2017, didn’t get an Album of the Year nomination, so there’s still a ways to go.
A reminder that a black woman hasn’t won album of the year in nearly 20 years despite the existence of Beyoncé, Mariah, Solange, Alicia, Rih
Online voting also means that the artists, songwriters, and producers who are on the road creating musical culture can vote with ease. Imagine if you were able to vote in the presidential election online, instead of having to stand in line or mail a ballot in. The turnout would skyrocket, and the same is true for the Grammys. They removed the roadblocks to vote, and the first outcome of the new system makes me optimistic.
DD: In practice, what you’re describing with the paper votes prevented or discouraged a lot of people from voting, and they weren’t usually the most established members of the industry. Also, Grammy VP Bill Freimuth said there were a lot of other problems with paper ballots, aside from the inconvenience of mailing them. Ballots were often filled out incorrectly, or members would vote in categories where they weren’t authorized. “This way the software will not let them submit incorrectly,” Freimuth told Variety. “Finally, on the same site, voters will be able to listen to or watch all of the nominated recordings or videos, or look at the nominees for package design. It makes for more informed voting on the whole, than voting based on name recognition and popularity and charts and things like that.”
Previously, you had to find the material you were voting on… on your own? Who’s got time for that? No one! Most people probably voted based on the small range of music they’d already heard, or names they recognized. How much has this new system corrected things? Do this year’s nominees more closely reflect the albums that are “the best” as opposed to previous years?
MS: I don’t think moving to online voting changed how people vote; it just made some people’s votes carry less weight, in a sense. Now someone who doesn’t listen to rap or someone who doesn’t know rock music won’t necessarily have an outsized influence on the genre, if the people who are knowledgeable have more access. And sure, you could say members always had the ability to vote, but they didn’t do it in the past. This year’s nominations are the clearest indicator of that. Childish Gambino got nominated for Album of the Year, and deservedly so. But do you think a part-funk, part neo-soul album from a rapper stood a chance of garnering the highest nomination last year? I don’t.
There have been so many misses, most notably for Album of the Year, over the past decade, and this is the first time it doesn’t feel like there was a major oversight (besides Ctrl). That’s progress. The final results may be a different story, but we won’t find out until the Grammys in January.
Let’s talk about white men. How shocked are you that this is the first time in history a white man hasn’t been nominated for Album of the Year?
DD: I’m shocked, and also… not shocked? Every time something like this happens there’s this duality in my head of “wow, this is amazing!” and also “wow, this just happened now?” There is such weight in seeing people you identify with get recognized at the highest level. Some might think the Grammys don’t mean much, but they are absolutely influential and a reflection of culture. They make careers.
Notice anything about the 2018 Grammy nominations for album of the year?Childish Gambino: Awaken, My LoveJay Z: 4:44Kendrick Lamar: DamnLorde: MelodramaBruno Mars: 24K MagicThis is the FIRST TIME EVER no white guys have been nominated. EVER.#GRAMMYs #GrammyNominations
I’m so used to seeing lists of nominees for all awards populated by white men, so Album of the Year was striking to me right away. Also, it’s not about not seeing white men as much as it is about seeing different groups of people get accolades for their work — people who might have been overlooked before. The voting members aren’t shadowy figures pulling strings behind a curtain. Sure, some members are very powerful people in the industry, but a lot of them are like me: musicians who tour and have singles and live the late nights, early flights lifestyle.
It was relatively easy for older executives and producers to vote in the previous system, but not so for someone like me. Now, the people actually contributing to cultural change the most — touring musicians, new producers and songwriters, etc. — have access to participate in ways that were never there before. This year’s list is a direct reflection of that. When you make a system easier for everyone to use, everyone wins.


Hulu has been steadily rolling out its new UI and live TV service to a whole bunch of platforms since it was first announced in May. Next up: Samsung’s smart TVs, as spotted by Multichannel.
All of Samsung’s most recent 2017 models are getting the update, which should be automatically waiting for users the next time they use the bundled Hulu app. Now, Samsung’s smart TV join the Apple TV, Xbox One, iOS, Android, Chromecast, Amazon’s Fire TV and Fire Stick, the 12-year old Xbox 360, and even the Nintendo Switch in offering the app.
The lone holdout is still, of course, Sony’s PlayStation consoles, which have been updated to the new UI. But due to Sony’s own competing PlayStation Vue over-the-top TV service, they don’t have access to Hulu’s live TV service — something that will likely remain the case for the foreseeable future.


As part of Giving Tuesday, Google has added a new Donate button to its knowledge graph when you search for recognized nonprofit organizations. The Donate button allows you to directly contribute money to nonprofits when searching for them on the web, though the organization also has to enroll with Google for the button to appear. (I checked through large organizations like the American Red Cross, UNICEF, Planned Parenthood, and Feed The Children, but did not find the buttons available yet.)
Unlike Facebook’s Charitable Givings feature that has gotten popular with users who “donate” their birthdays to fundraising, Google does not charge a fee when donations are made through its button. (Facebook charges 5 percent for donations made within the US.) However, for Giving Tuesday, Facebook says it is working with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to match up to $2 million in donations, and it will waive the usual 5 percent fee for contributions made this on its platform today. Facebook is also expected to hold a Social Good Forum in New York City on Wednesday, where CEO Mark Zuckerberg will be in attendance.
According to Google, about 30 percent of charitable donations occur during the holiday season. Its hopes are that the new donate button makes it easier for online shoppers to consider giving, though it is currently live for US-based charities at this time. In the past, the company has added a similar function during natural disasters so those reading news alerts can be prompted to contribute.


The Federal Communications Commission put out a final proposal last week to end net neutrality. The proposal opens the door for internet service providers to create fast and slow lanes, to block websites, and to prioritize their own content. This isn’t speculation. It’s all there in the text.
But a new “fact sheet” sent out by the FCC today asks: what if facts are flexible things that we can bend to our preferred reality? It lists a series of “myths” about the commission’s proposal, followed by “facts” that supposedly debunk them — except the facts are often wrong, or directly confirm the myth that they’re trying to debunk.
Here are some of the most flagrant examples.
Let’s start with this one:
MYTH:  This will result in “fast lanes” and “slow lanes” on the internet that will worsen consumers’ online experience.
FACT:  Restoring internet freedom will lead to better, faster, and cheaper broadband for consumers and give startups that need priority access (such as telehealth applications) the chance to offer new services to consumers.
Note that the “fact” never states that fast and slow lanes won’t be created. And the new services it mentions are just fast and slow lanes for specific applications.
If you read carefully, you’ll notice the FCC isn’t even trying to debunk the creation of fast and slow lanes. It’s just trying to debunk that they “will worsen consumers’ online experience.” That’s a matter of opinion, and clearly, we all know which side the FCC lands on.
The commission makes several similar admissions elsewhere in the “fact sheet,” where it ends up proving what it set out to debunk. This one’s a bit longer, but it’s among the more absurd parts of the list:
MYTH:  Internet service providers will block you from visiting the websites you want to visit.
FACT:  Internet service providers didn’t block websites before the Obama Administration’s heavy-handed 2015 internet regulations and won’t after they are repealed. Any internet service provider would be required to publicly disclose this practice and would face fierce consumer backlash as well as scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission, which will have renewed authority to police unfair, deceptive, and anticompetitive practices.
The FCC is trying to repeal a rule that stops ISPs from blocking websites, so the commission absolutely can’t guarantee internet providers won’t do that when the rules are gone. But despite saying this “won’t” happen, the answer goes on to say, okay, maybe ISPs will block sites. But hey, people will get mad about it!
The FCC even acknowledges here that consumers have a strong preference for an open internet. Which, again, is the thing the FCC’s new proposal would stop protecting.
The “fact sheet” also says repealing net neutrality will “promote consumers’ online privacy,” when the reality is that the FCC passed stricter privacy rules than what consumers will receive without net neutrality.
On a really technical level, the FCC is correct here. The commission’s privacy rules were struck down by Congress earlier this year, so there aren’t any privacy rules in place at the moment. But that happened, in part at least, thanks to the current FCC chairman’s campaign against them.
Had those rules been kept in place, consumers would have been covered by much stricter privacy protections than what the Federal Trade Commission will guarantee. That’s because the FTC mostly has privacy guidelines — not strict rules — whereas the FCC was able to define specific behaviors that are unacceptable.
Without net neutrality, privacy enforcement will go back to the FTC’s broader approach.
The FCC’s big argument against net neutrality is that the policy is hurting investment in broadband networks, thus slowing the expansion of nationwide internet access. And if you only look at the numbers cable companies give you, that would appear to be true. The commission says “broadband investment has fallen for two years in a row — the first time that’s happened outside of a recession in the Internet era.”
But it’s looking at numbers provided by USTelecom, a telecom lobbying group. And it’s looking at them quite narrowly, too, only between 2009 and 2014 for comparison.
If you take a broader view, it’s clear that broadband investment had already been declining before net neutrality was put in place. Business Insider’s Steve Kovach asked the commission about this last week, and a senior FCC official declined to elaborate. The FCC doesn’t provide any further detail here either.
The stories that ISPs tell their investors is also very different from the stories they tell the FCC. And while there have been measurable dips in investment, it’s partly due to things like acquisitions and oil prices (something even the telecom industry admits).
But the true absurdity of this list goes back to the questions like this:
MYTH:  Broadband providers will charge you a premium if you want to reach certain online content.
FACT:  This didn’t happen before the Obama Administration’s 2015 heavy-handed Internet regulations, and it won’t happen after they are repealed.
The simple fact is, internet providers will be able to do this once the net neutrality rules are repealed, and the FCC is well aware of that. The commission simply can’t make this statement while simultaneously removing the rule that prevents this type of behavior.
What the commission is arguing here is that, because something didn’t happen in the past, it therefore won’t happen in the future. But that’s not how anything works. And there’s a good argument to make that, because the FCC is explicitly giving ISPs the thumbs-up on this stuff, it’s more likely to happen than ever.
In fact, we’re already starting to see this happen. AT&T and Verizon, among others, are running zero-rating schemes that advantage their own content. As more and more consolidation happens, ISPs will be incentivized to go further, bundling content and providing free or faster data to make sure their own programs are the most watched. That means consumers could end up paying a premium to escape from their walled gardens.
If the FCC really wanted to guarantee that ISPs can’t charge tolls to access content, prioritize certain sites and services, and create fast and slow lanes, then it wouldn’t repeal net neutrality. Instead, it’s created a wildly misleading “fact sheet” to tell Americans it’s all going to be okay.


Google CEO Sundar Pichai promised to look into the great cheeseburger emoji debate, and he's made good on his word. Apparently Android 8.1 ships with a new and improved cheeseburger emoji in which the cheese is placed atop the patty, as opposed to underneath it. Emojipedia first spotted the fix.
Google previously pictured the cheese at the bottom of the sandwich, which we can all agree is incorrect. But it wasn't until someone named Thomas Baekdal called the emoji out in October that the world woke up to this extremely incorrect cheeseburger depiction.
I think we need to have a discussion about how Google's burger emoji is placing the cheese underneath the burger, while Apple puts it on top pic.twitter.com/PgXmCkY3Yc
Although Google has now realized the proper way to make a cheeseburger, the company did also create its emoji IRL. It served an "Android Burger" to employees earlier this month with the cheese melted onto the bottom bun. I don't know how it tasted.
Lunch at Google today: an "Android Burger"   pic.twitter.com/I4dwOUPASg
There are still some slight variations in emoji cheeseburgers. Samsung, for example, layers the sandwich as tomato, cheese, lettuce, and then the patty, whereas Apple depicts its emoji as having tomato, cheese, patty, and then lettuce. Google seems to be  on the right track here with its lettuce on top. This is proper. This is how we make a cheeseburger, and I'm thrilled Google has learned.


Amazon today announced that third-party developers will be able to make use of the Alexa assistant’s voice recognition feature to personalize apps for its line of Echo speakers. The news, announced at Amazon’s re:Invent conference in Las Vegas and reported first by TechCrunch, builds on the company’s announcement in October that Alexa can now identify individual users’ voices to personalize responses.
Until today, that recognition feature only worked for Amazon-built services like shopping lists, flash briefing news updates, and Amazon Music, among other built-in skills. Starting some time in early 2018, however, developers will be able to tap into those voice-based profiles to make apps more personalized to various members of a household. This will put Amazon on par with rival Google in the smart home and digital assistant fields. Google launched multi-user support using voice recognition back in April and later on added the ability for developers to tap into this data for third-party apps.
In addition to announcing voice recognition for third-party apps, Amazon also revealed today at re:Invent that it’s bringing Alexa notifications on Echo speakers to a wider pool of developers starting today. The feature was first announced earlier this year before it entered a private beta testing period in September. Now, Amazon says Alexa notifications are ready for broader availability.
The notifications, which are opt-in only on the user end, combine an audio cue — typically some type of chime and spoken alert courtesy of Alexa — with a blueish green light change on the Echo speaker ring to signify an app notification. Users can then hear the notification with either a physical tap on the speaker or an audio command like, “Alexa, what did I miss?,” according to TechCrunch. Existing Alexa skills in the news, weather, and food delivery categories can make use of the feature, and Amazon says more apps will start incorporating notifications going forward.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Google does not give developers access to Google Home’s voice recognition feature; it does in fact allow third-party apps to use this data to personalize experiences.


Amazon unveiled its Echo Buttons at a big hardware event earlier this year, promising that the hockey puck-shaped buzzers would be ready in time for trivia games at Christmas. Amazon is now opening preorders for the Echo Buttons, available in the US in a two-pack for $19.99. The buttons will ship around December 19th, just in time for the holidays.
Each Echo Button will connect to an Echo device via Bluetooth to play single-player or multiplayer trivia games. Amazon is providing a number of games at launch, including music trivia, sound effect games, basketball trivia, and a football quiz. The Echo Buttons illuminate and can be used as buzzers to answer the questions that Alexa reads aloud. Amazon’s Echo Buttons are the first “Alexa Gadgets,” and more hardware accessories are planned for the future.


Facebook loves to steal Snapchat features to block the popular messaging app’s momentum. Ephemeral stories and messaging have arrived in Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp previously, and the company has even lifted Snapchat’s popular face filters and camera features. Facebook is now setting its sights on the streak feature of Snapchat, an addictive game that encourages friends to send messages back and forth for consecutive days.
Like Snapchat streaks, Facebook Messenger streaks include an emoji status for anyone you’re currently in a streak with. Facebook appears to be testing this on limited accounts at the moment. Twitter user Case Sandberg discovered the streaks feature, and other Facebook Messenger users have also noticed it in testing. It’s not clear if this is a limited test that won’t reach all Facebook accounts, or the start of the gamification of Facebook Messenger. Some of Facebook’s Snapchat clones don’t always work out.
Messenger is testing out streak counts... Streak counts really bug me. pic.twitter.com/leDRemkSR3
Streaks have become a popular part of Snapchat, thanks primarily to its young audience. Snapchat uses the feature to encourage its users to send more snaps, and even warns friends when a Snapstreak is about to expire. If Facebook is preparing to clone this, then don’t be surprised to see it show up in Instagram and WhatsApp. If Facebook is desperate enough to steal features from Snapchat, then it’s definitely desperate enough to spread this feature everywhere to keep you engaged with its various services.



Black Friday is around the corner and companies like HP are already releasing their deals. HP just announced several online deals that mostly go live on November 23rd.
Deals on most of the products listed below will go live on Thanksgiving, but in rare cases, like the 15-inch HP Envy Laptop x360, the full discount is already available.
Of the 15-page Black Friday ad, there weren’t that many products that offered a good amount of RAM and processing power for their buck. But not to worry, we’ve picked out the best of the best here:
Laptops
HP Envy x360 15-inch with a Core i5 for $669.99 (usually $869.99)
HP Envy x360 15-inch with a Core i7 for $729.99 (usually $929.99)
HP Spectre x360 13-inch for $899.99 (usually $1,149.99)
HP Spectre x360 15-inch for $1,129.99 (usually $1,399.99)
HP Envy x360 15z with AMD Ryzen 5 2500U Quad-Core for $699.99 (usually $799.99)
All-in-ones
HP Pavilion 24 All-in-One PC for $799.99 (usually $999.99)
HP Pavilion 27 All-in-One PC for $1,149.99 (usually $1,599.99)
Update November 22nd, 6:10PM ET: This article has been updated with a new deal from HP’s second ad scan.





Just like we use pumice stones to scrape dead skin off cracked heels during pedicures, bowhead whales may be using boulders at the bottom of the ocean to exfoliate, new research says. Identifying these scratching stones could be key to keeping human activity from disturbing these massive creatures.
In the summer of 2014, a team of researchers spotted a handful of odd-looking bowhead whales in a bay off the northeastern coast of Canada. These Arctic marine mammals average 50 to 60 feet long, and are powerful enough to break through ice. But this group looked splotchy, with patches of light gray and loose skin decorating their dark gray backs. And they kept rolling on their sides and backs and lifting their flippers out of the water. Apparently, they were in the bay for a good scratching, according to a study published today in the journal PLOS ONE.
Sloughing off dead skin and hair and regrowing them anew is called molting. Most whales, dolphins, and porpoises molt year-round — kind of like we do. But Arctic species like belugas are thought to molt all at once when they visit warmer waters during the summer. Bowhead whales have similar skin to belugas, and have been spotted molting in Russia’s Okhotsk sea. Graduate student Sarah Fortune at the University of British Columbia didn’t know if this specific population of bowhead whales in eastern Canada were regular exfoliators, too.
So two years later, the researchers went back to the same spot — this time, with a DJI Phantom 3 Professional drone. The team flew the drone to snap aerial pictures and videos of 83 whales. (The water was clear enough for them to see what the whales were doing at the bottom of the shallow bay.)
Almost all of them had splotchy skin. Many spent their time alternating between resting or rubbing their chins, heads, backs, and sides against the boulders in the bay. One whale was caught spending what was probably a blissful eight minutes scraping itself against a boulder. “We saw very clearly that the whales were taking turns rubbing their bodies on these rocks,” Fortune says. The whales bumped up against each other, too.
Fortune hopes that her research will be the starting point for identifying other bays around the world where bowhead whales turn for a good scratch. That way people can steer clear of them and let the whales do what they need to. The exfoliation ritual, in fact, might be more important than it seems. The whales may need to shrug off skin infested by parasites like whale lice or gunked up by plankton that might make it harder to regulate their body temperatures. The whales might also be getting rid of sun-damaged skin that would otherwise accumulate over lives more than 200 years long.
Or, just maybe, they do it because scraping off peeling skin feels so good.


A few weeks ago, as it seemed more and more likely that FCC chairman Ajit Pai would successfully dismantle US net neutrality rules, California Congressional representative Ro Khanna tweeted an alarming-looking screenshot from Portuguese mobile carrier Meo. “In Portugal, with no net neutrality, internet providers are starting to split the net into packages,” he wrote.
Since October 26th, this message has been retweeted over 58,000 times, and liked over 46,000 times. As Techdirt pointed out, it looks remarkably similar to a satirical chart showing internet services split into cable-style bundles, a graphic that’s been used to drive home the importance of net neutrality for years. But it’s also seriously misleading — in a way that misses a more important and subtle point about net neutrality.
In Portugal, with no net neutrality, internet providers are starting to split the net into packages. pic.twitter.com/TlLYGezmv6
The plan Khanna tweeted is called “Smart Net,” and as he correctly notes, it offers monthly subscription packages with names like Messaging, Social, and Video. Each of the five categories includes several big-name apps, including Netflix, FaceTime, Spotify, and Google Drive.
But based on Meo’s website, this doesn’t look like buying cable channels for the internet. It’s an add-on to general-purpose mobile subscriptions, which let you access any service — including the ones above. The idea is apparently that if you’re into apps like Snapchat and Facebook (or... LinkedIn, I guess), you pay around $8 a month to specifically get more “Social” data, so you can use your regular allotment for everything else. It looks a lot like the “Vodafone Pass” service in the UK, where subscribers can pay for unlimited access to a similar stable of services.
Techdirt explains this nuance, as does Quartz. But Khanna’s original tweet — the pithy statement that’s getting passed around context-free on social media — doesn’t. It implies that Meo is blocking or limiting certain “packages” unless you pay for them, the way that you can’t watch HBO without the right cable plan. His office didn’t immediately respond to an email asking for clarification.
“Portugal doesn’t have net neutrality, so it ended up with a dystopian cable-style internet” is also a bad argument for other reasons. For one thing, Portugal is part of the EU, which published widely praised net neutrality rules last year. More importantly, Meo’s plan doesn’t sound radically different from what telecoms are doing elsewhere. It seems philosophically similar to zero-rating, where carriers offer “free” data for apps like Netflix. Meo actually offers straightforward zero-rating for its own storage and entertainment apps, which provides them an even greater potential advantage.
Zero-rating and subscription packages both theoretically encourage mobile subscribers to favor established apps and services over up-and-coming competitors. In fact, you could argue that zero-rating and similar “sponsored data” plans are more insidious, because subscriptions at least make users consider whether they want to pay more for a better experience on certain apps. With zero-rating, they can just slip into using whichever default services offer unlimited data.
And you don’t have to look at Portugal, or a Trumpian future, to see zero-rating in action. General EU regulations call to examine cases on an individual basis, rather than banning the practice altogether, and so do the United States’ current (strong) net neutrality rules. AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile all offer it in some fashion right now — including T-Mobile’s Binge On, which isn’t that far from a free version of Meo’s video channel.
I’m not saying that these app packages sound good. Besides the competition problems I outlined above, they open the door for carriers to limit generic data pools, pressuring subscribers to buy extra subscriptions. But I haven’t seen a convincing argument that they’re a unique consequence of Portugal flouting EU net neutrality rules, nor something that seems unfathomable under the existing American system. Journalist Julian Sanchez argued that a US carrier could legally use Meo’s entire model right now. The biggest roadblock to US carriers adopting them is probably more public opinion than the FCC.
If there’s a lesson here, it’s that net neutrality isn’t just about writing rules, but about making sure that agencies will meaningfully enforce the spirit of them. The FCC, for example, determined in January that AT&T and Verizon’s zero-rating plans did violate net neutrality rules, though T-Mobile’s didn’t. But the report came out less than two weeks before former chairman Tom Wheeler stepped down, and Pai’s FCC has been predictably uninterested in following up with consequences.
Splashy headlines about Portugal’s supposed net-neutrality-free hellscape turn a complex debate over an imperfect policy to a good-versus-evil battle over flipping a single legal switch. The Trump administration has made it tough to have nuanced conversations, and so has Pai, whose proposed “light touch” rules are generally awful and paradoxically restrictive. But it’s better to try than to get lost in alarmist half-truths.


Drone maker DJI has released a new version of its DJI Goggles for drone racers. They’re called the DJI Goggles RE, short for racing edition. The original DJI Goggles went up for presale this past April and, like those, the DJI Goggles RE look a bit like a VR headset and let you control a drone with just your head movements and see from the device’s point of view, so long as the goggles are in head-tracking gimbal mode. While the original goggles are white, these come in matte black with red leather on the headband.
These new goggles are also compatible with non-DJI branded drones and third-party flight controllers like the F3 and Naze. The DJI Goggles RE support Sphere panoramic viewing and video streaming with the OcuSync Video Transmission Module, which has 12 transmission channels designed to reduce interference during a race, when multiple drones are likely flying by one another.
To that end, there’s an automatic frequency-hopping spread spectrum transmission, which jumps to the 2.4 and 5.8 GHz channels, depending on which has the least noise. The transmission module can reach latencies as low as 50ms. The transmission resolution is decent at 1280 x 960 and it has a maximum control range of 4.3 miles.
You’ll also have the option of connecting two pairs of the goggles together so another person could watch and control a drone alongside you. DJI’s new model starts shipping at the end of this month for $549, just missing Black Friday weekend. But there does happen to be a bundle with the OcuSync Air System and DJI Goggles Backpack that goes for $859.



Superheroes are a huge part of the 21st century pop culture landscape, but the characters spotlighted in TV and film generally weren’t actually created in the 21st century. Virtually every major DC and Marvel superhero project has been built around characters or teams created before the new millennium. They’re mostly older, well-known properties, which encourages showrunners and filmmakers to stick to old formulas and familiar character points. The resulting products can look fairly homogenized. Netflix’s Marvel series and The CW’s DC lineup have their individual charms, but they don’t deviate much in tone or structure.
But the exceptions have been memorable. When Jessica Jones debuted in the pages of Marvel Comics’ Alias in 2001, she wasn’t much of a hero at all. While she had superpowers, she’d given up a costumed life to be a hard-drinking, self-destructive private investigator. The superhero-tinged crime noir of her comic didn’t need many changes to translate into aTV show, and her distance from the usual superhero conventions makes Jessica Jones a standout of Netflix and Marvel’s partnership. With Hulu’s Runaways, another property created after 2000, Marvel Television makes a similarly smooth transition to the screen. The comic’s guiding principles are at play in the TV adaptation by The O.C. and Gossip Girl’s Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage.
The Runaways never reached Avengers or X-Men status in the comics. They aren’t a big-name superhero team, but they have developed a passionate fanbase. Many of those fans came from digest-sized collections, which made the comic easily available in bookstores and libraries. It helped that the series downplayed superhero elements in favor of YA storytelling. Creator Brian K. Vaughan set the comic in a superhero universe, but made his characters feel like ordinary people. They had no preexisting connections to other Marvel heroes, and they were physically distanced from the main action of the Marvel Universe by living in Los Angeles.
Runaways is the most autonomous project in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The first four chapters of the 13-episode first season don’t reference events in the Marvel movies, and unlike Netflix’s Marvel shows (Daredevil, The Punisher, The Defenders, and so forth), it’s not part of a larger project that’s planned around eventually forcing these characters into a crossover miniseries. This autonomy is the most important aspect of Runaways’ first story arc, which became the foundation of the TV series. In a superhero comic industry that prioritizes established IP over original concepts, Vaughan and artist Adrian Alphona created a brand new group of characters in their own corner of the Marvel Universe.
In the tradition of Marvel icons like Spider-Man and the X-Men, Runaways uses the superhero genre to explore the trials and thrills of adolescence. It puts a fantasy spin on a common teenage feeling: teenagers generally think their parents are awful, but what if they’re actually evil? The concept’s simplicity is part of its brilliance. In the pilot, a group of teenagers runs away after seeing their parents murder a young woman in a mysterious ceremony. As the kids investigate, they discover extraordinary abilities and acquire cool gadgets, mystical objects, and a pet dinosaur with a nose ring.
Vaughan made the jump to television (writing for Lost, executive producing the Stephen King adaptation Under The Dome) after building a strong reputation in comics, and his understanding of both comics and television make him a valuable resource for Hulu’s Runaways. Credited as an executive consultant, Vaughan worked directly with the show’s creators, helping them make decisions that enrich his original story without compromising its vision or spirit. The show makes some necessary changes so it can sustain a series, primarily by giving the parents much more time in the spotlight. By fleshing out the individual family dynamics, the series deepens the central conflict.
Runaways was originally in development as a film that would have been an earlier entry in the MCU. Developing this superhero world over the course of years let Marvel Studios and Marvel Television give the Runaways TV show a deeper connection to other properties, not through explicit story ties, but through genre influences. Narratively, Runaways stands apart from other Marvel films and series, but it still benefits from the framework established by those projects.
The Guardians Of The Galaxy films expanded the MCU’s cosmic landscape, opening the door for Runaways’ alien characters. The crime elements of Marvel’s Netflix shows make their way into the narrative courtesy of Geoffrey Wilder (Ryan Sands), a former gangster turned real-estate mogul. The experimental medicine and technology responsible for characters like Captain America, Hulk, and Iron Man are intrinsic to genius inventor Victor Stein (James Marsters) and geneticists Dale and Stacey Yorkes (Kevin Weisman and Brigid Brannagh), who have a dinosaur hidden in their house. Doctor Strange introduced the magical side of the MCU, and while Runaways is forced to present sorcery as advanced science because of Marvel Television’s “no magic” rule, the existence of genuine magic in the MCU informs scenes like Nico (Lyrica Okano) trying to commune with her dead sister’s spirit.
Marvel Comics stories tend to be set around New York City, and setting Runaways in Los Angeles gave the comic a breezier vibe. The show goes even further into the L.A. environment, making one of the parents the head of a Scientology-like church that preaches a message of light and self-love, but also kills teenagers it pulls off the streets. The setting also gives Runaways’ costume and set design a chance to depart from the Marvel norm. Runaways’ characters didn’t wear superhero costumes in the comic; they had wardrobes tailored to their personalities, and their clothes changed over time. The specificity of Alphona’s fashion design gives the TV show’s costume designers, Meredith Markworth-Pollack and Samantha Rattner, a strong foundation for the characters’ on-screen looks.
That unconventional approach to character design visually distinguished Runaways from other superhero comics. The teenagers’ styles from the comic’s initial 2003 run might feel dated now, so the designers pulled inspiration from more teen archetypes, like having the goth Nico (Lyrica Okano) lean into a Lorde-witch aesthetic rather than her Gothic Lolita fashion from the comics. Gertrude (Ariela Barer) wears a jacket emblazoned with “DO NOT DISTURB ME” on the back,accentuating her antagonistic attitude. And putting a pussy hat on her adopted sister, Molly (Allegra Acosta), is a clever way of reinterpreting her cute animal hats from the comics, while connecting her to Gertrude’s feminist point of view.
Brett Morgen is a surprising choice of director for the Runaways pilot, given that his film and TV experience has been exclusively documentaries (The Kids Stay In The Picture, Kurt Cobain: Montage Of Heck, this year’s Jane), but his involvement shows how dedicated the series is to the comics’ grounded point of view. Morgen’s documentarian eye for detail is especially valuable for creating a strong sense of place for the teenagers’ homes —especially their individual bedrooms. Nico’s room is decorated with black furniture, sketches of monsters, and creepy figurines. Church girl Karolina (Virginia Gardener) is surrounded by pink and elegant, clean decor, situating her as a paragon of princess-like femininity. Morgen sets the visual template with the pilot, and future directors follow his lead by providing multiple establishing shots of each location and framing shots to spotlight various environmental details, working with the design team to make these spaces distinct and reflective of the people who live in them.
These individual rooms also help establish the characters’ privileged lifestyle, which turns out to be built on murder and lies. Isolated on the West Coast, these kids don’t have any superheroes to rescue them from their supervillain parents. The Runaways formula requires this isolation, allowing the characters to establish themselves as unique inhabitants of an underexplored area of this superhero universe. It’s why this show is such a refreshing take on the genre. The key to unlocking the deeper potential of superhero media lies in finding new perspectives on the genre, now that other properties have laid the groundwork. The themes of superhero stories can be applied to more than standard costumed showdowns for the fate of the world. And Runaways’ success at trying something new — both in the comics, and on the screen — suggests studios can draw a lot of new energy from current creations, instead of sticking to legacy characters that have been around for decades.


After a Verge story detailed glaring examples of predatory comments on videos of children, YouTube announced today that it will turn off comments entirely on videos where it detects predatory behavior.
Last week, The Verge reported on the scope of the problem: videos of young children doing activities like gymnastics were being targeted by commenters making sexual comments, or inviting the children to talk. At the time, YouTube removed several of the videos provided by The Verge, some of which had hundreds of thousands or more views.
The company said in its statement today that, although those comments have never been permissible, it was taking new steps to make sure they don’t appear on its platform. “Comments of this nature are abhorrent and we work with NCMEC to report illegal behavior to law enforcement,” the company wrote in a blog post. “Starting this week we will begin taking an even more aggressive stance by turning off all comments on videos of minors where we see these types of comments.”
YouTube also announced several other changes it was making in response to recent criticism over how kids create and view content. The company said it was using technology to flag problematic videos more quickly, and would remove ads from “inappropriate” videos targeting families. YouTube said it will also provide new guidelines on its YouTube Kids content and will engage more experts for help.
YouTube has faced difficult questions about content targeted toward children in recent weeks, largely after a viral Medium post exposed bizarre videos targeting child viewers. “These latest enforcement changes will take shape over the weeks and months ahead as we work to tackle this evolving challenge,” the company said.





Thanksgiving is upon us, and for a lot of people, that means that we have an extended break from work to enjoy family and friends. It’s also a great time to finally get around to one of those shows that you’ve been meaning to binge-watch. There’s a glut of really fantastic shows out there. Here are our recommendations for something to stream while you’re sitting on the couch in a turkey-induced stupor.
Frank Castle, aka The Punisher, is out for revenge after the events of Daredevil. From the start of the season, Castle is a recluse, carrying massive emotional baggage from his time in Afghanistan. Drawn out of his shell by a string of compelling characters played by Amber Rose Revah, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, and others, Castle gradually grows more likable to the audience just as the story picks up speed, diving into police conspiracy and shootouts. It’s a violent and explicit series about US veterans and enraged single white men released at a time when America has been wracked by mass shootings in Las Vegas and Texas, meaning that it’s rife with material to discuss after the credits roll. —Shannon Liao
Best seen with: It’s a two-fer: you can watch it with your fellow Destiny 2 guardians and enjoy the gore, or discuss the underlying issues with your more politically minded family members.
Shows about serial killers are nothing new, but this series pulls off a neat trick by focusing on the people that figured out how to hunt them down in the first place. Based on John E. Douglas and Mark Olshaker’s book Mindhunter: Inside the FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit, the show follows a pair of mismatched FBI agents (Jonathan Groff and Holt McCallany) and a psychology professor (Anna Torv) who begin interviewing serial killers in the 1970s in order to understand why they do the things that they do. With David Fincher executive producing (and directing the pilot), Mindhunter is filled with the kind of unrelenting tension the filmmaker excels at, and infamous serial killers like Richard Speck and Edmund Kemper even pop up as characters. Be sure to stay for the final scene of the season, which plays like a lead-in to the most insidious expanded universe in the history of entertainment. —Bryan Bishop
Best seen with: Ask your friends and family if they liked Seven, Zodiac, True Detective, or The Silence of the Lambs. If they say yes, you’re good to go.
Channel Zero is an anthology series with self-contained seasons that are based on "creepypasta," the internet's equivalent of spooky campfire tales. It made a decent debut in 2016, but really hit its stride with this fall's six-episode "No-End House," where four young adults enter a haunted house and come out in a mirror world that preys on their dreams and fears. Beyond some effective grotesquerie and familiar horror tropes, you’ll get a compelling story about protagonist Margot (The Path's Amy Forsyth), who finds a way to reconnect with her dead father (American Horror Story's John Carroll Lynch) through the house. At its best, it's a surprisingly complex tragedy about the bonds of family and friendship... just a deeply, deeply creepy one. —Adi Robertson
Best seen with: Anyone interested in a more focused and less edgy version of American Horror Story, or a longer and more character-driven take on The Twilight Zone.
The third entry in Syfy’s Stargate franchise, Universe is a much darker, more somber show than its predecessors Stargate SG-1 and Stargate: Atlantis. In it, a space expedition is unexpectedly stranded billions of miles from home on an ancient starship called Destiny. The show is less episodic, and more story-driven than the shows that preceded it, focusing on the more gritty, realistic characters as they work to survive as they try and find their way home. —Andrew Liptak
Best seen with: Anyone who’s enjoyed the latest season of Star Trek: Discovery, Battlestar Galactica, or The Expanse.
With Thor: Ragnarok in theaters, millions of mainstream moviegoers who have never heard of writer-director Taika Waititi are becoming familiar with his improv comedy style. This is a great time to catch up on his past projects, which lack the superhero throwdowns and ’splosions, but have the same sort of goofy, amiable, self-effacing humor. The funniest of the pack is Hunt for the Wilderpeople, a wild family adventure about a teenager and his adoptive uncle taking off into the wilds. That one’s rentable on a variety of streaming services. Netflix has Eagle vs. Shark, Waititi’s ridiculously dry rom-com starring his longtime comedy partner Jemaine Clement. And Amazon Prime has his improvised dark vampire comedy What We Do In the Shadows and his funny family drama Boy, about an 11-year-old meeting his absentee criminal father.
Best seen with: Family members with a sense of humor, though you might want to fine-tune that — Hunt for the Wilderpeople is all-ages family fun, while What We Do In The Shadows is more for you and the cool younger cousins who like gross-out humor. —Tasha Robinson
This suspense-driven TV mini-series on Amazon will give you a taste of international intrigue while you cuddle up with blankets in your home. Tom Hiddleston plays the night manager at a hotel in Cairo who anticipates the needs of his guests, but not the secret documents that draw him into a web of espionage. As a British soldier turned luxury hotel employee, Hiddleston possesses all the charm of Loki, who he plays in the Thor franchise, but less of the mischief. In six too-short episodes, this spy drama enlightens and entertains. —Shannon Liao
Best seen with: Adults who will appreciate the jet-setting and spy thrills.
Created by Eugene Levy (Best in Show, Waiting for Guffman) and his son Dan, Schitt's Creek is about a wealthy family of four who find themselves living in a crappy motel in a nowhere town when all their belongings are unexpectedly repossessed by the IRS. This half-hour series, which also airs on Canadian TV, feels like a secret that I want to tell everyone about: it's deeply funny, strange, and just heartwarming enough to keep your head in the game during the holidays. The characters, including an overwrought Catherine O'Hara, manage to be annoying and likable at the same time — maybe like your own family? —Lizzie Plaugic
Watch it with: Your siblings, who will roll their eyes at first, and then get angry if you binge it without them.
It doesn't matter if you don't know what choux pastry or proofing is, watching The Great British Baking Show feels like wrapping your entire body in a warm loaf of freshly baked something or other. At least, it does until the end of each episode when someone gets eliminated and you're suddenly crying for reasons you can't quite explain. Another reason to cry: last year, three of the hosts quit after it was announced that the show would leave the BBC for the UK's Channel 4. The newest iteration of the series premiered this September to mixed reviews, but four seasons of the BBC version are on Netflix right now. That should last you to the pie course, at least. —Lizzie Plaugic
Watch with: Your cousin who says her pumpkin pie is better than yours.
On a surface level, Halt and Catch Fire is about the rise of computers in the late ‘80s, and the lives of a few fictionalized people who built them. The show’s main trio — a slick salesman, a downtrodden engineer, and a quirky but brilliant programmer — initially read like stock characters in a college play. But their struggles to understand one another, and their individual failures as humans, soon make this drama a compelling, relatable watch. The show just wrapped its fourth and final season in October, but the first three seasons are streaming now on Netflix. —Megan Farokhmanesh
Watch with: Your family members who have nostalgia for the days of modems, and / or constantly ask you for tech support.
Long before Baby Driver, Hot Fuzz, J.J. Abrams’ Star Trek, or even Shaun of the Dead, actor Simon Pegg and director Edgar Wright worked together on a UK sitcom called Spaced. The premise sounds pretty well-worn by now: Pegg plays an aspiring comic artist who is so desperate for a new apartment that he pretends to be in a relationship with a total stranger (Jessica Stevenson) so the pair can land a new place as flatmates. Hijinks and romance ensue, along with an avalanche of pop culture references. Pegg and Stevenson created the show together, with Wright directing both seasons, and it’s combination of whimsy and effervescent filmmaking still make it a joy to watch, even if it does feels slightly dated at times. —Bryan Bishop
Watch with: Fans of the Three Flavours Cornetto trilogy and anyone who pines for the days before fan culture had been weaponized to fill every moment of our waking lives.



Apple’s Thanksgiving ad this year teaches us that if we all wear AirPods, we can transport ourselves into a Stranger Things-esque world — minus the monsters and the grime — filled with ballet and sexy lighting. Then, by pirouetting through the streets and picking lint off strangers’ jackets, we, too, can find love. (That is, until the Sam Smith song ends.)
The music video ad is a weird, almost literal interpretation of Sam Smith’s “Palace,” except instead of the woman’s head being filled with ruins, it’s filled with romantic spotlights and plenty of wild gymnastics.
While it doesn’t encourage me to give Apple $159 for a pair of electric toothbrush head-like ear accessories I would definitely lose in the snow if I were to attempt to dance like that, the video might make others fall under the spell of the spending-crazed holiday magic:


When I was in university, my trusty Nintendo DS went everywhere I did. I kept it stashed in my bag at all times, and whenever I needed a break I’d jump into Animal Crossing: Wild World to relax. The life simulation game, where players build a virtual life in a bucolic town full of animal friends, had a sense of aimlessness that made it the perfect distraction. If I had a few minutes in between classes, I could plant some fruit trees, catch a few fish, or chat with my neighbors. It’s a lot like the way I play mobile games today, making steady, incremental progress whenever I’m free. This week’s release of Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp on iOS and Android confirms that the series is a great fit for mobile. It makes some compromises, but delivers the core of what I want from Animal Crossing: a nice, slow way to unwind.
Previous Animal Crossing games were wonderfully open-ended, dropping your human avatar in a town full of animals and letting you wander. You could make friends, pay off your mortgage, become an avid bug collector, or none of the above. The focus on simply living a virtual life without high-pressure goals was a large part of the appeal.
In Pocket Camp, you’re still a human surrounded by talking animals, but this time your home base is campground rather than a house. As in other Animal Crossing games, you can decorate your living space, chat with animals, and give gifts to improve your friendships. The real-time clock also makes the leap to mobile, where some events only happen at certain times or on certain days, and when you pick some fruit from a tree you’ll need to wait a specified number of hours for more to grow back. It’s what makes these games such a satisfying habit, something you play for a few minutes each day, rather than gorging on it all at once. The real-time structure fits mobile really well, since the game is on a device you always have with you. I’ve found myself doing a bit of fishing before bed, and letting the chill nighttime music lull me to sleep.
There are some changes and compromises that come with the new format, however, and Pocket Camp feels a bit more like a typical video game because of them. The most obvious example is the constant barrage of goals. In order to progress and unlock new content, you’ll need to complete a never-ending list of arbitrary milestones, like catching 50 fish or making five new friends. It’s something you can ignore, of course, but then you’d miss out on a lot of the experience. You earn both money and experience from completing goals, which in turn unlocks new content like decorations for your campsite, or more animal friends to meet.
This more focused approach is baked right into the structure of the world. Instead of one large open space you can explore, Pocket Camp is divided into a series of smaller areas, each with a specific function. If you want to catch some bugs, there’s an island just for that, while you can go fishing either at the beach or a local stream. There’s even an area specifically for picking fruit. It makes sense that the game would be smaller in scale on mobile, but what this structure really does is take away a lot of the sense of discovery and aimlessness.
In past Animal Crossing games, you could amble across your town and stumble on a weird new bug, or luck upon some coconuts washed up on the beach. That doesn’t happen in Pocket Camp: any time you go somewhere, you do so with a predetermined goal in mind. Keen series fans will also notice that a number of iconic features, like gardening or digging for fossils, aren’t present in the new game.
All that said, Pocket Camp still does a remarkable job of emulating the soothing pace that makes Animal Crossing so appealing. Even with the spectre of goals and progress looming, the actual act of playing is still very relaxing. Catching bugs and fish is a lot of fun, and I’ve spent a lot of time fussing about with my campsite, setting it up just right. And the in-game chatter remains as charming as ever. It’s hard not to smile when talking to a cute yellow elephant who makes great soup, or a purple cat who won’t stop calling you silly.
Animal Crossing’s distinct structure also makes some of the more frustrating elements common to free-to-play mobile games much less annoying. Waiting for fruit to grow, for instance, doesn’t feel like a burden because, well, that’s how the game has always worked. You have the option to speed things up by using fertilizer, which can be bought with a premium in-game currency, but I haven’t felt the need to. The same goes for the new crafting feature. Here you can build your own furniture (though there’s still a market to shop at) using materials gathered from completing goals and helping out friendly animals. Depending on what you’re building, it can take hours to finish, or you can speed up the process with cash. But as someone who has spent actual days waiting for my house to be remodeled in previous Animal Crossing games, this never bothered me. It feels like a natural part of the game, as opposed to something tacked on to get you to spend money.
There are a few additions that don’t work so well, though. Most notable is the new mining mechanic, where you can go to a section of the campground and dig up resources that can then be used for crafting. In order to do so, however, you’ll need to either spend premium currency or pester five friends for their help. It’s a callback to annoying Facebook games like FarmVille, and it’s the one place where it feels like the game is trying to squeeze cash out of you. Pocket Camp also adds some new social features, but they feel woefully underdeveloped. You can visit the campsites of your real-world friends, but there’s very little you can actually do with them, aside from check out their furniture and buy some of their freshly caught fish. The fact that you can’t send gifts or notes — a beloved feature in past Animal Crossing games — is a major omission.
Pocket Camp chops up the Animal Crossing formula and puts it back together in ways that don’t always work, but ultimately it doesn’t change the overall feel of the game. It’s still a leisurely experience, one where hanging out with friends or picking apples are vital daily activities. Pocket Camp changes things, and ultimately shrinks the experience, but it also keeps just enough of Animal Crossing’s essence to make it work. And the shift to mobile adds something important. Animal Crossing is a game best enjoyed as a daily habit, and there’s no better place for that than on your phone.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp is available now on iOS and Android.



Scientists have created a new robotic device that can keep a failing heart beating by gently squeezing half of it. The device has only been tested in pigs for now, but it holds the potential to one day save the lives of people with heart failure.
The robot is made of three parts: a rigid, half-moon frame that hugs one side of the heart, an “anchor” that goes inside the heart, and a soft, muscle-like band that twists and contracts, squeezing the heart to keep the blood flowing. The researchers successfully tested the device in pigs that were given different types of heart failure in the lab — allowing their hearts to keep pumping blood the way they were supposed to, according to a study published today in the journal Science Robotics.
Around the world, at least 26 million people suffer from heart failure. Many of these are children, who are born with congenital diseases that don’t allow their hearts to pump enough blood, says study co-author Nikolay Vasilyev, a researcher for Boston Children's Hospital and assistant professor of surgery at Harvard Medical School. Heart transplantation is the best option, but there’s a shortage of donor organs. As people await transplantation, their hearts are put on so-called ventricular assist devices, or VADs. These devices use artificial tubes to reroute blood from the heart to the vessels going in and out, but they can cause serious problems: blood can clot in the tubes, putting people at risk of stroke. To avoid that, patients with VADs are given blood thinners, but that can cause dangerous bleeding.
So researchers are looking for better options. Earlier this year, researchers at Harvard created a soft robot that functioned as a silicone “sleeve” around the heart, squeezing the organ so it could pump blood again. (That device was also tested in pigs.) The device described in today’s study, created by some of the same Harvard researchers, also squeezes the heart to restore blood flow, but with a different mechanism.
The latest device doesn’t target the whole heart, but only half of it. The human heart is divided into two lower chambers, called ventricles: the right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs, while the left one pumps blood to the rest of the body. When people have heart failure, sometimes it’s because only one of the two ventricles isn’t working. So the new device is meant to target only the malfunctioning ventricle, not both, like the soft robot described earlier this year.
To do this, the new device has a rigid “anchor” that braces the sturdy muscle wall separating the two ventricles. That way, when compressed air is pumped into the device to twist the elastic bands on one side of the heart, only one ventricle is squeezed to eject blood, leaving the healthy ventricle alone. The device — which is placed through a small cut — also syncs up its squeezing with the heart’s existing rhythm, so it can function autonomously. Unlike existing VADs, this device doesn’t reroute blood through artificial tubes, says Vasilyev. That means that patients could receive much less blood thinning medication, avoiding complications like bleeding and stroke. “It’s a completely different concept,” Vasilyev tells The Verge.
The device isn’t perfect: it’s connected through wires to an outside air pumping and control box that’s a little bigger than a DVD player. The researchers also tested the device only on pigs, for about an hour. Before it could actually be used in people, longer-term animal studies and clinical trials need to show it’s safe and effective. In the future, the air pumping box could be made more portable, Vasilyev says, so that people with the device could technically be discharged from hospitals. But that’s a long way away: Vasilyev hopes that the device will become available in a few years, allowing patients — especially children — waiting for heart transplants to survive longer and with fewer complications.
“I truly hope that our device will help those children,” Vasilyev says.


As the FCC moves ahead with its plan to dismantle net neutrality protections, pro-net neutrality groups say they’re planning protests at Verizon stores around the country on December 7th.
“We'll demand that our members of Congress take action to stop Verizon's puppet FCC from killing net neutrality,” the organizers write on a website dedicated to the protests.
The groups, which have organized protests like the digital “day of action,” say volunteer organizers are planning for the protests, which will be held in several cities. In some cases, protesters will march to lawmakers’ offices as well.
This week, the FCC announced its intention to vote on a rollback of net neutrality protections on December 14th. The changes, spearheaded by Chairman Ajit Pai, are likely to pass through the Republican-dominated Commission.
Verizon holds a dual significance as a target of protest. For one, the company has been a prominent critic of the current net neutrality rules, and stands to benefit if they’re dismantled. Pai was also at one time a lawyer for the company.
Verizon did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the protests.


Hey there. How you feeling? Ready to regret that fourth slice of pie tomorrow and then follow it up with some shopping on Monday? Same. I know we're all going to be working through lots of feelings these next few days, and Circuit Breaker Live is here to help you. We're back!
Paul Miller, Ashley Carman (that's me), and Chaim Gartenberg will be live on Twitter at 9AM ET for a special Cyber Monday edition of the gadget show. Click here to join. This episode won't have any wacky gadget demos, but it will have deals. Chaim is our resident Deal Expert, so he'll jump into the conversation with breaking deals while Paul and I help you sort out your purchase-related feelings. Feeling down that you're looking for new headphones because your old ones were your favorites? Or maybe you're conflicted because you love both Microsoft and Apple, but don't know how to make the decision between a MacBook or a Surface Book.
As we always say, we aren't tech support, so we can't give you buying advice, but we can help you grapple with your emotions. You can reach us through Twitter, either by tweeting directly at us at @futurepaul and @ashleyrcarman, or through the show's hashtag #CircuitBreakerLive. For only this show, we'll have a phone number you can call to talk to Paul and I directly. It's 1-844-4EMOTION (or 1-844-436-6846). Please call us and share your feelings with the world.


While Black Friday deals can help you buy up smart home appliances on the cheap, the opposite also exists for users looking for a taste of luxury. Smart home accessory maker Ring just revealed a limited edition video doorbell encrusted in jewels. The very poshly named Ring Elite Crown Jewel has 2,077 sapphires and 40 diamonds set into an 18-karat gold faceplate, all made by Bijan Jewelry.
The Elite Crown Jewel’s video doorbell components are based on Ring’s Video Doorbell Elite, a slim model with high-end features like HD video and infrared night vision. The Video Doorbell Elite usually goes for $499.99 at Best Buy and $450 at Amazon, but with the extra decorations, the Elite Crown Jewel’s price tag has been bumped up to $100,000.
There are only 10 units made of the Elite Crown Jewel and they’re being sold at the Selfridges on Oxford Street, which is a UK-based chain of department stores. Perhaps as a way of easing the consciences of any luxury buyers, Ring also announced that the proceeds are going to UK charities aimed at reducing crime.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.





Hunting for the tapeworms that infest shark and ray guts has made Kirsten Jensen and Janine Caira pros at dissecting on the fly. The two parasitologists have extracted fish entrails in parking lots, on moving boats, and on hotel room balconies. They have to act quickly, because tapeworms don’t survive for long in the bowels of a dead host. Wait too long and “the worms tend to rot because they’re delicate little creatures,” Caira says. “Tiny, delicate, beautiful little creatures.”
Tapeworms are bizarre parasites that latch onto the lining of animals’ guts — yeah, yours, too — and soak up the nutrients floating by. With no heads and no intestines of their own, these living noodles can stretch from a hundredth of an inch to 100 feet in length. For nearly a decade, Jensen at the University of Kansas and Caira at the University of Connecticut have spearheaded an international effort to inventory all of the tapeworms on Earth. Now, the team has reported on nearly 5,000 species of tapeworm in a massive paper published by the University of Kansas Museum of Natural History, including 215 species that are newly discovered.
The project began as part of a larger push by the National Science Foundation to survey the planet’s biodiversity — particularly for less-loved creatures. It’s important work, because tapeworms are the nightmare versions of canaries in the coal mine. These parasites travel up the food chain as they mature: in the ocean, for instance, tapeworm eggs are slurped up by tiny crustaceans, which then get eaten by bigger creatures, like fish. The tapeworm larvae develop in this new host until a larger animal, like a shark, eats it. And that’s how full-grown tapeworms end up in the guts of sharks. It’s the circle of life. So the presence of adult tapeworms in an ecosystem means that the food chain is healthy and intact (if gross).
That’s why scientists went looking for the parasites all over the world. Jensen and Caira were in charge of searching for the tapeworms infecting sharks and rays. (Other teams investigated the bowels of birds, mammals, reptiles, and bony fish.) They partnered with local scientists, visited fish markets, and followed fishing boats in 16 different countries, offering to clean fresh catches. That’s how the two scientists found themselves on the backs of scooters racing to a harbor in Vietnam to retrieve the guts of a freshly caught ray. With a baggie of entrails in hand, they skulked back to the hotel room. “You don’t exactly want the hotel to know that you're dissecting on your balcony,” Caira says.
During a break from tapeworm-hunting — there are probably 20,000 different species out there — the two scientists spoke with The Verge about their favorite tapeworms, and how to avoid getting infected.
This interview has been edited for brevity and clarity.
Kirsten Jensen: The tapeworms that my lab primarily studies have a thing on the apex of their scolex, [the front part of a tapeworm that latches on to the host’s intestines], which makes them look like they’re wearing hats. [That’s] a genus that we named Seussapex. We don't want to get into trouble for not having told Dr. Seuss that we did this, but it’s named after Dr. Seuss because it looks just like a Dr. Seuss character.
Janine Caira: It looks just like the Cat in the Hat's hat. One of the groups of tapeworms that my lab works on has hooks, so they look kind of vicious, but they're actually pretty awesome. It turns out that the hooks are made of several different kinds of protein — some of which may actually be unknown as of yet. The anterior part of the tapeworm, in that case, is divided into two separate regions that function sort of on their own, independent of one another. It pushes the boundary of how bizarre tapeworms are for me. But it also is a really cool-looking tapeworm.
KJ: From eating raw or undercooked fish or meat that contains a larval tapeworm. But as soon as it's cooked, any of that fish or meat would be safe to eat in terms of tapeworm infection. Humans cannot contract any of the tapeworms in sharks or stingrays, birds, or certain groups of mammals that are not closely related to us.
JC: We would appreciate if in your article, you could put in big capital letters: “TO AVOID CONTRACTING TAPEWORMS, COOK YOUR FOOD.”
JC: No. It's kind of a fallacy. In the case of that really long tapeworm that does infect humans, it has a super high affinity for vitamin B12, so sometimes it will cause anemia. But for the most part, tapeworms, if they’re in their natural host, they don’t do a lot of damage. Probably because we think the tapeworms for sharks and rays have been there for hundreds of millions years. They’re not helping the host, so it's not a mutualistic association, but they’re not doing a huge amount of damage to the host either.
KJ and JC: No!
JC: Bad idea, bad idea. In the end, it doesn't actually consume that much food. It’s kind of fallacious to think that tapeworms actually out-compete what’s happening in your gut. If anything, [some could] give you a vitamin B12 deficiency and erode the surface of your mucosa a bit. [For a pet,] pick something more like… a chinchilla.
KJ and JC: No.
JC: There is a fairly large nematode [a type of roundworm] that people can actually get as an infection. In this case, the individuals are separate sexes and the female has been known to wander around the body including coming out the nose while looking for a male. But, that's not a tapeworm.
KJ: I can’t not enjoy my sushi, I have to admit.
JC: I find it quite a challenge that I work with people who still eat raw fish.
KJ: I don’t know if I’m a risk taker. If you cut your fish thin enough, you might see it, given a trained eye…
JC: Or you could just cook your food and be fully confident you're not picking up a tapeworm infection! I'm just saying. I’m a big fan of cooked food, and yes, it's because I’m a parasitologist.



After the FCC began its assault on net neutrality earlier this year, several cities and states began looking into ways to protect consumers on their own. Unfortunately, the FCC has decided that it won’t allow that to happen: as part of its proposal to repeal net neutrality, the commission is trying to use its authority to preempt any and all state and local net neutrality regulations.
The commission intends to block any local laws or regulations that “effectively impose rules or requirements that we have repealed or decided to refrain from imposing in this order or that would impose more stringent requirements for any aspect of broadband service that we address in this order.”
So to sum up: states can’t pass anything covered in the 2015 net neutrality order, they can’t pass anything the FCC mentioned but didn’t pass in this new order, and they can’t pass anything that would at all make life more difficult for ISPs. That seems to include the stricter privacy rules that Congress voted to throw out earlier this year.
The FCC says it’s able to implement this ban because internet access is an interstate service, and it’s impractical to make ISPs treat interstate and intrastate traffic differently. Doing so, the commission writes, would apply “far greater burdens” and “pose an obstacle to or place an undue burden on” the delivery of broadband internet.
It’s very likely this provision will end up being challenged in court, especially since states and localities have already started passing measures to protect consumers’ data. If it holds up, it’ll then be up to Congress to pass stricter net neutrality rules.
The FCC will vote on its proposal to end net neutrality on December 14th.


Facebook plans to offer a portal where users can see if they engaged with pages linked to Russian propaganda efforts. The portal, which Facebook says will be released by the end of the year, will show users whether they liked or followed specific Facebook or Instagram accounts backed by the Kremlin-linked Internet Research Agency. It will track activity between January 2015 and August 2017, and be available through the Facebook Help Center.
The accounts in question were part of a broad effort to, in Facebook’s words, “sow division and mistrust” before and after the 2016 election. They ostensibly supported American political causes across the ideological spectrum, and appear to have gained some traction among actual Facebook users — at least one allegedly Russia-linked page successfully organized offline rallies. The Internet Research Agency also allegedly pushed thousands of divisive ads to 10 million people, often directing them to similarly themed pages. Facebook has since said that it’s taking more steps to prevent ads from any “inauthentic operation,” including vetting the groups behind them.
Facebook says that this portal “is part of our ongoing effort to protect our platforms and the people who use them from bad actors who try to undermine our democracy.” It’s also a way of signaling to Congress that it’s serious about transparency, after being accused of dragging its feet in the investigation over Russia-linked ads. But the tool’s capabilities are limited. It apparently won’t say whether you saw or shared posts from the accounts — only whether you engaged with them directly.


Roku’s new Streaming Stick Plus may have only come out a few weeks ago, but the company is already putting it on sale for Black Friday for $20 off, dropping the price from $69.99 down to $49.99 for a limited time.
The Streaming Stick Plus supports 4K, HDR, and Roku’s entire catalog of app channels, although, as we noted in our review, content offerings for 4K and HDR are a bit slim right now. Still, if you’re looking to future-proof your set-top box options, it’s a pretty significant discount on such a new product.
The deal goes live on November 23rd at 12:01AM ET and runs through November 28th at 2:59AM ET while supplies last at various retailers and Roku.com.


It’s difficult to fathom why anyone in the Jurassic Park universe would still think screwing with dinosaurs with a good idea. They get a pass for the first movie, where they arguably didn’t know that the magnificent dinos were going to eat everyone around them. But after The Lost World, where a T. rex wreaked havoc on San Diego, Jurassic Park 3, where I presume dinosaurs killed more people, and Jurassic World, which was filled with glorious scenes of park guests being terrorized and eaten, you’d think people might have learned their lesson. The new teaser for Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom, however, confirms that people’s love of dinosaurs is still somehow greater than their fear of being digested.
We know very little about Fallen Kingdom, which is slated for release next summer, aside from how clearly excited its creators are to have Jeff Goldblum reprise his role as Dr. Ian Malcolm. Based on today’s teaser, where Owen (Chris Pratt) gives a good chin scratch to a tinysaurus, we can conclude that despite the four previous films where playing with dinosaurs led to death and horror, the film’s characters still haven’t learned that it’s a bad idea to treat dinosaurs like a scaly house cat.
From our Jurassic family to yours. @FilmBayona @PrattPrattPratt @BryceDHoward @LeDoctor #FALLENKINGDOM pic.twitter.com/KiR3et9Vx1
So why won’t people in the Jurassic Park films stop making dinosaur death parks, aside from the fact that it’s the premise of the series? One word: money. Once you have the power to create a long-extinct creature and earn a buck off it, common sense sounds pretty dull. Jurassic World took this to a hilarious new level, insisting that the park’s developers needed to create hybrid dinosaur monsters to boost flagging attendance at the park, a dubious premise at best. Investors are not impressed with the murdersaurus they have currently. They need a new one. Can it have a chainsaw for a mouth?
It’s hard to imagine a scenario where a tropical park full of living dinosaurs wouldn’t be spectacularly attractive to rich people everywhere. As this perfect Reddit comment points out, “Fucking Disneyland manages to stay profitable and they don't have a monopoly on ACTUAL LIVE MOTHER FUCKING DINOSAURS!”



Building your studio is expensive! Luckily, that’s what Black Friday is for. Now is the time to splurge on some plugins, sample packs, or even the synths and microphones you’ve been eyeing but couldn’t bring yourself to buy. From Moog to Pro Tools to Subpac, there are tons of deals available for musicians and producers. Here are some of the top picks, with more to come.
If you buy one Black Friday deal this year, this should probably be it. Waves’ Diamond Bundle, the company’s top-of-the-line suite with 65 audio mixing and mastering plugins, from dynamics to pitch correction, is going for an astounding 90 percent off. It’s currently priced at $299 (normally $2,999). If you don’t want to bundle and instead want to pick and choose individual plugins, there’s lots of Waves discounts to be had all around.
FL Studio: Save up to $350 on select Razer Blade laptops, and get a free copy of FL Studio Producer Edition (with lifetime free updates). The DAW is normally $199. The deal runs until the 30th of November and is valid in the US, Canada, EU (English), the UK, Germany, France, Australia, Singapore, and Hong Kong.
PreSonus: Until November 27th, PreSonus’ DAW Studio One and its notation software, Notion 6, are 50 percent off. That means you can nab Studio One 3 Artist for $49.50 (normally $99), Studio One 3 Professional for $199.50 (normally $399), and all crossgrades and upgrades at the same 50 percent discount. During the sale, Notion 6 is $74.97 (normally $149.95), and all crossgrades and upgrades have the same 50 percent discount.
Ableton Live: Ableton Live recently announced the newest version of its DAW, Live 10, coming early 2018. In the meantime, purchase the current version, Live 9, with a 20 percent discount, and get a free upgrade to Live 10 when it comes out. During the sale, Live 9 Intro is $79 (normally $99), Standard is $359 (normally $449), and Suite is $599 (normally $749).
Propellerhead: Reason 10 is currently $100 off, making the digital download of the DAW only $299.
Bitwig: New customers can save $100 on Bitwig Studio 2 during the company’s winter sale. Grab it now from Bitwig’s webshop for $299.
iZotope: iZotope is offering discounts on both bundles and individual products. The Mix & Master Bundle, for example, which includes Ozone 8 Standard and Neutron 2 Standard is $199 for any Standard product owner (regularly $398). Individually, products like mastering tool Ozone Elements is $29 (regularly $129) and audio repair tool RX Elements is $29 (regularly $129).
Lennar Digital: Until November 27th, get Sylenth1 for 25 percent off. Enter the coupon code BLFR2017 during the order process. The discount does not apply to monthly payment plans, but can be used for paying off a remaining balance.
Beatport: Until Monday, dance music retailer Beatport is offering up to 50 percent off your cart with a mystery sale. The discount changes hourly, so enter CYBERSALE at checkout to discover your savings.
Loopmasters: Get up to 70 percent off sample packs from Big Fish Audio, Prime Loops, ModeAudio, Freaky Loops, and more.
Serato: Get 50 percent off on the full Serato DJ Suite, which includes Serato DJ, Serato Video, Serato DVS, Serato FX Pack, Serato Flip, and Serato Pitch ‘n Time DJ. Serato’s Control Vinyl is also 50 percent off, minus the standard black version, so if you’ve been eyeing one of the ?uestlove 7-inch vinyls or a pop of color with a pair of yellow or purple marbled 12-inch vinyls, now’s the time to splurge.
Universal Audio: Universal Audio is currently doing 12 Days of UAD, where it reveals deals every day until December 1st. The company has knocked 50 percent off several bundles and plugins: the SSL 4000 E Channel Strip collection is $149 (regularly $299) and Little Labs’ Voice Of God Bass Resonance is $75 (regularly $149.99). Check the site daily for additional sales.
Reveal Sound: Get coveted Spire synth with a massive sound bundle for $259 (regularly $375).
Splice: Get two free months of Splice Sounds (a cloud-based sample and preset library with over 1 million sounds) with code 2FREE (normally $7.99 a month). New customers only.
Fender Play: Until December 31st, receive 50 percent off Fender Play (a video-based platform for learning to play guitar) for your entire subscription duration (normally $19.99 per month). Offer for new subscribers only.
Steinberg: Until November 27th, save 40 percent on Steinberg’s Absolute 3 VST Instrument Collection, which includes The Grand 3 for piano sounds, Padshop Pro for granular sound design, Retrologue 2 for vintage analog synth sounds, and more. Enter coupon code ABSOLUTE2017 at checkout.
Plugin Boutique: There are tons of plugins on sale here with deep discounts. Vocal editing tool Celemony Melodyne Essential is $49 (normally $99), and Sugar Bytes synth Cyclop is $49 (normally $99). Poke around the site for more great deals on VSTs and AUs.
Native Instruments: Native Instruments is knocking up to 50 percent off over 180 instruments, effects, and more, including Massive and Kontakt 5. Hardware alert: if you’ve been eyeing the new Maschine MK3, this could be a good time to scoop one up. The company is bundling it with Komplete 11, a suite of instruments, products, and sounds, for $798.50 (normally $1,198).
Sol Republic: Sol Republic is offering 30 percent off any product over $29.99, and is throwing in free shipping. That means you can grab the Tracks HD2 for $59.99 (normally $99.99). The deal will end at 11:59PM ET on November 27th and is only good for US customers.
Sweetwater: Retailer Sweetwater has a lot of Black Friday deals going on, like 20 percent off their regular price for Avid Pro Tools 12 software with an upgrade plan. Sweetwater is offering the DAW’s monthly subscription at $10 a month for 48 months. By comparison, if you purchase the monthly subscription directly on the Avid website, it’s $24.92 a month. They’re also currently offering a chunk off custom Westone AC10 in-ear monitors at $239.99 (regularly $299.99). If you’re looking for speakers, the company just bought up a bunch of Focal CMS 65 6.5-inch Powered Studio Monitors. Normally $795 each, Sweetwater is offering the remaining stock at $495 per unit.
Guitar Center: Guitar Center has a 25 percent off code (SAVE25) that is applied to quite a few items. The code makes the Alesis VX49 keyboard controller $299.25 (regularly $399), the KRK Rokit 5 G3 studio monitor $112.49 (regularly $149.99), and the Road Runner ATA DJ Case $288.74 (regularly $384.99). There’s tons more available on Guitar Center’s website, so go have a browse.
ACS: These custom, in-ear monitors that also offer hearing protection are currently on sale from 10 to 35 percent off. For example, get the PRO17 hearing protection buds for $120.25 (regularly $185), and the Evoke Custom in-ear monitors for $276.25 (regularly $425).
AKG: The brand is offering 50 percent off headphones, including the over ear Y50 model. On top of that, enter code FREE2DAY to get free two day shipping on any order over $19.99.
Pioneer DJ: Until November 27th, cop a pair of DM-40 speakers in white or black for $99 (regularly $149). The company is also currently offering a couple of mail-in rebates. If you purchase a DJM-900NXS2 4-channel professional DJ mixer from an authorized Pioneer DJ dealer through December 31st, you can claim a free pair of HDJ-2000MK2 DJ headphones (priced at $249.99). Also, if you purchase a TORAIZ AS-1 monophonic analog synth from an authorized Pioneer DJ dealer through December 31st, you can claim a free pair of HRM-5 studio headphones (priced at $99). All claims must be postmarked by January 31st, 2018, and the offer is only valid in the US and Canada.
V-Moda: V-Moda is offering a steep discount on its popular Crossfade Wireless headphones. Normally $300, you can grab them now for $180. That’s 40 percent knocked off the usual price.
DJ TechTools: All versions of the Midi Fighter — the Twister, 3D, and 64 — are 20 percent off. Its backpack, made specifically to carry DJ controllers and bring as a flight carry-on, is also on sale for $119 (regularly $149.99). Lastly, the company’s Chroma USB cables are 50 percent off, making them a 2-for-1 deal.
Shure: Shure is offering discounts on a bunch of products through the end of the year. Some headphone deals include the SRH550DJ for $79 (regularly $99), the SRH750DJ for $99 (regularly $149), and the SRH1840 open backs for $399 (regularly $499). Microphones are also on sale. Vocal microphone SM58 is $89 (regularly $99), large diaphragm condenser mic MV51 is $149 (regularly $199), and drum mic kit DMK57-52 is $369 (regularly $399). There’s a whole bunch more scattered around the Shure website and all deals are good until December 31st.
Subpac: Wearable bass system Subpac is offering a Subpac S2 for $199 with a free BackPac. The Subpac S2 is normally $299 and the BackPac is $79 so that’s nearly $200 in savings. It’s only for the first 100 customers, so if you’ve been thinking about getting one of these for your studio, now is definitely the time.
ROLI: ROLI is offering $200 cash back on the Seaboard RISE 49 (priced at $1,099.95) and $100 cash back on the RISE 25 (priced at $849.95). Along with the cash back, your purchase will also come with acoustic drum studio software FXpansion’s BFD3 for free (worth $350). The Lightpad Block also has a cash back deal of $50 (priced at $179.95) bundled with a free Snapcase Solo protective case (worth $39.95). Deals run through November 28th.
Moog: Moog is offering up to 30 percent off the following Moog instruments: Minimoog Model D, Minimoog Voyager XL, Sub Phatty, Minitaur, Mother-32, Werkstatt-01, Etherwave Theremins, Theremini, Moogerfoogers, and Minifoogers. Find an authorized Moog retailer to inquire about discounts and availability.
PSSL: Many of PSSL’s Black Friday deals are for pro lighting and trussing, but one product in particular is worth noting: it’s offering the MXL Revelation Solo Tube Condenser Microphone for only $299.99. Normally $999.95, the cardiod mic features a EF86 pentode tube, 32mm 6 micron gold sputtered capsule, and a full complement of Mogami cables.


Apple’s ambitions to build a self-driving car have reportedly shifted gears over the years, but we know the company is focusing on the software side of the equation. This June, CEO Tim Cook said the iPhone maker is building autonomous systems that could power a range of different vehicles (rather than, say, working on its own Apple-branded SUVs). “We sort of see it as the mother of all AI projects,” said Cook.
Now, new research from the company’s machine learning team confirms this direction, with a paper published on pre-print server arXiv describing a mapping system that could be put to a range of uses, including powering “autonomous navigation, housekeeping robots, and augmented / virtual reality.” Though, to be clear, this is just academic research: it doesn’t indicate that Apple is working on these particular use-cases.
The system in question is called VoxelNet, and it’s all about improving the data we get from the eyes of most self-driving systems: LIDAR sensors. These components are integral to lots of autonomous vehicles, and work by bouncing lasers off nearby objects to build a 3D model of their surroundings. They offer better depth information than regular cameras, but produce patchy maps, with large sections often rendered invisible by objects blocking the laser’s path. This leads to maps that are “sparse and have highly variable point density,” as Apple’s researchers put it. In other words, it’s not good for safe self-driving.
To overcome this problem, engineers often deploy a number of discrete systems that first divide up the 3D LIDAR data into areas of interest (split into 3D pixels known as “voxels”) and then categorize what’s in it (identifying bikes, pedestrians, street signs, and so on). Apple’s VoxelNet basically compresses these processes into a single neural network, resulting in a system that’s more efficient than its predecessors. Researchers Yin Zhou and Oncel Tuzel benchmarked VoxelNet’s performance against a number of rival programs, and it handily outperformed them.
Is it groundbreaking research for self-driving cars? Well, no, not really. Roland Meertens, a Dutch engineer who builds computer vision systems for autonomous vehicles, said the results were impressive, but pointed out that other firms have long been using different methods to overcome LIDAR’s shortcomings — including combining its 3D data with feeds from regular cameras.
“Tesla, for example, does not use LIDAR at all, but their vehicles are pretty good at lane-keeping,” Meertens told The Verge. He adds that although VoxelNet could potentially be used for self-driving cars (including Apple’s) it will be “mainly interesting for other researchers working with similar data solving different problems in other spaces.”
That makes sense considering Apple has only published it on an academic server. More interesting, perhaps, is the fact it’s public at all. Apple’s notoriously secretive corporate culture means it’s not as forthcoming about its AI work as rival tech firms like Google and Facebook. This has been a drawback for its work in AI, a community where publishing top-quality research helps attract top-quality talent. Apple has made some moves to open up a little, including starting a blog this July that spotlights key areas of its work.
So far, the blog has looked at a number of AI tools underpinning important Apple products, including face identification (for Face ID) and speech recognition (for Siri). But the company has yet to publish any research on autonomous systems on its blog — including this paper. It seems Apple is happy to conduct research on how to create detailed maps, but isn’t keen to plot out a public course for its own self-driving ambitions just yet.


The FCC has released the final draft of its proposal to destroy net neutrality. The order removes nearly every net neutrality rule on the books — internet providers will be free to experiment with fast and slow lanes, prioritize their own traffic, and block apps and services. There’s really only one rule left here: that ISPs have to publicly disclose when they’re doing these things.
In the proposal, the commission calls its 2015 net neutrality ruling a “misguided and legally flawed approach.” It repeatedly states that the 2015 order “erred,” was “incorrect,” and came to “erroneous conclusions.” Removing these rules, the commission now argues, will “facilitate critical broadband investment and innovation by removing regulatory uncertainty and lowering compliance costs.”
The proposal also argues that consumer protections simply aren’t necessary because Federal Trade Commission will now have oversight of ISPs. “The transparency requirement we adopt, together with antitrust and consumer protection laws, ensures that consumers have means to take remedial action if an ISP engages in behavior inconsistent with an open internet,” the proposal states.
So while blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization may be okay with the FCC, the commission says that ISPs will still have to answer to the FTC, which may or may not be okay with those things. At a bare minimum though, the FTC has to be at least somewhat accepting of them — a court has already ruled that blocking those things outright would treat internet providers like common carriers; and since this proposal removes the common carrier designation from internet providers, that won’t be allowed.
Net neutrality supporters have long argued that these policies could unfairly advantage ISPs’ own content. But in the proposal, the FCC says it thinks that won’t happen — simply because some web companies are so much wealthier than ISPs. “It is unlikely that any ISP, except the very largest, could exercise market power in negotiations with Google or Netflix,” the proposal says. It also argues that small web companies need not worry, because any deal made between a large web company, like Google, and an ISP would need to be consistent with antitrust laws.
Existing antitrust law is the commission’s answer for pretty much every problem that could come up. Why should the FCC have its own rules on the books, it essentially asks, if federal law already covers many of these things? That ignores something important, though: federal antitrust law isn’t used very aggressively, whereas the FCC could have strictly enforced prohibitions on anti-competitive behavior. It’s not a huge leap to say this change is designed to significantly loosen the regulatory leash around ISPs so that they can go off and try new practices, even if they may put consumers at risk.
And in a fun twist, the commission also intends to prevent states from passing their own net neutrality laws. Allowing states to implement their own rules, the commission says, “could pose an obstacle to or place an undue burden” on the delivery of broadband service.
The order will be voted on next month, at the commission’s December 14th meeting, where it’s almost certain to pass.


Two years ago, NASA made a big splash when it announced the discovery of flowing water on the surface of Mars. But it turns out, the space agency might have been wrong. The surface features that NASA thought were made up of liquid water may actually be flowing grains of sand instead, according to new research from the US Geological Survey. And that could decrease the chances of microbial life living on the Red Planet.
The features in question are dark streaks that show up periodically on Martian hills, known as recurring slope lineae, or RSLs. When one of NASA’s spacecraft, the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, studied these lines more closely, it found that the RSLs were made up of hydrated salts — meaning they were mixed with water molecules. At the time, NASA thought that was significant evidence that flowing liquid water caused these bizarre streaks.
But researchers at the USGS say these features look identical to certain types of slopes found on sand dunes here on Earth. Those slopes are caused by dry grains of sand flowing downhill, without the help of any water. It’s possible the same thing is happening on Mars, too. Since liquid water is key for life here on Earth, many thought these strange lines of flowing water may help support life on the Martian surface. But now these RSLs may not be the best place to look for life anymore.
Of course, it’s still possible that life could exist on Mars, but researchers may want to focus on other places, like under the surface. It’s thought that liquid water exists underground, where it’s a bit warmer and easier for water to stay a liquid. “Mars still has water now, it just might be in fewer accessible places,” Michael Meyer, the lead scientist for NASA’s Mars Exploration Program, tells The Verge.
The RSLs seemed to contain water because of the weird way they behave: the streaks seem to seep down the hills, a bit like water trickling downward. That, and they grow thicker in the warmer months. While Mars is pretty frigid, its temperatures can exceed -9 degrees Fahrenheit during the summer, making the surface a bit more accommodating for water. In fact, water on Mars is thought to contain a type of salt called perchlorates that can make it easier for water to exist as a liquid at colder temperatures. Scientists thought that maybe the warm summers allowed this salty water to flow.
But the USGS thinks there’s another explanation for how the streaks form: researchers studied the shapes of 151 RSLs and found that all of them are located on slopes steeper than 27 degrees. But the flows appear to stop when the slopes become less steep — which water wouldn’t do. Instead, the RSLs all seem to form at slopes similar to what you’d find with piles of sand on Earth, according to lead study author Colin Dundas. Plus, the dark streaks seem to flow out of the tops of the hills, but water probably wouldn’t sprout out of the the tops of slopes at these angles, he says. Instead, the water would probably start flowing out somewhere farther down the slope.
Researchers still think that what the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter found is solid, and that hydrated salts are involved. But they’re probably not as wet as NASA originally thought. “This suggests there isn’t a large amount of liquid water associated with RSLs,” Dundas, a research geologist with the USGS, tells The Verge. “There may be a small amount of liquid water involved... but this is pointing to a relatively dry mechanism.”
So this may mean Mars’ surface isn’t as habitable as we thought, but that doesn’t mean the search is over yet. “There are lots of things that speak to Mars at least having the potential for life early on,” says Meyer. “And if it did happen, it has the potential for life hidden deep down below the surface.”




Black Friday is upon us, but if you’ve been paying attention, you’ll have noticed that sales this year started as early as November 1st. That’s been the trend in recent years, as retailers move the start date earlier to maximize sales. What that means for the rest of us is that we need more stamina than ever to stay vigilant and alert and snatch the best deals — that is, if you want to win at Black Friday.
At The Verge, we’ve been scouring the web to bring you the best Black Friday deals in tech. While we don’t typically write about karaoke machines, massage pads, or children’s toys, with the exception of this nifty Nintendo Switch lookalike, we can confidently say now is a good time to swipe those items if you want them for the holiday season.
As retail workers will note, some of the very best deals are insider deals. If your company is holding a charity sale or if you work in retail and can apply an employee discount on top of a Black Friday discount, that’s the icing on top of the cake. For the rest of us, however, here are some general tips for winning at Black Friday.
A common way retailers get you is by saying there are “deals” when there really aren’t. This leaves you, compelled by the spirit of good spending, to decide to buy everything you see for fear the discount will disappear. A good rule of thumb is to keep a running list of products you need, like a smart speaker or a new monitor, and then note their manufacturer’s suggested retail prices (MSRP) and their actual usual prices. Then, compare them to what the prices are now during Black Friday weekend, or even from last year’s Black Friday sales for similar models.
Beware of retailers that suddenly boast the MSRP of certain products. The keyword of that acronym is “suggested,” meaning most times, things like TVs and headphones are never actually sold at the exact MSRP and often priced for less. Ads will often say something is significantly marked down, but if a 4K smart TV is now $1,000, marked down from a $2,000 suggested retail price, and it’s usually sold elsewhere at $1,020 any other time of year, then that’s not a huge bargain. That’s just business as usual.
To reiterate: just because something is advertised at 70 percent off MSRP, that doesn’t mean it’s cheaper than it has been year round. Do your research to know what’s a good deal and what isn’t. And if you’re super concerned about overspending, bring cash to the brick-and-mortar stores so you’re limited to buying just what you came for.
Newer devices like the Apple Watch Series 3 and the Nintendo Switch most likely won’t get massive discounts during Black Friday. That’s to be expected; these are relatively new products for Apple and Nintendo, and both companies are relying on them to sell like hotcakes even at full retail. Case in point, the best deal we’ve seen for the Apple Watch Series 3 was a $5 discount offered by eBay. And as of this reporting, we haven’t seen any deals for the Switch just yet. Small retailers that are offering $199 for the 42mm model of the Apple Watch Series 3 with cellular are likely a scam to be avoided. Trust your gut. If it’s too good to be true, don’t risk it.
Another general theme we’ve seen is that most new flagship smartphones won’t see an unusually steep discount — not the Samsung Galaxy S8, the Note 8, and certainly not the iPhone X. Some carriers like T-Mobile are offering mediocre deals that let you buy one and get one free if you add a line, but these are not true Black Friday deals as they’re typically offered when the phones first launch.
Keep in mind that retailers like Newegg, Best Buy, and others are likewise offering fewer discounts on new computer parts, laptops, and gaming accessories that have been out for less than half a year. This means that if you were hoping to build a gaming PC this holiday season with the latest specs like an Intel Core i7-8700k with a Nvidia GTX 1080 Ti, but you were holding off in case of deals, just go ahead and press the buy button now. That is unless Newegg’s select PC part deals or other deals listed on the subreddit /r/buildapcsales just happen to be the ones you had your eye on.
After Yahoo disclosed in October that all of its 3 billion user accounts were affected by the 2013 security breach, there became virtually no reason why anyone should continue using their Yahoo account — except for subscribing to every major retailer for emails. It’s where I keep my promotional emails from Dropbox, Starbucks, League of Legends, Hulu, and more. By keeping all these coupons in an email you’re likely to only check once a week at most, you can strike the perfect balance of staying on top of deals, but not letting them take over your life.
In the same vein, you should download the apps of all the major retailers you’re interested in so you can capitalize on app-exclusive deals. Make sure to head into Notifications to switch off push notifications. Sure, this might make you several minutes late to a few crucial deals, but it does wonders for mental health during a very hectic shopping season.
Patience, young padawan. Like a hunter stalking your prey, if you’re online shopping, keep tabs open in incognito mode and in regular mode just in case retailers are switching up prices on you. If you are banking on getting a TV this weekend, have a backup model you’ll be happy with as plan B. That way, if the one you want is sold out, you’re ready to move forward with a second option.
If you’re heading into Black Friday brick-and-mortar madness, pick a store that generally gets less traffic, and make sure you bring a water bottle, snacks, a battery pack, and a giant backpack to lug your treasures back with you.
Deals can be extremely satisfying, but not worth risking any kind of injury to obtain. That includes physical injuries by arguing with other shoppers in the store, or digital ones where you are buying from sites with poor security practices and little fraud protection. Look for HTTPS in retailer URLs, and put your purchases on one credit card to easily monitor spending.
Some deals started last week, others start now or later this weekend, so stay rested and hydrated. Check the return policies on things you buy and apply credit card cash back when possible. Whatever you do, don’t panic and impulse buy 10 Google Home Minis unless you really need them. Good luck.


The FCC received a record-breaking 22 million comments chiming in on the net neutrality debate, but from the sound of it, it’s ignoring the vast majority of them. In a call with reporters yesterday discussing its plan to end net neutrality, a senior FCC official said that 7.5 million of those comments were the exact same letter, which was submitted using 45,000 fake email addresses.
But even ignoring the potential spam, the commission said it didn’t really care about the public’s opinion on net neutrality unless it was phrased in unique legal terms. The vast majority of the 22 million comments were form letters, the official said, and unless those letters introduced new facts into the record or made serious legal arguments, they didn’t have much bearing on the decision. The commission didn’t care about comments that were only stating opinion.
The FCC has been clear all year that it’s focused on “quality” over “quantity” when it comes to comments on net neutrality. In fairness to the commission, this isn’t an open vote. It’s a deliberative process that weighs a lot of different factors to create policy that balances the interests of many stakeholders. But it still feels brazen hearing the commission staff repeatedly discount Americans’ preference for consumer protections, simply because they aren’t phrased in legal terms.
Americans by and large aren’t lawyers capable of putting together cogent legal analysis of telecommunications law, and prewritten form letters were widely offered to net neutrality supporters and opponents as a way to make their voice heard by the commission. The commission is required to accept and review public input. But if you were hoping that input would make a difference in the end, the FCC is now making it very clear that most letters it received didn’t change a thing.


The latest company to receive a permit to test self-driving cars on public roads in California only just revealed that it wanted to build its own automated driving software four months ago. Ride-hail service Lyft just popped up today at the bottom of the California DMV’s list of permit holders, a sign that the ride-hail service was preparing to test its first robot taxis.
What isn’t clear is whether Lyft will test autonomous vehicles using its own proprietary software and hardware suite, or the technology of one of its many self-driving partners. The ride-hail company has teamed up with companies like Ford, General Motors, Waymo, NuTonomy, Drive.ai, and Jaguar Land Rover, with the intention of being the platform on which those manufacturers deploy their self-driving cars. A spokesperson for Lyft did not immediately return a request for comment.
It could also be the case that Lyft simply doesn’t want to get left out of the party. California’s list of autonomous vehicle testing permit holders is a veritable who’s who of automakers and tech companies. It was only a matter of time before Lyft decided to throw its own name onto the pile.
The company’s decision to apply for a permit stands in stark contrast to its main rival Uber and the mess it created when it attempted to test its own self-driving cars in California without approval. The DMV revoked the licenses of Uber’s fleet of cars, forcing the company to eventually acquiesce and obtain a permit.


OnePlus confirmed in its forums yesterday that none of its current devices, including the 3/3T and the 5/5T, will support Project Treble, even after they're updated to Android Oreo. Project Treble is an Android Oreo feature that attempts to address slow Android update schedules by allowing manufacturers to push out Google's most recent OS without having to wait on their chip partner, like Qualcomm, to support it.
At the time of Project Treble's announcement, it seemed that any device updated to Oreo would be eligible to support the program and that manufacturers would likely be interested in it. Now, however, it's clear that even devices running the most recent OS won't have to support the project, meaning that even if your phone’s manufacturer gives you Oreo, you aren't guaranteed a faster update to the next OS. Only devices that ship with Android Oreo installed out of the box will be required to feature Project Treble, and, disappointingly, OnePlus' most recent phone, the 5T, ships with Android Nougat. (The same goes for the Razer Phone, which was announced earlier this month.)
Still, Google's first-generation Pixel phone supports Project Treble, and the Essential Phone is attempting to support the feature, even though those phones first shipped with Android Nougat. So it’s clear that adding support is possible — even if, several months after Oreo’s release, it’s still rare.
It isn't necessarily surprising that OnePlus wouldn't support Treble, given that it clearly has no problem shipping new phones with outdated operating systems, but it would have been nice to see the company commit to supporting Google's goal of faster updates and making the whole Android ecosystem more consistent and modern.


If you’re shopping for a new phone this weekend, be prepared to read some fine print. The days of straightforward discounts are over. Instead, you’re now looking at deals that require you to sign up for frequently confusing installment or leasing plans, with the discounts paying out over the course up to two years.
That’s certainly not as nice as just getting a price cut up front. But if you were planning to buy your phone on a monthly payment plan anyway, there’s not much to take issue with here. On Black Friday, you’ll be able to save several hundred dollars on some of this year’s top phones. You can check out this year’s best discounts below.
Buy a new iPhone or Galaxy phone on an AT&T or Verizon installment plan, get a free $300 Walmart gift card. For iPhones, the offers applies to the iPhone 7, 7 Plus, 8, 8 Plus, and X. For Galaxy phones, it applies to the S8, S8 Plus, and Note 8.
The year-old Galaxy S7 (32GB) is also on sale for $299 (usually $499).
Buy a Galaxy S8, S8 Plus, or Note 8 for $300 off on Verizon and Sprint installment plans.
Buy an iPhone 8 or 8 Plus for $200 off on Verizon, AT&T, and Sprint installment plans.
Buy an iPhone 6S for $150 off on Verizon, AT&T, and Sprint installment plans.
Buy an LG G6 for $119.76 on a Sprint installment plan (usually $480).
Buy a Moto Z2 Play for $191.76 on Verizon installment plan (usually $408).
Buy a Moto G Plus (64GB) for $225 (usually $300).
Buy an iPhone 8 or 8 Plus on a Verizon, AT&T, or Sprint installment plan, get a free $250 Target gift card.
Buy a Galaxy S8, Galaxy S8 Plus, or Galaxy Note 8 on on a Verizon, AT&T, or Sprint installment plan, get a free $300 Target gift card.
Verizon is offering 50 percent off the Pixel 2, Galaxy S8, and Moto Z2 Force when you sign up for an unlimited plan.
It’s also offering 35 percent off the Pixel 2 XL, Galaxy S8 Plus, and the Note 8 for those who sign up for an unlimited plan.
And finally, it’ll be offering $100 off some Android phones above $400 when bought on an installment plan, but it isn’t clear which models qualify.
Lease a Galaxy S8, S8 Plus, S8 Active, or Note 8 for 50 percent off. Be aware that the discount applies to the 18-month lease period only. If you want to pay off and purchase the phone, you’ll have to pay full price on the remaining quarter of it.
Lease a Moto Z2 Force for 50 percent off. Like the Samsung deal, this applies to the 18-month lease period only.
Lease an iPhone 8 or X for $350 off. No additional gimmicks here, though you’ll need to remain subscribed to Sprint for 18 months to get the total discount.
This is hard to really qualify as a deal, but T-Mobile will give you $300 off an iPhone X if you trade in another recent iPhone. The discount will be doled out over 24 monthly payments.
Otherwise, T-Mobile is primarily doing buy-one-get-one deals, which require opening a new line of service (something that won’t apply to most people). But if you’ve been planning to do that, now’s the time: the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, Galaxy S8, S8 Plus, S8 Active, and Note 8, and the LG V30 and G6 are all eligible. Buy one, open another line of service, and the second phone will be free. Both phones have to be purchased on installment plans, but unlike similar deals, this discount won’t be slowly rationed out over the course of two years: instead, T-Mobile will issue the rebate via a Prepaid MasterCard eight weeks after purchase; so theoretically, you’ll only need to maintain service with T-Mobile until the gift card arrives, at which point you’d be able to pay off both phones in full if you want to trade one in or switch to another carrier.
AT&T is offering a free iPhone 7 (32GB), but with a lot of strings attached: you need to remain an AT&T customer for two years, and you need to be a DirecTV customer or sign up for DirecTV. And for some reason, DirecTV Now doesn’t count.
Buy an HTC U11 for $599 ($50 off) and get a free pair of JBL Reflect Aware USB-C earbuds.
Buy a Moto Z2 Play for $400 (usually $500).
All Moto Mods are on sale for 25 percent off.
Buy a Moto G5 Plus with 32GB of storage for $200 ($30 off) or with 64GB of storage for $230 ($70 off).
Buy an LG V30 or V30 Plus, get up to $400 off another LG product.
Buy a Galaxy S8 or Note 8, get a free Gear 360.
Get $150 off the Unlocked Samsung Galaxy S8 or S8 Plus starting Thursday, November 23rd.
Google isn’t offering any Black Friday deals on the Pixel 2, but a discount is available through Verizon.
Apple is offering a $50 gift card with the purchase of an iPhone 7 or 6S.
It’s also offering a $25 gift card with the purchase of an iPhone SE.
You can find better deals elsewhere.
Update and correction November 24th, 9:45AM ET: This story has been updated to include deals from AT&T and Apple. This story has also been corrected to accurate reflect the terms of T-Mobile’s BOGO deal.


Google’s Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales this year will be all about the home. So if you’re hoping to score a deal on the new Pixel 2 smartphones during this long weekend’s shopping events, I have some bad news. In fact, it doesn’t appear that any of the Pixel-branded devices announced back in October will be discounted, or at least the company hasn’t announced anything yet and we’re just 48 hours away from kickoff.
Here’s what you can expect, though.
The best Google product to buy on Black Friday
Google will be discounting its Google Home speakers and Chromecast dongles, both of which are great stocking stuffers or an affordable gift for friends and family. The Google Home Mini, announced in October, will see the steepest discount, dropping down from $49 to $29 with a $10 store credit, which effectively makes the device as cheap as $19.
If you do not want store credit to the Google Store, a ton of retailers are also offering store credit when you buy the Mini. eBay’s price-matching offer nets you a $10 eBay gift card, while Best Buy and Target will also offer $10 store credits for future purchases. Walmart will offer $25 credit off a future order when made through Google Express. This deal essentially gets you a Google Home Mini for just $4.
Other good deals
The full-sized Google Home will also see a discount down from $129 to $79 in the Google Store, Best Buy, and Target, with Walmart offering the same $25 Google Express credit when linking your accounts. Sorry, no major discounts on the Google Home Max.
Both the Chromecast and Chromecast Audio will be discounted from $35 to $25 in the Google Store, with Walmart and Best Buy offering the best deal at $20 for the regular Chromecast dongle. The Chromecast Ultra will see its price drop from $69 to $54.
So it boils down to this: the Walmart and Google Express deal offers two coupons per household, so if you’re looking to score multiple Minis for the house, be prepared to pick your favorite retailer and stock up on the colorful little speakers.



In 1986, young Black Brooklynite Spike Lee made his first feature-length film with a small budget and big aspirations. The plot was a simple but fresh one in that decade: Lee’s leading lady flipped the script on expected gender norms by playing a character with no shame about her sexual ambition, or her focus on her own pleasure. With its black-and-white polish and its documentary-style storytelling, She’s Gotta Have It the film gave the mainstream world a glimpse of Black urban life. Now, a new Netflix series has Lee rebooting his 30-year-old storyline, viewing She’s Gotta Have It through a modern lens. But can Lee in 2017 be as groundbreaking as he was 30 years ago?
Like the film, the series centers on Nola Darling (DeWanda Wise, of Shots Fired and Underground), a beautiful young struggling Brooklyn artist who follows her own rules. She states in the beginning of the series that she doesn't “believe in one-word labels,” which is the foundation of her viewpoint on sex and relationships. She’s currently in casual relationships with three men with radically different personalities: Jamie Overstreet (Lyriq Bent, of the Saw films and Canada’s Rookie Blue) is an older investor and father in a fraying marriage. Mars Blackmon (Anthony Ramos, first to play John Laurens / Philip Hamilton in Broadway’s Hamilton) is a goofy, lighthearted sneaker enthusiast who works at a local bike shop. And Greer Childs (Cleo Anthony, of Extant and Transparent) is a self-obsessed photographer. At various points in the series, each of them are interested in committing to a relationship with Nola. But she stands firm: “If they want to deal with me, it has to be on my terms, or it ain't gonna happen.”
Moving from an 86-minute film to a 10-episode series to revamp this story, Lee makes some positive changes. This time around, Nola’s sex life is only one aspect of her identity. While the film attempts to establish Nola as an independent sexual being, Lee’s narrow focus on her romantic life deflates any character development she could have had. In the series, Nola’s life outside her bedroom is the center of the story. While waiting to see whether she’ll be awarded an important art grant, she gets a part-time teaching job. In the series, she has a broader work and social life: interacting with students, grabbing drinks with friends, taking a dance class, going to a party. This time around, she even paints. In Lee’s film, she’s an artist who never creates anything. “She talked about it, you never saw her as an artist,” Lee tells Rolling Stone. “You see Nola creating art in this.”
Some of the credit certainly goes to the Black women who wrote the five of the series’ 10 episodes. Lee wrote, edited, and directed the film on his own, but the series owes a lot to its screenwriters, including Brooklyn writer-performer Radha Blank (who scripted two episodes); actress Eisa Davis (Cynthia Driscoll on House of Cards), writer and actress Joie Lee (Lee’s sister, a fixture in his films, and Nola’s mom in the series), and Pulitzer-Prize winning playwright Lynn Nottage. Often, Nola’s free spirit ways in the film come off as a caricature of a carefree Black girl, because she’s so isolated from the world, apart from the men in her bed. In the series, she has layers. She’s part of a community instead of one man’s representation of an ideal.
And by making her richer and more complicated, the writers get a chance to bring other women into her orbit, and to make the characters around her layered as well. In the film, Clorinda Bradford was Nola’s previous roommate who moved out when she got tired of witnessing Nola’s sexual escapades. In the series, Clorinda (Margot Bingham, of Queen Sugar and Boardwalk Empire) still moves out, but she remains friends with Nola, and is an active part of her life. Clorinda also has a career as an art curator, and she uses that platform to showcase Nola’s art. Having a sister circle makes Nola a more realistic person. With female agency at the forefront of her values, it would be ridiculous for her to not have female friends. Shemekka (who gets her own arc dealing with body issues and illegal butt injections) and Rachel (the token “woke” white friend) round out her circle, adding a new dimension to Nola: interesting, supportive friendships that aren’t just about sex.
That doesn’t minimize the series’ sexuality. Casual sex is more common in media now than it was 30 years ago, but it’s still rare to see Black characters indulging in it — Black women in particular. Lee is in the director’s chair for all 10 episodes of the series, and his habit of examining people in bed via overhead shots hasn’t changed. But shooting in color, rather than the original film’s black and white, brings a new dimension to these scenes. The different hues of brown skin are highlighted in this series, as a result of Nola’s choice of lovers. We also get equal-opportunity nudity, with the men stripping down as well. (Lee says he was upfront about the male nudity with the actors from the beginning: “Particularly today, I'd be crucified if Nola's butt-naked and she's the only one — I'd be justifiably crucified. So I told the men, I said, "Yo, we got to see your ass, too." The graphic, open nudity of these sequences are reminiscent of Insecure, the current leader in showing Black female sexuality on television.
Nola stays firm about letting whoever she pleases in her “lovin bed,” including other women. Another change from the original version has Nola labeling herself as pansexual, and entering a relationship with Opal Gilstrap (Ilfenesh Hadera, of Billions, Master of None, and Baywatch). In the series, Opal is a lesbian mother who owns a plant nursery in Brooklyn. In the film, she’s a casual friend who makes a pass at Nola, and gets rejected. In the series, she feels like the most compatible of Nola’s lovers, and the one with the highest chance of working out as a long-term relationship. In therapy, Nola describes Opal as safe: “Unlike the men I’ve been dealing with, she’s not tryna own me.” It’s refreshing to see a Black queer relationship presented positively, as safe, stable, and open.
Certainly the best improvement from the original film is the removal of the unnecessary rape scene. The sequence, where Jaime sexually assaults Nola, was a step backward from the film’s attempted character development and its message of empowerment. It signaled that sexually independent Black women need to be brought down a peg, that there are consequences for Black women with agency over their bodies.
Spike Lee expressed regret over this scene in a 2014 Deadline interview: “It was just totally… stupid. I was immature. It made light of rape, and that’s the one thing I would take back. I was immature and I hate that I did not view rape as the vile act that it is.” Instead, the series includes a street harassment scene where Nola is catcalled and physically assaulted while walking home. But the series treats the incident responsibly and seriously, with Nola visibly shaken, but working through her trauma via art and therapy.
The Netflix series isn’t entirely an improvement over the original. It begins to feel aimless midway into the series. Some of the B-stories drag long, especially between episodes 5 and 9. Lee and his team keep each episode pretty lean — most clock in around 35 minutes — but some of the side stories are dull. While it’s new and juicy that Jamie’s character is a married man, for example, only half of his home life scenes are worthwhile, while the others are dry. The show even features a couple of surrealist musical / dance numbers that do nothing to progress the story. This version of She’s Gotta Have It could've easily been cut down to six or seven episodes while still maintaining its pacing and interest.
This isn’t the only Netflix series that’s given a director a chance to revisit prior works. From Wet Hot American Summer: 10 Years Later to Fuller House to The Magic School Bus Rides Again, the streaming service has been a safe space for reboots and continuations, for creators trying again. This particular series is reminiscent of Dear White People, which Justin Simien originally made as a film, then brought to Netflix to flesh out the main characters. Dear White People chose the prequel route, developing the core characters leading up to the movie’s infamous blackface party. With She’s Gotta Have It, Lee instead chose to retell the story with more background information and better developed characters. Both series reinvigorate their stories; they just take different tacks.
The premise of She’s Gotta Have It feels more socially accepted than it was 30 years ago, but the new series still adds fresh blood. Lee’s creation adapts well to its new era, and where it’s necessary, the creators revamp the story to take it further than the original. And to this day, there still aren’t enough stories about women owning their sexual agency. While not as groundbreaking as it was 30 years ago, She’s Gotta Have It is part of a rising tide of media that gives Black women the opportunity to headline the story and call the shots.
Netflix’s She’s Gotta Have It premieres on November 23rd, 2017. Lee’s original film is also streaming on Netflix as of this writing.


Google’s search algorithms have been haphazard for a long time, but over the past year we’ve seen a number of incidents where top results are spreading wildly inaccurate and offensive material. The latest has Google highlighting an offensive meme from the sjwhate subreddit as part of its search result for the “gender fluid” query. The offensive image is the first thing you see for the term, alongside a Wikipedia entry.
The slip-up comes just a month after Google briefly gave its “top stories” stamp of approval to two 4chan threads identifying the wrong suspect in the recent Las Vegas mass shooting tragedy. This latest search result problem appears to be related to the company’s snippet feature. Featured snippets are designed to answer queries instantly, and they’ve often provided bad answers in the past. Google’s Home device, for example, used a featured snippet to answer the question “are women evil?” with the horrendously bad answer “every woman has some degree of prostitute in her.”
So why does this keep happening? As my colleague Adi Robertson points out, Google’s original PageRank algorithm was built to deliver the most popular and influential results for any search query regardless of accuracy. The algorithm has developed into providing instant results, and we’ve seen those algorithms manipulated by third parties or duped by inaccurate sources.
The dominance and popularity of Google means people use the company’s name as a transitive verb to define information searches. And with little competition, Google becomes the de facto source for all the answers we seek. People trust Google more than most tech companies, as highlighted in a recent Verge survey, thereby giving its search results and featured snippets an enhanced sense of authority.
While Facebook understandably receives a lot of attention for the “fake news” epidemic, Google’s search results are a big part of this problem. Google has an important role to play in managing its own platform and internet search results correctly, and over the past year its shown it has a lot of work to do.
“Featured snippets are algorithmically generated and are intended as a way to find the information you need more quickly,” says a Google spokesperson. “We’re always working to improve our processes, and we welcome feedback on misleading or low quality information. If a particular Featured Snippet is in violation of our policies, we take action to remove.” The offensive image appears to have now been removed from the search result.
Update, 9AM ET: Google statement added to article.


In the latest case of a product to be filed under “of course this exists,” Casio has announced a rugged action camera heavily influenced by its iconic G-Shock brand. Though the G'z Eye GZE-1 takes its name from Casio's line of sturdy smartphones, its design comes straight from the company's tough watches.
The GZE-1 isn't the most capable action camera in the world — it shoots 1080p at 30fps, 480p at 120fps, and 6-megapixel photos — but with 50 meters (164 feet) of waterproofing and 4 meters (13 feet) of shockproofing, it's one of the toughest. At 190.8 degrees, the f/2.8 lens is also wider than those of most action cameras. And if you happen to have Casio's latest Pro Trek Android Wear watch, you can use it as a viewfinder; in the likely event that you don't, there'll be a G'z Eye app for your phone.
Casio hasn't announced a global release date or pricing for the GZE-1 just yet, but it costs 46,000 yen in Japan, so you should probably expect the US price to be set at around $400.


Google is bringing its artificial intelligence-powered Lens tool to all Pixel and Pixel 2 phones in the coming weeks as part of an update to Google Assistant, the company announced today in a blog post. Lens, which was first unveiled back in May at the company’s I/O developer conference, is an computer vision system that lets you point your Pixel or Pixel 2 camera at an object and get information about it in real time, as the AI-powered algorithm is capable of recognizing real-world items.
Lens was first made available within Google Photos last month as part of the Pixel 2 launch, and now Google says Lens will soon arrive as a built-in feature of Google Assistant starting in the US, UK, Australia, Canada, India, and Singapore “in the coming weeks,” the blog post reads.
Right now, Lens won’t be able to identify everything around you. Google says it’s best used on simple items to start. It can identify text, for when you want to save information from business cards, save a URL from a poster or flier, call a phone number written down on paper, or open Google Maps with directions to a written address. Lens can also identify notable landmarks and can pull up information websites and media for art, books, and movies by pointing the camera at film posters, book covers, and museum installations.
Lens also works as a more efficient barcode and QR code scanner. Down the line, Google says Lens will only improve as it learns more about our surroundings and becomes more adept at identifying people, objects, and any manner of other things in the real world.


Russian communications agency Roskomnadzor has reportedly asked Google to clarify a statement from Alphabet executive chairman Eric Schmidt, who suggested the search engine would downrank results from government-funded media outlets RT and Sputnik.
Agency head Alexander Zharov told the Interfax news service that his office sent a letter requesting more detail about comments Schmidt made to an audience at the Halifax International Security Forum, Reuters writes. “We will receive an answer and understand what to do next,” Zhorov said, according to Interfax. “We hope our opinion will be heard, and we won’t have to resort to more serious” retaliation.
Schmidt was responding to an audience member who mentioned Sputnik’s prominence in Google news alerts and questioned its participation in Google Adsense monetization. “We're well aware of this one, and we're working on detecting this kind of scenario you're describing, and again, de-ranking those kinds of sites,” said Schmidt. “It's basically RT and Sputnik are the two, and there's a whole bunch of coverage about what we're doing there. But we're well aware of it, we're trying to engineer the systems to prevent it. We don’t want to ban the sites; that's not how we operate.”
Sputnik quotes Zharov as saying that he will wait to “see how discriminating this measure will be in its practical embodiment” before taking future action.
Other companies and organizations, including US intelligence agencies, have accused Sputnik and RT of spreading politically motivated misinformation and propaganda. Twitter banned the two broadcasters from its advertising network last month, citing a need to “help protect the integrity of the user experience,” though they remain members of the platform itself.
Google spokesperson Andrea Faville told Reuters that Schmidt’s comments referred to general search ranking improvements that were announced in April, including moves to promote “authoritative” pages and demote “low-quality content.” Google declined to comment on the letter to The Verge, but Faville reiterated that Schmidt was talking about “ongoing efforts to improve search quality,” and that there were “no concrete plans to share” about the process. “We don't change our algorithms to re-rank individual sites,” she said.


Uber suffered a large-scale cyberattack in October of 2016 that exposed the confidential data of 57 million customers and drivers, the company disclosed today in a statement following a damning Bloomberg report. Among Uber’s faults include not only failing to disclose the hack, but in covering it up as well. Former CEO Travis Kalanick was informed of the attack just one month after it transpired, but it was not publicly announced and in fact was concealed by Chief Security Officer Joe Sullivan and his subordinates, the report says, leading Uber to fire the executive and one of his lieutenants this week.
The company allegedly paid its hackers a $100,000 ransom to delete the data and not publicize the breach to media or regulators. “None of this should have happened, and I will not make excuses for it,” current CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, who replaced Kalanick as chief exec back in September, writes in the company’s statement. “We are changing the way we do business.” Uber reportedly declined to identify the attackers.
The hack included names, email addresses, and phone numbers of more than 50 million Uber riders worldwide, while more than 7 million Uber drivers had similar data exposed on top of driver’s license numbers for around 600,000 US drivers. Bloomberg says Uber, at the time of the breach, was talking with US regulators over separate privacy violations and had just settled with the Federal Trade Commission over mishandling of consumer data, leading Sullivan to spearhead a cover-up to avoid further fallout over its security and privacy practices. Uber’s board of directors initiated an investigation of Sullivan’s team last month, leading to disclosure of the hack and its concealment.
The nature of the hack is relatively straightforward, according to Bloomberg: hackers with access to a public GitHub code repository used by Uber engineers were able to collect private login credentials to an Amazon cloud computing server, from which the hackers stole a list of rider and driver data. They then extorted Uber for the $100,000 fee. Khosrowshahi, alongside the company’s new executive leadership, have already informed the New York attorney general and the FTC of the attack. The company also says its chief legal officer, who is leaving the company and will have a replacement starting tomorrow, was never informed of the situation. Following the disclosure, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman confirmed to TechCrunch that it has opened an investigation into the hack and subsequent failure to report it.
“At the time of the incident, we took immediate steps to secure the data and shut down further unauthorized access by the individuals. We also implemented security measures to restrict access to and strengthen controls on our cloud-based storage accounts,” Khosrowshahi explains. “While I can’t erase the past, I can commit on behalf of every Uber employee that we will learn from our mistakes.” Uber has brought on a former lawyer for the National Security Agency, who also served as a director for the National Counterterrorism Center, to help it buff up security. The company has also retained security firm Mandiant to further investigate the hack.
Update at 5:41PM ET, 11/21: Added confirmation from Uber and a link to the company’s statement on its website.
Update at 8:06PM ET, 11/21: Added confirmation that New York AG Eric Schneiderman has opened an investigation into the cyberattack and its cover up.


The Justice Department’s lawsuit seeking to block the AT&T–Time Warner merger, filed this week, has suddenly scrambled political battle lines and set up a historic legal fight in a quickly unfolding showdown. If approved, the merger would create a new entertainment powerhouse, as AT&T uses its distribution channels for Time Warner-owned content like CNN and HBO. If denied, it could set a new precedent for how similar mergers are approached.
Both parties have arguments that lean on years of precedent and context — and recent comments from President Trump may also be a factor. Here’s what you need to know to understand the legal dispute.
The Justice Department’s argument, which it lays out in the complaint filed this week, is fairly straightforward: if AT&T is allowed to go forward with the transaction, it will be able to unilaterally price out competitors who might otherwise offer content owned by Time Warner. Anti-competitive deals like that are unlawful, it argues.
AT&T, the Department continues, could increase the price for, say, cable channels, harming every distributor who isn’t AT&T but who wants those channels. Right now, if a price is too high, a distributor of those cable channels can walk away from the transaction. But if the merger were approved, AT&T would be at a distinct advantage: it might be the only distributor offering a package with those channels.
The Justice Department encapsulates the idea early on in its complaint:
If allowed to proceed, this merger will harm consumers by substantially lessening competition among traditional video distributors and slowing emerging online competition. After the merger, the merged company would have the power to make its video distributor rivals less competitive by raising their costs, resulting in even higher monthly bills for American families. The merger also would enable the merged firm to hinder the growth of online distributors that it views as a threat to the traditional pay-TV model.
Some observers have sided with the Department on that thesis. “That the Justice Department should seek divestitures would — absent the Trump effect — seem logical, commendable and a continuation of recent merger practice,” author and Columbia professor Tim Wu wrote in a New York Times op-ed earlier this month.
In a statement, AT&T leaned on antitrust history to suggest that the Justice Department was taking action that was unprecedented in the modern era. Calling the lawsuit “inexplicable,” the company pointed out that the Justice Department has not taken similar “vertical” mergers to court, where the companies don’t directly compete, for decades. In the meantime, the Department approved “hundreds” of such deals, AT&T said.
The company also made the claim that the deal would ultimately increase competition, as the landscape is already competitive. AT&T points to both giant corporations like Comcast, as well as streaming services like Netflix, as evidence that consumers won’t be harmed by the merger. “Against this backdrop, there is no realistic possibility that AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner’s modest portion of a rapidly-expanding content universe could possibly slow innovation or lead to higher consumer prices,” the company said in a statement.
Hanging over the entire lawsuit is President Trump, who has expressed disdain for Time Warner-owned CNN, and has said in the past the he believes the merger should be blocked. As a candidate, Trump said the merger was “a deal we will not approve in my administration, because it’s too much concentration of power in the hands of too few.” Reports said the Justice Department demanded Time Warner divest itself of some properties, possibly including CNN, before it would approve the deal. AT&T has said it wouldn’t make a deal on those terms, and Trump has denied making the decision to intervene.
The situation immediately raised questions about whether the Justice Department’s lawsuit was politically motivated — a way for the Trump administration to damage CNN. Although it’s unclear how well that argument would play out in court, the motivations behind the lawsuit will likely continue to be scrutinized.
While it’s true that the government rarely fights such vertical mergers in court, regulators have not sidestepped involvement in such deals entirely. AT&T notes that its deal is similar to the 2011 merger between Comcast and NBC Universal. The Justice Department ultimately approved that deal, and AT&T argues that its merger proposal is much less controversial.
Still, the Comcast deal didn’t come without strings: regulators imposed several conditions meant to stop the company from using its new power to quash upstarts like Netflix. (Those conditions will finally expire next year.) Harold Feld, senior vice president at nonprofit Public Knowledge, which opposes the deal, notes that divestiture is one possible substitute for “behavioral” antitrust remedies, which the Obama administration was fond of. The current head of the antitrust division has said he doesn’t agree with that approach.
However it turns out, the case will likely become a milestone in antitrust law. A win for AT&T would contribute to a consolidated industry, and likely make related cases harder to win in the future. Similarly, successfully blocking the merger could set the tone for the Trump administration’s future antitrust efforts. “This is certainly a signal that the DOJ is going to be a lot less willing to negotiate and is going to insist instead on divestitures,” Feld says.



John Lasseter, chief creative officer of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, is taking a six-month leave of absence in the wake of complaints about his professional behavior. According to The Hollywood Reporter, Lasseter announced the news in a staff memo on Tuesday, where he admitted to “missteps” and behavior that left employees feeling “disrespected or uncomfortable.”
“I’ve recently had a number of difficult conversations that have been very painful for me. It’s never easy to face your missteps, but it’s the only way to learn from them,” he writes in the memo. “Collectively, you mean the world to me, and I deeply apologize if I have let you down. I especially want to apologize to anyone who has ever been on the receiving end of an unwanted hug or any other gesture they felt crossed the line in any way, shape, or form. No matter how benign my intent, everyone has the right to set their own boundaries and have them respected.”
Lasseter has been a creative force in animation since the 1980s. As an early employee of Pixar, he directed the first two Toy Story films, and he’s been a core member of the company’s creative brain trust since the company was founded. When Disney bought Pixar in 2006, Lasseter became chief creative officer of both Pixar and Disney Animation. After taking on dual duties, he has overseen a creative revitalization of Disney’s animated output, leading to films like Frozen, Tangled, and Wreck-It Ralph.
But a second story from the Reporter details complaints about Lasseter’s behavior toward women going back more than a decade. Lasseter is described as an enthusiastic hugger, but the allegations go far beyond that. According to the story, women in the company resorted to a move they nicknamed “The Lasseter” to prevent the executive from putting his hands on their legs without consent, while another source stated photos from company events had been strategically cropped to remove evidence of impropriety.
The story also alleges that writer and actor Rashida Jones — who co-wrote the upcoming Toy Story 4 — left the project after the executive made an unwanted advance toward her.
The news comes as Hollywood is undergoing a massive shake-up in the wake of sexual assault allegations against producer Harvey Weinstein. In the weeks since that story first broke, Amazon Studios head Roy Price was forced to step down after allegations about his behavior became public, while actor Kevin Spacey was fired from House of Cards and dropped by his representatives after multiple stories alleged sexual assault and other behavior. Comedian Louis CK also admitted to long-standing rumors about his treatment of women, leading to the canceled release of his latest film and the collapse of deals with FX and HBO.
The throughline in most of these stories — other then powerful men abusing that power — is the entertainment industry’s quick-snap reaction to cut ties with the individuals in question. (Director Ridley Scott even went so far as to recast Spacey’s role in a movie that was already shot, and is set to come out next month.) While it’s taken some time for that momentum to build in the wake of the original Weinstein accusations, in Louis CK’s case, the network FX made a move within a day.
While the current allegations against Lasseter are not as extreme as the ones CK admitted to, they nevertheless present a tremendous problem for Disney and Pixar. Not only would it be difficult to restore a culture of trust given the long-standing nature of the allegations, but Lasseter has also become an increasingly visible surrogate for both Pixar and Disney, frequently introducing the company’s animated films at events like the annual D23 Expo convention. That fact alone practically ensures that the Lasseter news will engulf coverage of Pixar’s latest film, Coco, which is scheduled to open on Thanksgiving. There have been no announcements about formal investigations into Lasseter’s behavior.


I’m driving a new 2017 Mercedes E300 today, and it comes with a built-in wireless charger, which is a nice feature for a $60,000 car. Now, let’s overlook the poor placement of the charger — buried behind the cupholders, for some reason — and get to the main issue.
If you have an iPhone 8 or iPhone X, which come with wireless charging, you can charge your phone on the pad, unlike previous iPhones. But there is a major flaw that keeps driving me crazy, and it’s Apple Pay. Since the charging pad also has NFC, the iPhone thinks you’re trying to pay for something and automatically activates Apple Pay every time you put the phone down to charge.
Seems like a small issue, right? Well if you’re playing music in your car from your phone, as one might do, activating Apple Pay will automatically pause the music, because I guess Apple thinks you should be polite to the cashier (you should).
Back to the main point: in a 2017 Mercedes E-Class that starts at $52,000, you cannot put your phone down on a wireless charger without activating Apple Pay and pausing your music.
So, how will it fix this? Apple sure as hell isn’t going to change the way Apple Pay functions, and Mercedes seemingly doesn’t have a way to deactivate NFC. Your options are either to reach behind the cupholder to where the phone sits and deactivate Apple Pay and hit play on your music every time you put your phone on the charger without crashing, or use an old-fashioned wired charger to keep your iPhone topped off.
Neither of these options is fun.


Next month is gonna be a big one at the FCC. In addition to getting rid of net neutrality, the commission will also vote on a proposal to begin reconsidering the broadcast ownership cap. Depending on what the commission decides next year, the outcome could lead to far more consolidation of local TV stations, resulting in fewer independent voices.
The FCC has something called the “national TV ownership rule” that prevents one company from owning broadcast TV stations that reach more than 39 percent of US households. Due to some loopholes (that are at least somewhat related to the 1989 Weird Al film UHF), broadcasters can already reach more than 39 percent of households, though it requires some careful purchasing. The commission seems ready to do away with this loophole and instead just raise the cap — if not get rid of it altogether.
FCC chairman Ajit Pai has been skeptical of the need for an ownership cap in 2017. While the cap helps protect independent voices in broadcast TV, Pai has argued that it makes no sense when these companies are competing with nationwide cable networks and global online news sources. The internet enables everyone to reach a huge audience, the argument goes, so a rule like this is no longer necessary.
But there’s still been concern, since broadcast TV is a limited resource and serves different audiences. In particular, focus has been on the broadcasting giant Sinclair, which is butting up against the media cap and is looking to continue expanding. The company has been criticized for forcing its affiliates to play wildly slanted right-wing segments, and it looks like Sinclair is nearing in on becoming another conservative media giant.
Whether that happens will depend in part on the outcome of the FCC’s forthcoming proposal. It’ll be voted on at the commission’s December 14th meeting, after which the public will be able to comment for several months. The commission will release a final proposal sometime next year.


John Lasseter, chief creative officer of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, is taking a six-month leave of absence in the wake of complaints about his professional behavior. According to The Hollywood Reporter, Lasseter announced the news in a staff memo on Tuesday, where he admitted to “missteps” and behavior that left employees feeling “disrespected or uncomfortable.”
“I’ve recently had a number of difficult conversations that have been very painful for me. It’s never easy to face your missteps, but it’s the only way to learn from them,” he writes in the memo. “Collectively, you mean the world to me, and I deeply apologize if I have let you down. I especially want to apologize to anyone who has ever been on the receiving end of an unwanted hug or any other gesture they felt crossed the line in any way, shape, or form. No matter how benign my intent, everyone has the right to set their own boundaries and have them respected.”
Lasseter has been a creative force in animation since the 1980s. As an early employee of Pixar, he directed the first two Toy Story films, and he’s been a core member of the company’s creative brain trust since the company was founded. When Disney bought Pixar in 2006, Lasseter became chief creative officer of both Pixar and Disney Animation. After taking on dual duties, he has overseen a creative revitalization of Disney’s animated output, leading to films like Frozen, Tangled, and Wreck-It Ralph.
But a second story from the Reporter details complaints about Lasseter’s behavior toward women going back more than a decade. Lasseter is described as an enthusiastic hugger, but the allegations go far beyond that. According to the story, women in the company resorted to a move they nicknamed “The Lasseter” to prevent the executive from putting his hands on their legs without consent, while another source stated photos from company events had been strategically cropped to remove evidence of impropriety.
The story also alleges that writer and actor Rashida Jones — who co-wrote the upcoming Toy Story 4 — left the project after the executive made an unwanted advance toward her.
The news comes as Hollywood is undergoing a massive shake-up in the wake of sexual assault allegations against producer Harvey Weinstein. In the weeks since that story first broke, Amazon Studios head Roy Price was forced to step down after allegations about his behavior became public, while actor Kevin Spacey was fired from House of Cards and dropped by his representatives after multiple stories alleged sexual assault and other behavior. Comedian Louis CK also admitted to long-standing rumors about his treatment of women, leading to the canceled release of his latest film and the collapse of deals with FX and HBO.
The throughline in most of these stories — other then powerful men abusing that power — is the entertainment industry’s quick-snap reaction to cut ties with the individuals in question. (Director Ridley Scott even went so far as to recast Spacey’s role in a movie that was already shot, and is set to come out next month.) While it’s taken some time for that momentum to build in the wake of the original Weinstein accusations, in Louis CK’s case, the network FX made a move within a day.
While the current allegations against Lasseter are not as extreme as the ones CK admitted to, they nevertheless present a tremendous problem for Disney and Pixar. Not only would it be difficult to restore a culture of trust given the long-standing nature of the allegations, but Lasseter has also become an increasingly visible surrogate for both Pixar and Disney, frequently introducing the company’s animated films at events like the annual D23 Expo convention. That fact alone practically ensures that the Lasseter news will engulf coverage of Pixar’s latest film, Coco, which is scheduled to open on Thanksgiving. There have been no announcements about formal investigations into Lasseter’s behavior.


I’m driving a new 2017 Mercedes E300 today, and it comes with a built-in wireless charger, which is a nice feature for a $60,000 car. Now, let’s overlook the poor placement of the charger — buried behind the cupholders, for some reason — and get to the main issue.
If you have an iPhone 8 or iPhone X, which come with wireless charging, you can charge your phone on the pad, unlike previous iPhones. But there is a major flaw that keeps driving me crazy, and it’s Apple Pay. Since the charging pad also has NFC, the iPhone thinks you’re trying to pay for something and automatically activates Apple Pay every time you put the phone down to charge.
Seems like a small issue, right? Well if you’re playing music in your car from your phone, as one might do, activating Apple Pay will automatically pause the music, because I guess Apple thinks you should be polite to the cashier (you should).
Back to the main point: in a 2017 Mercedes E-Class that starts at $52,000, you cannot put your phone down on a wireless charger without activating Apple Pay and pausing your music.
So, how will it fix this? Apple sure as hell isn’t going to change the way Apple Pay functions, and Mercedes seemingly doesn’t have a way to deactivate NFC. Your options are either to reach behind the cupholder to where the phone sits and deactivate Apple Pay and hit play on your music every time you put your phone on the charger without crashing, or use an old-fashioned wired charger to keep your iPhone topped off.
Neither of these options is fun.


Next month is gonna be a big one at the FCC. In addition to getting rid of net neutrality, the commission will also vote on a proposal to begin reconsidering the broadcast ownership cap. Depending on what the commission decides next year, the outcome could lead to far more consolidation of local TV stations, resulting in fewer independent voices.
The FCC has something called the “national TV ownership rule” that prevents one company from owning broadcast TV stations that reach more than 39 percent of US households. Due to some loopholes (that are at least somewhat related to the 1989 Weird Al film UHF), broadcasters can already reach more than 39 percent of households, though it requires some careful purchasing. The commission seems ready to do away with this loophole and instead just raise the cap — if not get rid of it altogether.
FCC chairman Ajit Pai has been skeptical of the need for an ownership cap in 2017. While the cap helps protect independent voices in broadcast TV, Pai has argued that it makes no sense when these companies are competing with nationwide cable networks and global online news sources. The internet enables everyone to reach a huge audience, the argument goes, so a rule like this is no longer necessary.
But there’s still been concern, since broadcast TV is a limited resource and serves different audiences. In particular, focus has been on the broadcasting giant Sinclair, which is butting up against the media cap and is looking to continue expanding. The company has been criticized for forcing its affiliates to play wildly slanted right-wing segments, and it looks like Sinclair is nearing in on becoming another conservative media giant.
Whether that happens will depend in part on the outcome of the FCC’s forthcoming proposal. It’ll be voted on at the commission’s December 14th meeting, after which the public will be able to comment for several months. The commission will release a final proposal sometime next year.


New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman revealed today that his office has been investigating a flood of spam FCC comments that impersonated real people, and criticized the FCC for withholding useful information. In an open letter addressing FCC chairman Ajit Pai, Schneiderman writes that his office has spent six months investigating who submitted hundreds of thousands of identical anti-net neutrality comments under the names and addresses of unwitting Americans. But he says that the FCC has ignored multiple requests for logs and records, offering “no substantive response.”
Schneiderman argues that the fake comments constitute illegal impersonation and misuse of a person’s identity, and that “tens of thousands” of New York state residents are potentially affected. “The perpetrator or perpetrators attacked what is supposed to be an open public process by attempting to drown out and negate the views of the real people, businesses, and others who honestly commented on this important issue,” he writes. Using real names to do it is “akin to identity theft, and it happened on a massive scale.”
He says that his office first contacted the FCC in June, and has made at least nine requests between June and November, seeking confidential access to records related to the FCC’s comment system. “Yet we have received no substantive response to our investigative requests. None,” he says. Schneiderman didn’t specify how exactly these records might help the investigation, but he says they are “necessary” to figure out who was behind the comments.
Schneiderman’s statement was posted soon after the FCC announced plans to repeal net neutrality rules next month, weakening or possibly eliminating rules that stop ISPs from selectively slowing or blocking web traffic. He says this letter isn’t meant to be a political statement about these rules, but it implies that the FCC made its decision based on invalid information. “The process the FCC has employed to consider potentially sweeping alterations to current net neutrality rules has been corrupted by the fraudulent use of Americans’ identities  —  and the FCC has been unwilling to assist my office in our efforts to investigate this unlawful activity,” he writes.
People whose names were attached to fake comments have previously urged the FCC to run its own investigation into the comments, and Sen. Frank Pallone (D-NJ) requested an FBI probe in June. But the FCC has stayed generally quiet about the issue, and the agency didn’t immediately return an emailed request for comment about this latest news.
Public comments played a huge role in helping pass strong net neutrality rules in 2015, but this time around, the process was a mess. Many comments were made under assumed names or disposable email addresses, and the system briefly crashed in early May, when the FCC claimed it had been hit with a denial-of-service attack. The agency also said that it wasn’t basing its proposal on the quantity of submissions supporting or opposing net neutrality — which means it may well argue that the fake comments are a moot point.


Following a test this past summer and a wider rollout in late October that allowed Instagram friends to live stream together, the service today is adding the option for you to request to join a pal’s live stream, just in case you believe your presence is required.
Instagram’s live mode works a lot like Periscope, which allows people to watch a user’s live stream and send comments or hearts. Today’s update allows the live streamer to add a request button on their page so friends can request to jump in on their solo stream if they didn’t invite anyone to go live with them from the start. Once accepted, the stream divides in half (either horizontally or vertically, based on the orientation you’re watching the stream).
New! When watching a friend’s live video, tap the “Request” button to let them know you'd like to join in. pic.twitter.com/Xb6S969YJU
Currently, Instagram only supports multi-user live-streaming between two friends, so someone you do not follow back cannot request to be in your stream. But unless you really want someone to join you, the requests might get annoying, so turn the button on at your discretion.


The FTC is reportedly looking into TripAdvisor after the company censored reports of rape and sexual harassment at resorts around the world. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports that in a letter sent last week to Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), the FTC said:
“When consumers are unable to post honest reviews about a business, it can harm other consumers whose abilities to make well-informed purchase decisions are hindered and harm businesses that work hard to earn positive reviews.”
TripAdvisor issued a statement to The Verge today saying:
"We are not aware of an inquiry by the Federal Trade Commission nor have they contacted us.  TripAdvisor is a global user-generated content platform that enables travelers to post positive and negative reviews and forum content about their experiences.  We receive 290 pieces of content a minute and need to ensure that information posted on our site adheres to our content guidelines to ensure the integrity of these posts.  We stand by our publishing guidelines and how they are applied.
The FTC declined to comment on TripAdvisor.
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel first broke the TripAdvisor story a few weeks ago, and since then, the vacation-planning company introduced a badge system to flag hotels that had negative reviews published about them, particularly those that involved assault, harassment, or discrimination. Those badges only last for three months at a time. The company also clarified that its "family friendly" language requirement no longer exists and that all previously deleted posts were reinstated.
Still, the Wisconsin-based newspaper says dozens of additional people have come forward since the initial report, claiming that their forum posts were also censored.
Update 11/21 4:08 PM ET: Updated to include TripAdvisor's statement.
Correction 11/22 12:47 PM ET: Updated to change the headline. We previously said the FTC was investigating the company, but a formal investigation has not been announced. The agency has also not issued any official statement on whether or not it's looking into the trip-planning company.


After an appearance in David Ayer’s Suicide Squad last year, DC fan favorite Harley Quinn will be returning to her roots in her own 26-episode animated series.
The currently untitled show will be featured exclusively on the digital streaming service DC is launching next year. That makes it the third series announced thus far, alongside the live-action show Titans, and the animated Young Justice: Outsiders. The series will be headed by Justin Halpern, Patrick Schumacker, and Dean Lorey, who previously collaborated on DC’s superhero comedy Powerless.
The new Harley Quinn series will be loosely inspired by the current comics, where the character has cut ties with the Joker and is roughing it in Gotham City alongside her bestie Poison Ivy and other familiar DC characters. Over the last four years, Jimmy Palmiotti and Amanda Conner have given Quinn a more independent vibe in the comics, far from the character’s origins as the Joker’s sidekick in Batman: The Animated Series. (Conner actually drew the above concept art, though DC points out in its press release that the final show may not end up taking this same visual direction.)
According to Deadline, executives hope to bring in Margot Robbie, who played Quinn in Suicide Squad, to voice the character in the new series. It’s all part of a full-court press to take advantage of the character’s popularity as much as possible. Along with the new animated series, there is also an upcoming animated Batman & Harley Quinn movie and a live-action film that will detail the Joker and Quinn’s love affair. Hopefully, any of the projects that Robbie takes part in will sidestep the scathing critiques that Suicide Squad itself earned when it came out last year.



One year after a ProPublica investigation found that Facebook lets housing advertisers exclude users by race, a separate follow-up investigation found that the social network has barely changed any of its practices. The new story, published today, details how ProPublica was able to purchase targeted housing ads that excluded groups like African-Americans, Jews, and Spanish speakers, among others. Such ad targeting for housing is a violation of the federal Fair Housing Act, because of long-standing discriminatory practices in the real estate and rental industries that disadvantage black, Asian, and Latino renters.
Facebook, which just earlier this month launched a revamped housing category on its new Craigslist competitor, owned up to its mistake in a statement from Ami Vora, a vice president of product management at Facebook, given to the The Verge:
This was a failure in our enforcement and we’re disappointed that we fell short of our commitments. Earlier this year, we added additional safeguards to protect against the abuse of our multicultural affinity tools to facilitate discrimination in housing, credit and employment. The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure. Our safeguards, including additional human reviewers and machine learning systems have successfully flagged millions of ads and their effectiveness has improved over time. Tens of thousands of advertisers have confirmed compliance with our tighter restrictions, including that they follow all applicable laws. We don’t want Facebook to be used for discrimination and will continue to strengthen our policies, hire more ad reviewers, and refine machine learning tools to help detect violations. Our systems continue to improve but we can do better. While we currently require compliance notifications of advertisers that seek to place ads for housing, employment, and credit opportunities, we will extend this requirement to all advertisers who choose to exclude some users from seeing their ads on Facebook to also confirm their compliance with our anti-discrimination policies — and the law.
The investigation is just the latest in a series of reports detailing how Facebook’s algorithm-driven ad network is susceptible to bad actors, including foreign governments and propaganda-peddling fake news machines.
But the investigation found that the company, despite claims to update policies and increase enforcement of its rules, did very little to substantially alter how housing ads are placed on Facebook. The company said all the way back in November of last year, after ProPublica’s initial report, that it would no longer allow ads for housing, credit, or employment that target based on “ethnic affinity,” the loose term Facebook uses to identify race-related profiles built using user-reported information.
In February of this year, Facebook updated its ad policies further to “make it clear that advertisers may not discriminate against people based on personal attributes such as race, ethnicity, color, national origin, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, family status, disability, medical or genetic condition.” Yet ProPublica found that you are still able to do just that, despite Facebook’s new algorithmic review system that is supposedly designed to flag these ads. Nearly all of the test ads, which were immediately removed following the investigation, were approved within minutes.
In fact, the only meaningful change Facebook appears to have made is a cosmetic one: the company renamed “ethnic affinity” to “multicultural affinity” and relocated the category under “Behaviors.” (Previously it was listed under “Demographics.”) In other words, Facebook simply reframed the concept of race as something its user exhibit as a behavioral trait, which doesn’t seem to have a meaningful distinction from what it used to describe.
The company has historically gone to great lengths to avoid saying advertisers can target based on race, using euphemisms like ethnic affinity. Still, advertisers are widely able to read between the lines, like when Universal Pictures marketed different Straight Outta Compton trailers last year for the “white” and the “African-American” ethnic affinities.
While it’s not illegal to perform this type of targeting for films — companies to do so all the time on television — housing is a different story. The Fair Housing Act prohibits discriminatory housing ads alongside those for employment and credit. However, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, now headed by Trump-appointed Ben Carson, has turned a blind eye toward Facebook, closing its inquiry into the company’s practices. That means it’s largely up to investigative journalists, watch dogs, and advocacy groups to hold the company accountable.
In one particularly egregious example, ProPublica was even able to go so far as drafting housing ads based on New York City ZIP codes, cross-checking the neighborhoods with US Census data to ensure the ad would be excluding predominantly black and Hispanic neighborhoods. The discriminatory practice is known as redlining and it stretches back decades in America, depriving immigrant and minority communities of vital services like access to banking, health care, and food. Facebook approved the ads immediately, ProPublica says.
Update at 5:37PM ET, 11/21: Added full statement from Facebook.


Facebook Messenger has gotten a bunch of upgrades over the past year, and now you can add the ability to send higher-resolution photos to the list. Starting today, Facebook is rolling out the ability to send “4K” photos on the Messenger app in the US, Canada, France, Australia, the UK, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, and South Korea. The company says it will also be introduced to additional countries in the coming weeks.
Previously, Facebook says Messenger only supported "2K" photo uploads. But with the update, the app will now support a maximum resolution of up to 4096 x 4096 pixels. It gives a few examples to point out the difference in clarity and sharpness. On the left is how Messenger would previously send a photo, and on the right is with the higher resolution. When zoomed in, the photos’ edges are definitely crisper, and gradients appear smoother. You’ll have to make sure you’re updated to the latest version of the Messenger app in order to send and share photos in the newly supported resolution.


ProtonMail, a secure email service, is launching an encrypted contacts manager today for its users. The manager provides "zero access" to contacts, ProtonMail says, meaning the company can't view what users have saved. It also features a digital signature that should prevent anyone from compromising or tampering with contact details.
ProtonMail says attackers could compromise a user's communications by editing a contact's email address or phone number without that user realizing. The verified signature prevents against this by requiring a private key to make edits. This key is also integral to the company's method for securing contacts in general. Every email account has a unique private and public key pair for contacts. That private key comes from a form of each user's password, which the company doesn't know. Then, the encrypted contact fields are encrypted with each user's public key, meaning it can only be decrypted with the corresponding private key. The two keys work in tandem.
The verification looks like this:
This contact storing strategy differs from Apple and Google, which can access contacts stored in the cloud. ProtonMail says it designed the feature for journalists who want to protect their sources.


About 50 years ago, the sugar industry stopped funding research that began to show something they wanted to hide: that eating lots of sugar is linked to heart disease. A new study exposes the sugar industry’s decades-old effort to stifle that critical research.
Researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, recently analyzed historical documents regarding a rat study called Project 259 that was launched in 1968. The study was funded by a sugar industry trade group called the International Sugar Research Foundation, or ISRF, and conducted by W. F. R. Pover at the University of Birmingham. When the preliminary findings from that study began to show that eating lots of sugar might be associated with heart disease, and even bladder cancer, the ISRF pulled the plug on the research. Without additional funding, the study was terminated and the results were never published, according to a study published today in PLOS Biology.
Last year, based on a review of internal industry documents, the same group of UCSF researchers showed that in the 1960s, ISRF — then known as the Sugar Research Foundation — also paid Harvard scientists to obscure the relationship between sugar and heart disease, pushing them to blame saturated fats instead. Today’s study adds to the evidence that the sugar industry helped steer public discourse away from the potentially negative health effects of consuming added sugars through its research funding.
“Had [Project 259] actually been completed and published, it would have advanced the general scientific discussion about the sugar heart disease link,” says study co-author Stanton Glantz, a professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco. “And they prevented that from happening. It helped to derail this issue for quite a long time.”
Researching the health effects of certain foods is critical because it helps shape the federal government’s dietary guidelines, which recommend how Americans should eat in order to prevent disease. But nutrition science is sometimes influenced by industry groups that have a stake in the results: in 2015, The New York Times reported that Coca-Cola had paid scientists to distract the public from the connection between sugary drinks and obesity. Last year, The Associated Press showed that candy makers also fund bogus research: one study showed that kids who eat candy weigh less than those who don’t.
Industry-funded research often shows results that are in line with the sponsors’ interests, says Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition, food studies, and public health at New York University, who’s writing a book on the issue. That’s also true for pharmaceutical companies, she says, which are known for suppressing research that shows unfavorable results.
The study in question investigated the relationship between sugars and certain blood fats called triglycerides, which increase the risk of heart disease. The preliminary results from the research, called Project 259, suggested that rats on a high-sugar diet, instead of a starch diet, had higher levels of triglycerides. The rats that ate lots of sugar also had higher levels of an enzyme called beta-glucuronidase in their urine, which at the time was thought to be potentially linked to bladder cancer, says study co-author Cristin Kearns, an assistant professor at the UCSF School of Dentistry.
The findings were described as “one of the first demonstrations of a biological difference between sucrose and starch fed rats,” according to the internal documents reviewed by the UCSF researchers. But after funding the research for 27 months, the International Sugar Research Foundation discontinued their support. So the study was never completed and the results were never published, according to the UCSF researchers. “Why would they want to fund research that would be against their interests? There’s no reason why they’d want to do that,” Nestle tells The Verge.
In a statement to The Verge, the Sugar Association — as the ISRF is known today — criticized the PLOS Biology paper, calling it not a study but a “perspective.” Project 259 was ended because it was “significantly delayed” and it was “consequently over budget,” the statement says. It adds: “Throughout its history, the Sugar Association has embraced scientific research and innovation in an attempt to learn as much as possible about sugar, diet, and health.”
It’s impossible to say whether Project 259’s early findings would have been confirmed. Today, we know that eating lots of added sugars — in sodas, sweets, and cereal for instance — increases your risk of dying of heart disease. However, there is “still no good evidence that sugar is a cause of bladder or other cancer in humans,” says Walter Willett, a professor of epidemiology and nutrition at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, who did not take part in the research, in an email to The Verge. “This rodent research is very indirectly related to human cancer, and it would not have appreciably influenced conclusions then or now.”
Still, at the time, the preliminary results were interesting enough to warrant more research. But the sugar industry pulled the plug on the study because it didn’t like where the results were going, the UCSF researchers claim.
Nestle agrees: “This wasn't about science. This was about marketing,” she says. “If it were about science, they would have pursued it.”
Update November 22nd, 2017 09:18AM ET: The story has been updated to include a statement from the Sugar Association.



Colorado has ordered Uber to pay a fine of $8.9 million for allowing individuals with disqualifying criminal or motor vehicle offenses, or without valid licenses, to drive for the company, Reuters reports. The company blamed an “error” in its background check process for the bad drivers.
The Colorado Public Utilities Commission (PUC) said its probe found violations that included 12 drivers with felony convictions, 17 drivers with major moving-vehicle violations, and three drivers with a type of driver’s license required only after recent drunk-driving convictions. The commission said that Uber’s background checks also failed to identify a number of aliases used by their drivers, including one driver who was “a convicted felon, habitual offender, and at one point in his past had escaped from the Colorado Department of Corrections.” Nevertheless, after he was released from prison, he became a driver for Uber. The company was cited $2,500 a day for each day a disqualified driver was found to have worked.
“We have determined that Uber had background check information that should have disqualified these drivers under the law, but they were allowed to drive anyway,” Doug Dean, the commission’s director, said in a statement. “PUC staff was able to find felony convictions that the company’s background checks failed to find, demonstrating that the company’s background checks are inadequate. In other cases, we could not confirm criminal background checks were even conducted by Uber.”
In a statement, Uber says it recently discovered a “process error that was inconsistent with Colorado’s ride-sharing regulations and proactively notified the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC). This error affected a small number of drivers and we immediately took corrective action. Per Uber safety policies and Colorado state regulations, drivers with access to the Uber app must undergo a nationally accredited third-party background screening. We will continue to work closely with the CPUC to enable access to safe, reliable transportation options for all Coloradans.” Asked if the company planned on paying the fine, a spokesperson said they were “evaluating our options.”
This isn’t the first time Uber has been reprimanded for its security policies. In 2014, the cities of Los Angeles and San Francisco sued the ride-hailing company for claiming its background checks were the most thorough in the industry, despite the fact that Uber does not take drivers' fingerprints like many taxi companies do. Uber paid $10 million to settle the suit. A new lawsuit seeking class action status was filed recently by two anonymous women who claim to have been raped or assaulted by Uber drivers. Their lawsuit is seeking to force Uber to implement stricter background check policies.
Fingerprinting drivers is a common point of contention between Uber and local governments. The company left out of Austin, Texas, after city officials there passed a law requiring finger printing for drivers. (Uber has since returned after a state law was passed voiding the requirement.)
In response to the Colorado decision, Uber notes that the state’s laws governing app-based ride-hailing services are uniquely strict. According to current Colorado law, a driver convicted of a felony for nonviolent crimes, such as trespassing or forgery, in their lifetime would not be eligible to drive for Uber in Colorado.


Using DJI’s Osmo stabilizer with Moment’s modular system to attach better lenses to your smartphone seems like it would be a match made in heaven — except for one small problem. The weight of the Moment lenses combined with Apple’s larger phones, like the 6 Plus and 7 Plus are too heavy for the Osmo to work properly. And even with smaller models, like the iPhone 7 or iPhone X, the Osmo’s motors have to work harder to keep things leveled out, which in turn drains the battery faster.
Fortunately, Moment has a solution in the form of some official counterweights that are made out of stainless steel and designed to perfectly counterbalance the extra weight of Moment’s lenses on the Osmo. Moment is making two sizes for the counterweight: a 50g option for smaller phones like the iPhone 6, 7, 8, X, the Google Pixel, and Galaxy S8, and a heavier 100g size for bigger devices like the iPhone 7 Plus and 8 Plus, Pixel 2 XL, and Galaxy S8 Plus.
It’s not Moment’s first crack at fixing this issue. Earlier this year, the company posted a DIY solution to the problem, showing users how to manually stick 45 to 55 grams of metal to one side of the the Osmo to balance out the extra weight from the combined Plus-size iPhones and the Moment lenses. Obviously, sticking a chunk of metal to the side of your Osmo with double-sided tape isn’t really a great long-term solution, so it’s nice to see Moment stepping up to the plate with a more polished fix.
The counterweights aren’t cheap, however: Moment is charging $39.99 for each, which is definitely more expensive than taping a stack of quarters to your Osmo. But if you’re looking for a simple, long-term fix, it might be worth it. The official Moment counterweights are available for preorder now at a discounted price of $31.99, and are expected to ship around December 11th.


YouTube has returned to the Amazon Echo Show nearly two months after a Google and Amazon dispute saw the internet search giant pull support for its popular video service from Amazon’s hardware, according to a report from VoiceBot.ai.
Along with the return of YouTube, Amazon is also expanding video services on the Echo Show as well, with the company launching support forVimeo and Dailymotion. In a statement to The Verge, an Amazon spokesperson commented that “We’re excited to offer customers the capability to watch even more video content from sources such as Vimeo, YouTube, and Dailymotion on Echo Show. More video sources will be added over time.”
According to Google, Amazon’s original implementation of YouTube on the Echo Show “violates our terms of service, creating a broken user experience.” It seems that Amazon and Google have been able to reconcile that problem, with a new version of YouTube that has a dramatically changed interface that much more closely resembles the desktop version of the site than Amazon’s own Echo-style integration. VoiceBot.ai has posted a video of the updated UI, which is embedded below, but if you’ve ever used YouTube on a computer or tablet, you’ve more or less already know what it’s like.
That updated version of YouTube on the Echo Show also means that features like subscriptions, next video recommendations, and autoplay — which my colleague Dieter Bohn pointed out as missing features in Amazon’s original app that Google might view as important for future growth — are now back in play on the Echo Show. But they come at the cost of the far more user-friendly and voice control-optimized software that Amazon had originally designed.
Based on a tweet from The Verge editor Dan Seifert, it seems that the new YouTube integration only halfheartedly supports voice controls at all, with the device loading the new interface slowly, and even then only loading a windowed version of the video. The Echo Show still does support full-screen YouTube video, but users will need to use a separate “Alexa, zoom in” command to display videos like that.
THIS IS INSANITY pic.twitter.com/dYbi5w7pdD
Update November 21st, 4:25pm: Added updated information about how voice controls appear to work on the new update, and clarified language with how the app works now in regard to full screen video.


Microsoft’s 15-inch Surface Book 2 laptop suffers from battery drain during heavy gaming or GPU usage, a problem The Verge first identified during our review of the device last week. While plugged into the supplied charger, the battery on the base of the device will drain during certain games if the power settings are set to max performance to fully utilize the power of the hardware.
“Surface Book 2 was designed to deliver unmatched power and performance for anyone who needs a powerful machine to work and create, making it a great option for STEM professionals (designers, developers, engineers),” explains a Microsoft spokesperson in a statement to The Verge. “The Surface Book 2 Power Mode Slider is provided as a means to give the user control over the range of performance and battery life. In some intense, prolonged gaming scenarios with Power Mode Slider set to ‘best performance’ the battery may discharge while connected to the power supply provided in-box with Surface Book 2. However, through power management design, the battery will never drain entirely, ensuring that users are able to keep working, creating or gaming.”
The amount of drain varies between games, screen resolution, and maximum load on the GPU. We’re still carrying out additional tests on a new Surface Book 2 unit after a defective power supply caused additional issues on our review unit. The max performance setting is required to play games, as during my tests I’ve found that performance rapidly drops during the other battery-efficient settings.
It appears that the Surface Book 2 has been designed to supply 95 watts of power from the charger to the device, which isn’t enough to run the processor, graphics card, and all other hardware components at max. The processor alone draws 25 watts in high-power mode, and will even burst to 35 watts. Microsoft’s Nvidia GTX 1060 variant draws between 70 and 80 watts, bringing the total to 105 watts at peak. Microsoft works around this by aggressively throttling the Nvidia chip during games at “better performance” and “best battery” settings.
I’ve found the throttling makes the device unusable for gaming after less than 10 minutes in those battery efficient modes, dropping the experience from 60fps to 30fps in some titles. Other games will run fine in these modes, but Destiny 2 is particularly grueling. The max performance setting will drain power even when plugged into the wall, and I’ve found it’s at least 10 percent an hour or more depending on the game and load.
We’re still carrying out additional tests to update our Surface Book 2 review, but it’s clear that the device is not designed to be a gaming laptop. Microsoft has made some trade-offs in its design to avoid a heavy power brick and reaching the maximum 120 watts that the Surface Connector currently supports. Those trade-offs mean you’re not going to be able to play games at high resolution with high settings without some form of battery drain or throttling of the graphics card performance even when you’re plugged into the wall.


Android phones gather your location data and send it to Google, even if you’ve turned off location services and don’t have a SIM card, Quartz reported today.
The term “location services” oftentimes refers to exact GPS data for app usage, such as Google Maps finding your best commute route, or Uber figuring out exactly where you’re standing to let drivers know your pickup point. Quartz’s report details a practice in which Google was able to track user locations by triangulating which cell towers were currently servicing a specific device.
Since January, all kinds of Android phones and tablets have been collecting the addresses of nearby cellular towers and sending the encrypted data to Google’s push notifications and messaging management system when connected to the internet. It’s a practice that customers can’t opt out of — even if their phones are factory reset.
A Google spokesperson said in a statement to The Verge that all modern Android phones use a network sync system that requires mobile country codes and mobile network codes, so tower info called “Cell ID” codes were considered an “additional signal to further improve the speed and performance of message delivery.” Google ultimately discarded the cell tower data and didn’t go through with the original plan.
A source familiar with the matter stated that Google added the cell tower data-collecting feature to improve its Firebase Cloud Messaging, where devices have to ping the server at regular intervals in order to receive messages promptly.
The findings are surprising, given that cell tower data is usually held by carrier networks and only shared with outside companies under extreme circumstances. Through Google’s practices this year, an individual’s particular location within a quarter-mile radius or less could be determined with the addresses of multiple cell towers. This has particular security implications for individuals who wish to not be tracked, meaning that the safest way to avoid being tracked at all is probably to stick to burner phones. It could also create a bigger target for hackers looking to obtain personal information.
An update that removes this cell tower data-collecting feature will roll out by the end of this month, according to Google. Google’s terms of service, at the time of publish, still vaguely state, “When you use Google services, we may collect and process information about your actual location” using “various technologies... including IP address, GPS, and other sensors that may, for example, provide Google with information on nearby devices, Wi-Fi access points and cell tower.” Google does offer details on how to control Google’s location access points. But as shown by its ToS, the company could admittedly do a better job of making this clearer and simpler for its general consumers.


The Federal Communications Commission will vote to put an end to its net neutrality rules next month, commission chairman Ajit Pai said today. The proposal will reverse the Title II classification of internet providers, which allows the agency to put strict limits on their behavior, and replace it with the old “information service” classification, which a federal court has ruled is less comprehensive, weakening any protections that might replace those currently in force.
That is, if the agency even wanted to replace them: it sounds like this proposal will leave the internet without any sort of net neutrality protections. The full text of the order — a final revision of the the proposal that received 22 million comments over the summer — will be released tomorrow. For now, we only have a summary from Pai.
“Under my proposal, the federal government will stop micromanaging the internet,” Pai said in a statement emailed to reporters. “Instead, the FCC would simply require internet service providers to be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them and entrepreneurs and other small businesses can have the technical information they need to innovate.”
The FCC’s goal is to set up the Federal Trade Commission to handle all anti-competitive disputes, and the idea is that if ISPs violate their stated policies, the FTC will be able to take action.
This is a puzzling plan and one that the FCC has to be well aware will not offer any legitimate consumer protections. Companies’ terms of service and related policies aren’t meant to protect consumers, they’re meant to protect companies — and they can change at a moment’s notice. While it’s entirely possible that a company could violate its own policies and get in trouble with the FTC, a company could also just promise open internet protections until it doesn’t feel like following them any more, rewrite its policies, and then implement new and potentially discriminatory practices.
And while this all might work out if American consumers had several internet providers to choose from at home, so that they could switch away from a bad provider and over to one that values an open internet, that’s far from the case. Less than a quarter of the country has two or more home internet providers that offer basic broadband speeds — so if you don’t like what your provider is doing, you’re stuck.
Republicans have argued that the FTC is the expert agency on anti-competitive practices and ought to be in charge here, but that obfuscates what’s really happening. The FTC is a single agency tasked with protecting consumers across a wide range of industries — it simply doesn’t have the focus of the FCC to narrow in on just internet providers. Nor does the FTC have the ability to proactively set tough rules. The FTC can only establish guidelines, which gives internet providers a lot more leeway to experiment with practices that work to their own advantage.
In reality, the FCC is trying and will likely succeed in giving internet providers the leeway to try whatever policies they want over their own networks. Pai’s argument has been that by giving internet providers this flexibility, they’ll be able to make money in new ways, which they could then pour back into building out their network. The theory is that they could then bring service to areas that wouldn’t be profitable enough to reach today. Since the agency wants to get more and more Americans connected, that could be considered a win — though the service may look different than what we receive today in some very important ways.
Net neutrality supporters are already fearing the worst based on what Pai has announced. Democratic FCC commissioner Mignon Clyburn said the rules (or lack thereof) “would dismantle net neutrality as we know it by giving the green light to our nation’s largest broadband providers to engage in anti-consumer practices, including blocking, slowing down traffic, and paid prioritization of online applications and services.” And fellow Democratic commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel described the same fears, saying this proposal “hands broadband providers the power to decide what voices to amplify, which sites we can visit, what connections we can make, and what communities we create. It throttles access, stalls opportunity, and censors content.”
The Internet Association, a trade group that represents web 40-some web companies including Google and Facebook, pointed to lack of ISP options as a critical flaw in the plan. “Consumers have little choice in their ISP,” the organization said, “and service providers should not be allowed to use this gatekeeper position at the point of connection to discriminate against websites and apps.” And ACLU policy analyst Jay Stanley issued a similar warning, saying, “Gutting net neutrality will have a devastating effect on free speech online. Without it, gateway corporations like Comcast, Verizon, and AT&T will have too much power to mess with the free flow of information.”
The rules go up for a vote next month, on December 14th, when they’re almost certain to pass. The FCC is majority Republican right now, and Republicans have been calling for the end of net neutrality ever since the policy was first put in place. There’s also no reason for Pai to put the measure up for a vote unless he knows it’s going to pass.
After the vote, it’ll take a month or so before the new policies appear in the Federal Register and go into place, overwriting the only net neutrality rules. That doesn’t mean everything will be all over, though: there’s certain to be a court battle — or two, or three — to follow. Net neutrality advocates will take the commission to court, likely claiming that it failed to find enough evidence to warrant overturning a decision made just two years earlier. Advocates may also say the commission ignored process, having made up its mind from the start and ignoring millions of comments from the American public in support of net neutrality.
Supporters of net neutrality have long argued that the rules are necessary to protect consumers’ from price gouging and protect small companies from anti-competitive behavior. Paid fast lanes could allow wealthy companies to pay for better service, giving them an edge over upstarts (say, YouTube vs. a brand new streaming service). A lack of discrimination rules could let internet providers like Comcast and AT&T advantage their own content — like NBC and HBO — over others’, by making it stream faster or not count toward data caps. And an absence of no blocking rules means that internet providers could stop apps that compete with their own from reaching consumers.


A new company named Buoy Labs is trying to make it easy for homeowners to monitor and cut down on their water usage. The company is releasing its debut product today, a big buoy-shaped device named Buoy, that attaches to a home’s water line and measures how much water is going through it. Using that data, Buoy can tell homeowners how much water they’re using for showers, doing dishes, cleaning laundry, and flushing toilets. It can also tell if there’s a leak.
Keri Waters, Buoy’s co-founder and CEO, lives in Santa Cruz, California, and became interested in finding ways to reduce water usage a little over two years ago, while her city and state were requiring homeowners to lessen their usage amid an ongoing drought. The drought in California, Waters says, “is a canary in the coal mine of what's coming for the whole country.”
So Waters and what’s become a team of 17 people came together to build Buoy, a device that’s meant to make cutting down your water usage a bit easier. Waters says that most people assume cutting down on water usage means taking shorter showers, but homeowners can also cut down by fixing invisible leaks or using efficient appliances, like a dishwasher, instead of doing dishes by hand with a running faucet. The EPA, Waters points out, also says that 10 percent of homes have wasteful leaks and that correcting them could cut down their water usage by 10 percent. For homes that can identify and fix a leak, it could be a big gain toward mandatory water reductions targeted at 20 percent or more.
To do all this, Buoy watches the rate at which water flows through your home’s pipes, then using a Wi-Fi connection, uploads it to the company’s servers, which use machine learning to categorize water usage. Based on flow rate, it’s supposed to be able to automatically pick apart showers, running faucets, flushed toilets, and so on. It’s even supposed to be able to tell when multiple things are being use simultaneously — say, when one person is showering and another person flushes a toilet, because it’ll identify the spike in water usage and separate it out.
In a companion app, Buoy will then be able to show a home’s water usage throughout the day and overall water usage by category. It’ll also be able to tell if there’s a leak and in certain cases even identify what the problem is. Beyond that, it’ll still be up to homeowners to figure out exactly how they want to cut down on their water usage, but getting a clear picture of what they’re currently using might make it easier to figure out the best course forward.
Buoy also offers a handful of other smart features. It can send notifications about water usage and, more importantly, about leaks. And it’ll also allow homeowners to shut off their water line in the event that it detects a leak. That could make the device useful not just for homeowners trying to reduce their daily usage, but also for people who own properties they don’t live in year round, as it could potentially stop leaks from leading to water damage.
Waters’ company isn’t the first to come up with a device like this. Over the past few years, several other companies have put out (or tried to put out) smart water monitors that connect to apps, to help people get a sense of their water usage. But those haven’t automatically characterized water usage the way that Buoy does (or they never managed to ship).
Buoy Labs, on the other hand, begins shipping its debut product today. The Buoy sells for $799 — much more expensive than other water monitors — and includes installation by a plumber. That price includes lifetime usage of Buoy’s current app features, meaning you won’t need to pay for an additional subscription. Waters says the device should be compatible with any single-family home and newer multi-family buildings — anywhere the water line is divided up per residential unit.


The Justice Department announced today that it has charged an Iranian man with this year’s hack of HBO, a high-profile security breach that led to the early release of TV episodes and scripts.
In an indictment, prosecutors allege that Behzad Mesri gained server access to HBO by hijacking employees’ accounts. With that access, according to the indictment, Mesri stole unaired episodes of shows like Ballers and Curb Your Enthusiasm, as well as scripts for other shows, including Game of Thrones. Financial documents and logins for social media accounts were also taken.
When he had the data, prosecutors allege, Mesri reached out to HBO and demanded about $5.5 million — and later $6 million — in bitcoin as a ransom for the stolen data. Mesri, who prosecutors claim has worked as a hacker for the Iranian military, faces charges of computer fraud, wire fraud, identity theft, and extortion.
The charges are the latest chapter in an embarrassing story for HBO. In August, as the hack was unfolding, the company reportedly offered a $250,000 “bug bounty” payment to the hacker, although it’s unclear whether it actually intended to pay the ransom.
“Because Mesri is in Iran, we are unfortunately unable to arrest him today,” acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York Joon Kim said during a press conference livestream today.
“While Mesri remains at large, there will be some real consequences for him,” Kim continued. “For the rest of his life, and he’s a relatively young man, he will never be able to travel outside of Iran without fear of being arrested and brought here to face these charges.”
Update November 21st, 1:00 PM ET: This article has been updated with details from the official press conference.



One of the bigger additions in Android Oreo was picture-in-picture support, but a new software feature is only as good as the applications that support it. And now, with the release of YouTube TV 1.11 on Android, you’ll be able to use Oreo’s picture-in-picture feature to keep watching shows — even while you’re doing other things that aren’t watching shows, via 9to5Google.
YouTube TV joins the fairly small pantheon of apps that support the feature, which includes the regular YouTube app, Netflix, Chrome, VLC, and Facebook. As a reminder: YouTube TV costs $35 per month, but if picture-in-picture support is a crucial feature for you, it’s so far the only game in town. Rival TV services like Hulu and Sling TV don’t support the feature on Oreo yet.
YouTube TV 1.11 is available now on the Play Store.


It’s 10AM on a dreary Saturday in a convention center so far on the west side of Manhattan it’s practically in the Hudson River. Twister, a dachshund, and Bender, a small white mutt, have already gotten into it. Bender is running around like someone’s paying him to live up to his name, tripping people with his leash, and knocking over promotional banners for a dog anxiety jacket called Calmz. Twister’s ego is bigger than his body, which means he’s hiding behind his owner’s legs and barking as hard as his chicken-wing-sized lungs will let him.
This is the first PetCon, a celebration of the dogs (and cats and pigs) who have found fame online. It’s a weekend of panels, meet-and-greets, and free Swiffer dusters, organized by The Dog Agency, a marketing and talent agency that only represents pets. The main convention hall is a big empty space with a dog run in the middle of the room, and a doggie red carpet off to the side. There are shih tzus in baby carriages, dachshunds wearing bedazzled sweaters, golden retrievers trying to maintain their composure, and pitbulls trying to get some alone time. There is a cat wearing bespoke sequined sunglasses (@sunglasscat), who flew in from LA this morning, and a two-month-old pig named Hamlet (@hamlet_the_piggy), whose owner recently quit her full-time job to focus on her pet’s career.
Ticket prices for PetCon ranged from $75 for a single-day general admission pass to $300 for a weekend VIP pass. VIP-ers got a separate entrance with early admission, a welcome breakfast, a gift bag, and a designated lounge area. Each day featured four panel discussions with several hours blocked off for “can’t-miss meet-and-greets with your favorite celebrity pets.” The panels landed in two camps: social media hacks (“Building an Instagram Community”), or PSAs about pet ownership (“Special Needs Pets” and “Why Rescue Matters”). Generally, the theme is, you have to know how to love your pets before you can monetize them.
Everyone I meet at PetCon is what you, an amateur, might call a “pet person.” To the attendees, the convention is more like a group of reunited friends, or strangers who will become friends. They’ve traveled here, dogs in tow, from upstate New York, Rhode Island, Georgia, California, and Canada, to improve their own pets’ Instagram game, to pet celeb dogs in the flesh (or fur), and to meet other people like them — people who also saw the PetCon Eventbrite page and immediately bought tickets.
Rochelle Baross, a blogger who runs the financial website The Broke Dog, wasn’t able to bring her terrier mix Henry to PetCon, so she’s carrying around a stuffed version of him in a tote bag. When I ask if she’s here to meet the celebrity dogs, she tells me, “I’m more here to meet dog people.” She isn’t alone: I watch one woman march around the room with photos of her dachshund displayed on her iPhone, ready to show them to anyone who will pay attention. Most people will. She stops to coo over another dachshund in the room (there are about 67 dachshunds here), and then tells his owner she thinks his dog could stand to lose some weight.
The first panel of the event is called “How to Create Content Like the Experts,” featuring Brittni Vega, the human force behind the very popular Harlow and Sage Instagram account (1.2 million followers); Ryan Beauchesne, who runs Crusoe the Celebrity Dachshund’s Instagram (494,000 followers); Elias Weiss Friedman, aka the dog photographer The Dogist (2.8 million followers); and Loni Edwards, founder of The Dog Agency. As a few hundred people and their dogs shuffle into the room, it feels like we’re about to meet the world’s most popular boy band.
“We love you, Loni!” someone yells as the panelists file onstage. The air is electric.
I find a seat, and a Yorkie sitting on the lap of the woman in front of me pops up over her shoulder. “He’s very excited, he wants to meet you,” she says, shoving him into my hands. The dog settles in, content to be anywhere, as long as it’s on a lap. The woman pulls a sticker out of her jacket pocket with her dog’s face on it, and a handle: @yorkieinnewyorkie. “Because he’s a Yorkie and he lives in New York,” she says.
This is the kind of event where you can put your dog in a stranger’s lap and let your attention wander. It’s assumed that if you’re at PetCon, you love animals — they’re the main attraction. So when a few rowdy dogs in the back of the room bark throughout the panel, no one expresses any annoyance. They laugh, and shake their heads: that is so like dogs.
Onstage, Vega, Beauchesene, and Friedman talk about how lucky they are to spend time with dogs that can make more money than a lot of humans (“super lucky”), and give the audience some tips on becoming Instagram-famous. (Beauchesene: “For us, it was trying to translate Crusoe’s actual personality to online.”) Then they move on to the dreaded Instagram algorithm, the first mention of which prompts a wave of nods and grim murmurs. Now that the platform’s feed is no longer chronological, and the algorithm is instead based on some secret sauce of speed and volume of engagement, getting that vaunted “organic reach” is harder than ever. Instagram engagement is a dog-eat-dog world, even if no one at PetCon would ever dare use that phrase.
“Our videos don’t hit the numbers that they used to as quickly as they used to,” Beauchesene admits. To combat the problem, he recently started a Facebook group just for Crusoe superfans. The 2,000 members act like a volunteer army, dutifully sharing whatever Crusoe shares, which helps boost engagement quickly.
Friedman is optimistic, because “dogs are very emotional for people,” and he doesn’t think that feeling is going away anytime soon. “When you photograph animals or dogs, they don’t say, ‘Oh, my nose looks big,’ or ‘Can I see the picture?’” he says. The implication, repeated several times over the course of this day, is that dogs are better than us — both at social media, and in general.
When the panel ends, the line to meet Harlow’s dachshund brother Reese (Sage actually died four years ago, but his name is a non-negotiable part of the brand) is already snaking around the main convention hall. Dana Schweer, the woman standing at the front of the line, has been there for around an hour and a half. She’s confident the wait will be worth it.
PetCon isn’t just about meeting and greeting your heroes. Some people are here to network. Julie Vastola, whose teacup pomeranian Penny (@pompenny) has about 20,000 Instagram followers, is here in search of insider tips on how to increase that number.
“I was pushing Penny way too much on my own Instagram,” Vastola says. “So we started one for her, and she got all these followers. And then there was one day where someone came up to her on the street and said, ‘Is that Pompenny?’ and we were like, ‘Oh my God, we can do this for real.’” Vastola, who works in digital marketing at a record label, says Penny has gotten a few brand deals since then, but it’s nothing compared to what the big stars are making.
Arturo Rosales hands me a business card for his hairless Xoloitzcuintli, whose name is Xolo. (Which is like naming your pet pug Pug.) On the card, Rosales describes himself as Xolo’s “representative.” Xolo’s Instagram account only had 226 followers as of the convention, but Rosales is here to spread the word; he posted photos of Xolo at PetCon 15 times throughout the day.
All day, there are celebrity dogs barking and running around and tripping me, and I keep failing to show the appropriate amount of awe when I meet them. I run into Sparkles the Shih Tzu (@sparklesthediva), who I learn has more than 50,000 Instagram followers. (Her owner tells me she’s “kinda famous.”) Sparkles is sitting on a silk cushion inside a stroller, wearing a ballerina bun that appears to be made of fake hair. I also meet Englebert (@wolfgang2242), an extremely old and rickety-looking chihuahua with 719,000 Instagram followers on an account he shares with other “senior” dogs. Englebert keeps falling asleep while adoring fans are petting him, prompting his owner to repeat a kind of mantra: “Wake up, Englebert! Wake up, Englebert!” I meet Chase the pitbull, who has an alter-ego named Carl (@sometimesCarl), and King Bentley (@kingbentleythebulldog) who doesn’t seem to care at all that his meet-and-greet line is the shortest in the room.
When the day is over, I head outside into the rain, exhausted and covered in dog hair. PetCon is one of the most persistently joyful events I’ve ever been to, and that tone is reflected in these dogs’ well-curated internet personas. Online, millions of people know the smallest details about how these pets live, or think they do. And because pets don’t have political opinions, socially conditioned bad habits, or petty streaks, they’ll never disappoint their fans.
But the darker side of this fandom is that now, even other people’s pets can breed a low-simmering jealousy: their lives are smoother, silkier, and more comforting than our own. They’re cuter than us, too, and their cuteness can translate directly into hefty salaries, if leveraged correctly. And there’s another implication here: owners who fail to leverage their pets’ cuteness to a respectable follower count, or who don’t even attempt to leverage it at all, might be seen as lacking entrepreneurial spirit, or even sufficient adoration for their pets.
And parenting a celebrity pet comes with its own set of difficulties. At one panel, Ella Bean the Dog’s owner, Hilary Sloan, reminds the audience that “Ella’s jetset lifestyle,” in which she takes luxurious bubble baths and sips hot cocoa in bed, isn’t exactly what it seems like. “I make it appear like that’s what she’s doing on Instagram, but really, I’m in meetings all day,” she says. A famous pet gives fans an escape from the grind, but that escape might not always extend to their owners.
On the sidewalk outside the convention center, I take a deep breath of industrial 11th Avenue air and sidestep three adorable French bulldogs, genetically engineered for cuteness, taking a well-deserved pee break. It’s not a very Instagram-worthy moment. But at least here, just outside of PetCon, there’s proof that even the biggest animal influencers still get to live their normal lives behind the scenes.


We've fantasized about holograms for decades only to watch the big tech companies bet mostly on VR or AR. Today, however, a startup called Looking Glass is officially unveiling its idea for a hologram viewing device: the HoloPlayer One. Looking Glass previously announced a different volumetric display, called Volume, but pivoted its efforts to HoloPlayer One when Volume didn't take off like the company hoped it would.
This new development kit and its SDK allow users to display and interact with 3D creations. The company built two versions — one that requires an HDMI hookup to a computer and another with an Intel Core i7 processor inside that works independently from a PC. The HDMI-reliant version costs $750 while the premium computer version costs $3,000.
Both models rely on the same hardware to produce the holograms. They reflect the content from a 2560 x 1600 LCD display. A depth-sensing camera, like the one used in a Microsoft Kinect or iPhone X, is mounted on top to assist with interaction. Strangely, the cheaper device is powered over USB-C while the more premium version relies on MicroUSB. People can view content so long as they're within a range of 50 degrees from the device.
Although the HoloPlayer One's screen has an acceptable resolution, users won't see a crisp, bright image on the device. Instead it's blurred and dim.
This happens because the HoloPlayer’s screen is reflected into 32 different depth planes, which gives you an effective 267 x 480 resolution for the resulting 3D image. Looking Glass created a GIF of this to give you a better idea of how the device works:
All of this is to say you might not be impressed with the actual holograms. If you're expecting a vibrant, lifelike hologram, you won't get that.
The development kit also isn't a fully formed idea in the sense that it gives developers a thing to play with and leaves it to them to find the best use case.
Looking Glass has some ideas, though. When I checked the device out a couple weeks ago, I interacted with animations, used my finger to mold a 3D sculpture, and explored a 3D CAT scan of a heart. You can see more examples of Looking Glass' work on its website. All the demos used my finger as the primary controller, although a drawing application took advantage of four built-in buttons to control when paint was released. The company has also experimented with custom remotes, like hacking a Nintendo Switch controller to use as a wand in games. I didn't find the device to be super intuitive, but maybe it would come with more practice.
All the company's applications hint at its big idea of digital images rendered without the use of smart glasses or a headset, yet none of them felt like they worked as a concept that could make the device mainstream. Maybe marketing it as a hologram memory display would do the trick. Still, I'm hoping someone stumbles upon application gold because I like the idea of 3D content everyone can witness without a headset strapped to their faces.


Foxconn has been employing students illegally to work overtime at its factories to assemble the iPhone X, reports the Financial Times. Six high school students told the publication they regularly work 11-hour days assembling the device, which is illegal for student interns under China’s laws. The students were between 17 to 19 years old, and said they were told they had to work at the factory for three months as a requirement to graduate. One student told the FT they were being forced to work there, and that the work had nothing to do with their studies. The student also claimed to have assembled up to 1,200 iPhone X cameras a day.
According to the FT, Apple and Foxconn said they had discovered cases of student interns working overtime, and they were taking remedial action. However, both companies also claimed that the students were not “forced” to work beyond the legal hourly limits. “We’ve confirmed the students worked voluntarily, were compensated and provided benefits,” Apple said. “But they should not have been allowed to work overtime.”
Similarly, Foxconn said it worked with local governments and vocational schools in organizing the internship program, but acknowledged the overtime work violated its policy that prohibits students from working more than 40 hours a week. Today’s news comes after reports of high iPhone X demand ahead of the device’s intended ship date, which were compounded with rumors of production delays due to supply problems.
At least 300,000 people assemble iPhones at Foxconn, with 3,000 students from Zhengzhou Urban Rail Transit School sent to help with the iPhone X. The six students the FT spoke to volunteered to work overtime and were paid illegally for it. Though it still doesn’t look good for Apple or Foxconn, given this context, the situation pales in comparison to the extreme conditions previously reported at Foxconn.


Since the colorful multiplayer shooter Splatoon 2 launched on the Nintendo Switch back in July, the game has maintained a fairly steady player base, according to producer Hisashi Nogami. There was some inevitable decline once the hype of the launch wore off, but since then he says that the community has remained consistent, due in large part to a steady stream of weekly updates that have added new modes, maps, weapons, and gameplay tweaks. Over the past five months, there’s only really been one point where there was a large decline in players. “It is true that when Super Mario Odyssey launched, we saw fewer than normal users logging on to play the game,” says Nogami with a laugh.
Now Nogami and his team are hoping to reignite the game once again with Splatoon 2’s biggest update so far. This week will see the addition of new maps, an increased level cap, more hairstyles and music tracks, and a whopping 140 pieces of gear, followed by a new competitive mode in December. It’s substantially larger than any previous update, and Nogami says that this deluge of content is designed in part to make Splatoon 2 more enticing ahead of the busy holiday shopping season. “We’re hoping that we’ll be able to invite in a group of new players who get the game,” he says, “or who are maybe picking up a Switch at the end of the year.”
The first part of the update will start rolling out on November 23rd, and will include the majority of the new content. The fresh gear will include some fan-favorite clothing options from the original Splatoon, as well as a wealth of cold weather-themed items like ski masks, warm jackets, and thick, cozy sweaters. “We had something in mind like offering a fall collection, or a winter collection, similar to what you see in the fashion industry in the real world,” art director Seita Inoue says of the additions.
There will also be four more hairstyle options to choose from, and a pair of new tracks to listen to during battles. The update also introduces some quality-of-life tweaks for veteran players: the level cap has been raised from 50 to 99, and you’ll now finally be able to switch up your gear without having to leave the multiplayer lobby.
Then on the 24th, Nintendo will start rolling out four new maps for the game. The first, called “MakoMart,” takes place in a giant big-box retail store, which Nogami says the team specifically made sure to get ready for Black Friday in the US. Over the following weeks, three more maps will debut, set in a museum, shopping mall, and warehouse, respectively. Nintendo will then follow that up in mid-December with the release of Splatoon 2’s fourth ranked battle mode, called “clam blitz.”
Here’s how the company describes it:
In “clam blitz,’ competing inklings are tasked with collecting clams scattered around the stage. After one is picked up, the clam follows the player. The objective is to throw the clam into the basket near the opponent’s base. The first team to score 100 points wins. But, of course, this being the fiercely competitive world of Splatoon 2, things are not as easy as they seem. The baskets are protected by a barrier, which must be destroyed first. After collecting 10 clams, the player will earn a power clam. These super-powered clams are the key to breaking the barrier, so strategy will definitely be involved in which clams are used to destroy the barrier and which are used to earn points.
Though it’s much bigger than previous updates, the new slate of content goes along with Nintendo’s goal of continually updating Splatoon 2 in order to keep players returning, a concept that dates back to the original game on the Wii U. It’s a philosophy that the company has embraced of late, with post-release updates helping extend the life of games like The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Mario Kart 8, and Arms, among others.
In the case of Splatoon 2, the team makes new content based on a variety of criteria. Sometimes it’s to respond to feedback from fans — like with the much-requested option to quickly change gear between matches — while other times the goal is to add something completely different to the experience, such as with the new mode coming next month.
“All three of the existing ranked battle modes involve teams competing for control of something, whether it’s an area or an object,” says Shintaro Sato, programming director on the game. “And we thought with “clam blitz” we would add plurality to that gameplay. So now the stage is littered with clams, and there are multiple items for players to possess and compete for. The idea being that players will gather clams as a team and need to carry them forward to push the frontlines of the battle forward.
“With the existing three modes, we drew inspiration from a variety of sources, whether that was different genres of games or from sports like rugby. This time around, rather than following that pattern, we thought ‘How could we create a new mode that would be different?’ That was the base that we started from.”
This series of updates is expected to keep things going until around February of next year, and Nintendo has said that it plans to keep supporting the game for a year after launch. Nogami notes that the updates could potentially extend further than that, saying that the team is currently in the “planning stages” for what that future support could look like. Whatever it ends up being, though, these kinds of updates aren’t just a way to keep Splatoon in the spotlight. They’re intrinsic to the game itself.
“An idea that’s sort of baked into Splatoon at the most fundamental level is that we’re not exactly releasing a game when you buy that package,” says Nogami. “But it’s more that we’re releasing an experience that evolves over time.” And at a time when that model often proves controversial, Nintendo seems to be doing it the right way with Splatoon.


Sonos today confirmed to The Verge that customers can now play music from Spotify on its speakers with Amazon's Alexa voice assistant. To enable Spotify, users must choose it as their preferred service inside the Alexa app. Once that's done, you can tell Alexa to play your full collection of Spotify playlists, artists, albums, and songs.
The addition of Spotify addresses one of my main gripes with the Sonos One, the company's first speaker with integrated mics for Alexa. At launch, the One couldn't play music from Spotify with voice; you had to start playing from the Sonos or Spotify app and then could use voice for skipping tracks or adjusting volume.
Related
Sonos was aware of the glaring omission and had promised to add full Spotify support by December 21st. Thankfully it didn’t take that long, and now users will have their Discover Weekly, Release Radar, and custom-made playlists just a quick "Alexa" request away. Black Friday buyers of the Sonos One won’t have to deal with the same frustration as early owners. Older Sonos speakers don't miss out on this convenience, as they can be linked with and controlled by Amazon Echo devices.
Separately, Sonos has recently been working with streaming partners to give more apps control over its hardware. Both Pandora and Tidal can now play music directly to Sonos speakers.


Leica is today announcing the latest camera in its portfolio, the APS-C class CL. The CL is a very similar camera to the TL2 released earlier this year, with the same image sensor and overall performance. But it has a more traditional design than the futuristic TL2 and should appeal to those wanting a classic style camera that’s smaller, lighter, and of course, significantly cheaper than Leica’s flagship M10 rangefinder.
The biggest difference between the TL2 and the CL is the CL’s integrated electronic viewfinder. It has a 2.36-megapixel display mounted on the top left side of the camera (when viewed from the rear). As far as electronic viewfinders go, this one won’t blow anyone away -- even the viewfinder on Leica’s own Q bests it — but it is much better than the detachable viewfinder that slides into the hotshoe on the TL2.
The other big difference with the CL are the control dials and small LCD display on the top plate. Like the TL2, the two control dials are customizable and can be programmed for whatever parameter you want to control. But on top of each dial is a button that toggles a secondary function, making it easy to switch between two entirely different control schemes. In addition, the black and white LCD screen between the dials displays settings, battery, and exposure indicators, so it’s easy to check things on the go. It even lights up automatically in dim lighting.
The back of the CL is a mix between the TL2 and its fully touchscreen control system and the Q’s button-based system. Basically, the CL combines the two ideas: its rear display is fully touch and gesture enabled, but it still has buttons and a four way controller.
The CL is noticeably more compact than the TL2, and Leica likens its size to the fixed-lens X2 released a few years ago. It’s roughly the same size as the Fujifilm X-E3 and only slightly larger than Sony’s extremely compact A6500.
Inside, the CL has a 24-megapixel APS-C sensor (the same one as found in the TL2) and Leica’s Maestro II image processor. It can shoot up to 33 DNG and JPEG full resolution images at 10 frames per second and shoots 4K video at 30 frames per second or 1080p video at up to 60 frames per second. Leica boasts a 14 stop dynamic range and ISO up to 50,000. The CL’s contrast based autofocus system has 49 points to work with and the camera offers both a mechanical and electronic shutter.
Interestingly, the CL doesn’t have any I/O ports to speak off — the only way to get images off the camera is to remove the SD card and put it in a computer or use Leica’s iOS or Android app to wireless transfer images to a phone or tablet.
The CL is compatible with Leica’s TL mount system, which now boasts a total of seven lenses, including a new, compact 18mm f/2.8 option. It’s also compatible with the seven lenses in the SL system, and Leica offers mount adapters to use M- and R-mount lenses on it.
For the first time, Leica will be selling the CL in bundled kits, in addition to body only options. A kit with the new 18mm lens will cost $3,795, while a kit with an 18-55 zoom lens will run $3,995. The CL body alone costs $2,795 and the 18mm lens will sell for $1,295. All options are available to order starting today.


Misfit launched a new hybrid smartwatch today called the Command. Similarly to its earlier hybrid watch, the Phase, it tracks steps and calories and can notify wearers of calls, texts, or whatever else is happening on their phone. It doesn't have an LCD display because it's hybrid, so instead, graphic icons light up to signify notifications.
The watch also includes a smart button that can be programmed to do various things, like play music or take a photo. All this functionality is similar to the Phase, except for the icons. I prefer the design of the Phase, which opted for a small window of light to convey notifications. However, both hybrid watches definitely look better than the company's first true smartwatch, the Vapor.
The Command is water resistant up to 50 meters and should last for up to a year before needing a new battery. It costs $149.99 and is available in four color variations: black steel, black copper, navy blue, and steel. It ships November 28th.


“Where is Superman?”
That question haunted Justice League’s marketing campaign, as millions of people (or possibly just me) obsessively wondered where the Man of Steel was in the film. Now that Justice League is here, we finally know the answer to that question, and it turns out that it’s simultaneously more and less interesting than we imagined.
Spoilers for Game of Thrones season 5, Man of Steel, Batman v Superman, and Justice League follow.
First off, let’s just get this out of the way: I was right. Back in March, I made this prediction:
Justice League will feature Superman as a bad guy, at least until the Justice League beats the stuffing out of him and turns him good again.
Sure enough, in Justice League, Superman comes back from the dead, and his first action is to immediately try and kill the entire Justice League. Yes, it’s more due to the fact that he’s confused after being dead than because he’s actually turned evil, but I’m still scoring this one for me.
But was this reveal worth deliberately hiding Superman’s role in the film for so long?
To answer that, let’s look at how Superman is brought back. When Ben Affleck’s Bruce Wayne suggests resurrecting him around the midpoint of the movie, it’s such an incredibly off-the-cuff, nonchalant suggestion. The movie makes a bit of a deal about how this is a bad idea: Jason Momoa’s Aquaman argues that Superman probably lost his soul when he died, and Gal Gadot’s Wonder Woman thinks Bruce will probably create a Doomsday-esque monster, like the last person who revived a dead Kryptonian on Earth did. Of course, Batman ignores them, and through the power of the Mother Box, Superman is revived.
And yes, he does take a few minutes to beat up the Justice League, including a cringe-inducing callback to Batman v Superman’s “Do you bleed?” line. But beyond that, there’s pretty much no consequence to his death. Lois Lane (Amy Adams) shows up and talks him down from his post-resurrection temper tantrum, and Clark is back to billboard-worthy smiles and defending truth, justice, and the American way before the day is out.
There are ultimately no consequences to Snyder killing off Superman in Batman v Superman, and Justice League is more focused on the ensuing brawl against the Big Bad, Steppenwolf, to even really acknowledge Superman’s return from death as a notable event relative to the rest of the plot.
But the more I think on it, the more it just plain doesn’t make sense to me. Clearly someone wanted his return to be a grand reveal. Superman doesn’t appear in any posters, trailers, or marketing materials, except that 2016 Comic-Con promo shot. But the lead-up to Justice League undermined that goal at almost every turn. Sure, Superman doesn’t appear in promotional materials, but there have been set reports about Cavill’s role for months, including the still-spectacular CGI mustache scandal. Cavill joined the rest of the cast on press tours, where his supposed non-role in the film was a running joke. The movie itself doesn’t even try to hide it: Cavill has second billing, right after Ben Affleck in the opening credits.
Compare that to Game of Thrones, which pulled a similar stunt with the death and revival of Kit Harington’s Jon Snow over the course of the fifth and sixth seasons of the series. Jon’s planned return was predicted and anticipated, but at least the show made an effort to hide it, with producers and cast members swearing to the rafters that Jon was really, truly gone. And while there’s an argument to be made that the entire idea of having a “big reveal” is outdated, especially in the age of the internet, where every possible theory can be guessed and every set picture leaked in an instant, at least the Game of Thrones showrunners tried to earn the moment by putting in the effort.
Game of Thrones also handles the resurrection better from a story perspective: Jon Snow changes as a character when he comes back, abandoning his sworn duty to the Night’s Watch and venturing south to save Winterfell and the rest of House Stark. He carries obvious physical and emotional scars from the wounds that killed him. Death affects him, and shifts his priorities in life in a way that it doesn’t with Superman in Justice League.
Given that there is no real plot reason for the big reveal, though, the best explanation I can come up with is that Justice League’s story hinges on the fact that Superman is dead. The absence of Earth’s Kryptonian savior is cited as a reason for the Mother Boxes awakening and summoning Steppenwolf. (Never mind, as my colleague Tasha Robinson has pointed out, the boxes quite literally had thousands of years before Superman was around to do this.) And it’s Batman’s guilt over Superman’s death that incites him to form the Justice League. But that means the entire years-long ploy is just a lazy writing shortcut to kickstart the events of the film.
It also doesn’t help that Superman is so overwhelmingly powerful relative to the rest of the Justice League that his absence for most of the movie gives everyone else a chance to do something first. (Whether or not you agree with it, Justice League presents a fairly conclusive answer to the “Who would win?” game, with Superman both handily defeating the rest of the Justice League and easily turning the tide against Steppenwolf.) A movie where Superman is around to help throw down against Steppenwolf from the start would have been a lot shorter and duller.
Obviously, there has to be some sort of surprise in movies like Justice League. And it’s possible that Warner Bros.’ marketing department was trying to learn from some of the lessons of Batman v Superman, which infamously spoiled both the Wonder Woman and Doomsday reveals in trailers months before the film arrived. It’s a delicate balance: these films need to show fans enough in advance to make sure they show up to theaters, but not enough to completely defeat the point of seeing the film in the first place.
But the takeaway from this entire Superman saga should be that if studios are going to aim for surprise reveals, they need to make the effort to actually keep the secret, and ensure that whatever is unveiled is worth it.
Update November 21st, 1:25pm: In what I assume is a conscious effort to personally troll me, DC and Warner Bros. have released an updated version of this poster for the film (originally released in July at Comic-Con) that now includes Superman.
New official #JusticeLeague poster pic.twitter.com/DeqgQKIUTl


Tether, the startup company that allows users to trade and use digital tokens backed by fiat currencies like the dollar, euro, and yen, says that close to $31 million was stolen from its coffers after a malicious attack. In a post on its website, Tether says $30,950,000 USDT was taken from its treasury wallet on November 19th and sent to a unauthorized digital wallet. USDT is a cryptocurrency token pegged to the US dollar, which is fully backed by assets in the company’s reserve account.
Tether says it will not redeem any of the stolen tokens and that it is in the process of attempting to recover the tokens to prevent them from entering the broader ecosystem. Bitcoin’s price dropped sharply as a result in morning trade, but clawed back some gains to $8,190, according to Bloomberg.
So tether got hacked for $30m pic.twitter.com/v97i9zF5sV
Tether says it’s providing new builds of its software Omni Core to the community and says the updates should prevent any movement of the stolen coins. “Accordingly, any and all exchanges, wallets, and other Tether integrators should install this software immediately in order to prevent loss,” the company wrote. “A thorough investigation on the cause of the attack is being undertaken to prevent similar actions in the future.”


On the first day of the iPhone X release, Avinash ended up with too many phones. After waiting in line, he bought two phones on spec, eventually deciding to list them on Facebook Marketplace for a quick profit. He figured it wouldn’t be hard to find a buyer, and he was right: within hours of listing the phone, he was flooded with offers. But one stood out: someone named Andy Mai was offering to buy the phones for $1,700 apiece, hoping to pick them up that Saturday.
“Obviously, I was pretty taken aback by that,” Avinash says. The buyer arranged to make the exchange outside the 800 Degrees Pizza in Westwood, Los Angeles. He didn’t show up in person, but sent a tall Asian man and another helper, who said they were friends of Mai. After Avinash saw $3,400 come into his Venmo account, he handed over the phones. “Then Monday morning, I get an email saying the funds have been withdrawn.”
It’s unclear why the money was withdrawn, but it’s likely Mai had paid with illicit funds -— either taken from a stolen credit card or a hacked account. Once Venmo caught on to the transaction, the company reversed the charges, sending the money back to its rightful owner. When Avinash told Venmo about the phone handoff, they recommended he contact the LAPD, which pledged to investigate but has shown little sign of tracking down the missing phones. Avinash was left with no phones and was out at least $2,000.
“This money was going to my tuition and my visa processing fees,” he told me. “With that gone, I’m really in a fix.”
Avinash wasn’t the only victim. The Verge first reported on Mai’s scheme in July, tracking thousands of dollars in reversed transactions tied to camera purchases — but the massive scope of the fraud is only now becoming clear: in addition to the cases The Verge identified this summer, we have identified 10 more victims, totaling over $125,000 in reversed transactions, most of which can be linked to the individual, or group of individuals, who go by “Andy Mai.” The earliest heists date back as far as 2014; the most recent one occurred earlier this month. The stolen goods include phones, camera equipment, handbags, and designer sneakers. Sometimes the scams begin with listings on Facebook Marketplace, other times Craigslist. But each scam hinges on a payment made through Venmo, and they all end with victims handing away their goods and receiving nothing in return.
Through it all, Mai seems to have avoided any repercussions from law enforcement or Venmo itself. Nearly all the victims recall an “Andy Mai” account on both Facebook Marketplace and Venmo — but when they called the number provided to them, a different person picked up the phone each time. With dozens of different people taking part in the scam, police have been unable to make much progress on the case. Occasionally, a security camera would pick up footage of the person picking up, or even their license plate — but police never seemed able to do much with those leads.
The scammers have been careful to cover their tracks. Pickups typically take place at a neutral location; given the choice, Mai favors the Westwood pizzeria, just a few minutes’ walk from the UCLA campus. The pickup person seems to be someone new each time, usually young, male, and Asian.
Most victims tell a similar story, with Mai initially reaching out through Facebook Marketplace, then sending money from a Venmo account with some variation of his name. He cycles through Venmo accounts quickly, often being suspended after a particular scam had gone through. But many victims encountered the same Facebook account on Marketplace, showing a handsome Asian man hanging out with friends. The page listed him as an alumni of a local college, and showed a seemingly normal network of friends. But none of the victims that The Verge spoke to have seen the individual in the Facebook profile in person, so it’s plausible the pictures were stolen or faked. As soon as victims began snooping around in earnest, the account was suspended, and it disappeared from Facebook entirely.
Some of the best leads have come from victims themselves. A victim named Jonathan lost an iPhone X to an Andy Mai using the same Venmo account involved in the Avinash scam. (Since the case is still open, Jonathan asked to not use his full name.) He posted his phone to Facebook Marketplace on November 4th. Mai reached out to him with an offer to purchase the phone for $1,500 and the meet-up was arranged at the same Westwood pizza parlor. A short, pudgy Asian man came to pick up the phone, Jonathan says, not more than 25 years old. When the money came through to his Venmo account, Jonathan handed over the phone — but just like Avinash, the money was gone within 24 hours.
Jonathan connected with other victims over Facebook and began to register the scam’s scope. Eager to get his money back, he set a trap, listing another iPhone X for sale on Craigslist. When Mai responded, Jonathan insisted that they meet him in the courtyard of his downtown Los Angeles apartment complex, planning to confront whoever showed up. Before the meeting, I asked if he was scared. After all, if Mai was involved in organized crime, a physical confrontation could be dangerous. Jonathan shrugged it off. “Absolutely not,” he said. “I will hold this guy down until the police get there.”
He was in for a surprise. When he confronted the courier, the man had never heard of the listing or any reversed Venmo charges. He said he was a UCLA student, and had been paid $200 to pick up the package. The only thing he had in common with Mai was that they both spoke Vietnamese. When Jonathan laid out the broader scam, it was clear the courier had no idea what he was involved in.
“He was sweating beyond belief when I cornered him, so I don’t think he was lying,” Jonathan said. “He didn’t really know anything about the guy. He knew his voice, but that’s it.”
Mai has been able to play that trick reliably enough to turn it into an ongoing racket, making a small fortune off unsuspecting phone flippers and other peer-to-peer sellers. The most recent surge of victims has come with the iPhone X release, as line-sitters look to flip Apple’s most expensive phone for a profit. But The Verge was contacted by victims reaching as far back as the iPhone 6 Plus launch in 2014, when Mai bought 44 phones from a reseller for more than $40,000. (All of the money was recalled shortly after the purchase.)
Another incident involved six pairs of Yeezy Zebras, a sought-after sneaker collaboration between Adidas and Kanye West. The victim listed the sneakers for $13,550 in March, near the peak of their value, and lost his entire haul to Mai’s scam. Other users reported similar scams after listing handbags from Hermès and Chanel.
Mai’s scam exploits a little-known weakness in how Venmo works. Outside of a few recent merchant-based systems, Venmo doesn’t provide fraud protection, and recommends users only transact with people they know and trust. That lets Venmo transfer money without taking a fee, but it also leaves users vulnerable to criminals like Mai. If a scammer can convince someone to trade goods for a Venmo payment, they can pay with stolen money and get away clean. Within 24 hours, Venmo will reverse the charges, leaving sellers with no money and no goods.
Though Venmo is explicit that it doesn’t recoup losses from fraud, it still monitors for account takeovers and payments that involve stolen money. “As a service of PayPal, Inc, Venmo has the benefit of nearly 20 years of experience in payments security and fraud prevention,” one representative told The Verge. “We have many tools that we use to monitor accounts and transactions that can lead to investigation. If ever a question is raised about an account, our account specialist team will investigate and take appropriate action.”
Venmo’s simultaneous lack of fraud protection and wording about fraudulent account monitoring can be confusing. When Avinash received the fraud warning that accompanied the charge reversal, he assumed Venmo was cracking down on Mai. “If they were proactive enough to block my account for receiving the money,” he says, “how is this person able to keep opening accounts to do this?”
The situation has gotten even more confusing as Venmo has expanded into retail. In September, the company began shipping its own debit cards, and a month after that, it expanded to allow e-commerce payments wherever PayPal is accepted. That leaves a mess of different transaction types that are largely invisible to the average user, some with fraud protections and some without. Crucially, the system leaves peer-to-peer transactions completely vulnerable.
Reached for comment, Venmo emphasized that the product is not intended for actual transactions, and users should only use Venmo retail services with authorized vendors. “PayPal and Venmo are continually working to combat and prevent the illicit use of our services,” a representative said. “We devote significant resources to financial crime compliance, and we proactively refer cases to and assist law enforcement officials in their efforts to identify, investigate and stop illegal activity.”
Still, the scam doesn’t seem to be going anywhere. While Mai’s activities are focused around Los Angeles, The Verge has documented similar heist reports in New York City and the Bay Area. Since our initial article in July, various representatives from the Los Angeles Police Department have expressed a belief that Mai will be caught soon, but there’s been no indication of an arrest or other investigative progress.
In the meantime, Avinash is left looking for someone who can help him get his money back. “I’m still waiting for someone from the police department to get back to me,” he says. “There’s just not a lot of options there.”


Microsoft’s Skype app for Android and iOS has been removed from a number of app stores in China for almost a month. The New York Times reports that Skype has been removed due to local laws that apply to VoIP services in China. “We have been notified by the Ministry of Public Security that a number of voice over internet protocol apps do not comply with local law,” says an Apple spokesperson in a statement to the NYT. “Therefore these apps have been removed from the app store in China.”
While Google’s official Play Store doesn’t operate in China, other third-party Android app services have also removed Skype. It’s not clear how long Skype will remain blocked from these app stores, but a Microsoft spokesperson tells the NYT that Skype has been “temporarily removed” from Apple’s App Store in China. The software giant is “working to reinstate the app as soon as possible.”
The Skype removal comes just months after China started blocking WhatsApp. Other services like Gmail, Facebook, and Twitter are all blocked by Chinese government filters.


Toyota has revealed its third generation humanoid robot, the T-HR3, which can be controlled and synchronized with the operator’s movements. The user wears data gloves and an HTC Vive VR headset that’s linked to cameras to show the robot’s perspective. T-HR3 stands 1.54 meters tall and weighs 75kg ( 5 feet, 1 inches / 165 pounds) and was developed to explore the possibility of assisting humans in the home, medical facilities, construction sites, disaster areas, and even in space, Toyota says.
The operator can control the robot’s entire body using what's called the Master Maneuvering System (MMS) — 16 torque servo modules in the chair, motion and force sensors at the feet, and 29 more torque servo modules located in the robot’s joints.
When the user moves, the MMS signals to the robot’s 29 body parts (including 10 fingers) to move. The operator can move the robot forwards or laterally by making walking movements while remaining in place. The robot also has balance control, so if it collides with an object, it can keep its balance. Force can be controlled as well, as highlighted by the video when the robot gently picks up a balloon-like ball.
"The Partner Robot team members are committed to using the technology in T-HR3 to develop friendly and helpful robots that coexist with humans and assist them in their daily lives," said Akifumi Tamaoki, general manager of Toyota’s robots. "Looking ahead, the core technologies developed for this platform will help inform and advance future development of robots to provide ever-better mobility for all."
T-HR3 will be shown at the International Robot Exhibition in Tokyo from November 29th to December 2nd. Too bad it can’t do backflips.



I like watches. I wear one every single day, without fail, and have since I was in elementary school. I also like gadgets a lot, which means that a smartwatch is something that I’ve always been intrigued by and wanted in my life.
But despite being both a watch wearer and a fan of overwrought gadgets, I’ve never found a liking for the Apple Watch. The early iterations had a clumsy interface, slow performance, and just average battery life. They always left me disappointed and looking for something else after a short while.
Apple has added many features and improvements to the Watch since its debut in 2015. The company has completely re-architected how the user interface works, but for the most part its feature additions have been focused on a specific type of user: an active person who wants to use the Apple Watch to track all of their workouts and fitness activities.
Last year’s Series 2 model added standalone GPS, which is hugely helpful for getting accurate maps of your runs. It also introduced swim tracking, so you can use the Apple Watch to record your lap times. This year’s Series 3 builds on that with optional LTE connectivity, which allows you to leave your iPhone at home and still be connected.
My colleague Lauren Goode has already gone in depth on the Watch’s fitness features, which you can read about here and here. (In short: GPS is great. LTE needs some work.) But I am not terribly concerned with fitness-tracking features or LTE connectivity. For me, the extent of working out is when I have to run to catch the train before it leaves the station, or shoveling snow when we get the next inevitable nor’easter. And there is never a time where I’ll leave the house without my phone in my hand or pocket.
In addition to the highly publicized fitness features, Apple has been iterating on the things that make the Watch a useful wrist computer, including better battery life, easier-to-use software, and much faster performance. So, for the past two weeks, I’ve worn the latest Apple Watch to get an idea of where it’s at as a smartwatch, not a fitness tracker. I haven’t used LTE connectivity or GPS tracking, two features that don’t impact my day-to-day use, but I have managed a lot of notifications, interacted with a bunch of third-party apps, controlled my smart home gadgets, checked the weather countless times, and even used Siri almost every day. And, of course, with the Apple Watch on my wrist, instead of my usual analog watch, I’ve used it to check the time a bunch, too.
My conclusion, after testing the $329 (and up) Apple Watch Series 3 without LTE, is that it’s hands-down the best option if you want a smartwatch to go with your iPhone. It’s fast, has by far the best support for third-party apps and integrations, and its battery life is reliable enough that I don’t have to charge it every single day. That isn’t to say it’s perfect — far from it — nor is it to say that everyone needs a smartwatch. But if you’ve already decided that you do want a smartwatch, or if you’ve tried the Apple Watch in the past and were frustrated with its performance, usability, or battery life, the Apple Watch Series 3 is what you want.
At this point, the Apple Watch’s design is iconic, and it hasn’t changed at all since 2015. Its rounded rectangular shape is distinctive enough that I can easily spot one from across a room or subway car, and it’s compact and comfortable in ways that other smartwatches only dream of. The 42mm space gray aluminum model that I’ve been wearing has the same level of fit and finish as any other Apple product, which means it’s damn near perfect. I’ve worn other smartwatches that cost orders of magnitude more than this and don’t have the build quality that Apple manages here.
But that iconic design also means that every Apple Watch looks like every other Apple Watch, and when millions of people already own these things, it’s hard to project a sense of personality or taste with one. Yes, you can opt for one of two sizes; a silver, gold, or gray color; aluminum, stainless steel, or ceramic finishes; and a wide variety of first-party or third-party straps (I’ve been wearing Nomad’s Modern Leather strap for the most part), but there’s no mistaking the Apple Watch for anything else. If you’re accustomed to people asking you about the watch on your wrist because it’s unique or different, you can forget about that happening with the Apple Watch. Call it a victim of its own success, if you will.
That said, the Watch’s design is very functional, with its bright, colorful square display making it easy to read text indoors or out, and its two buttons plus a touchscreen make it easy to navigate the interface. The spinning crown is particularly great for scrolling through lists, zooming in on images or maps, or making quick volume adjustments when listening to music.
None of the above is new, but what is new is just how fast and responsive the Apple Watch Series 3 is. Thanks to its new S3 processor and improvements made in watchOS, everything happens faster on the Series 3. The interface is more responsive, third-party apps open much quicker, and even Siri is quick enough to no longer be frustrating. I found myself actually wanting to use the Watch for things I’d typically just go straight to my phone for, like setting timers, checking the weather with Carrot, or adjusting my Ecobee thermostat, because the responsiveness is so much better than before.
Additionally, battery life has been greatly improved with the Series 3 over earlier Watch versions. While Apple still only says the Series 3 is good for “up to 18 hours” of battery life, I routinely get two days between charges, and sometimes even longer. (I do not wear the Watch when I sleep because that is awful and uncomfortable.) The reason for the longer battery life is the new, more efficient processor and a larger battery cell in the Watch itself, designed to compensate for the GPS and LTE functionality. But if you never use GPS or LTE, like me, the Watch can easily go for longer than a single day.
Despite the better battery life, Apple still doesn’t offer an always-on display function, which means the screen is off until you lift your wrist, a notification wakes it up, or you tap it. I’d easily give up a significant chunk of the improved battery life if it means I could have an always-on screen that I can quickly glance at to check the time without needing to raise my arm or interact with the Watch in some way.
Speaking of interactions, unless you use Siri to do everything, the Watch remains a two-handed device. I wear the Watch on my left wrist and that means I can’t do anything with it if there’s something in my right hand, such as a coffee cup, bag of groceries, or toddler. Android Wear’s gesture-based controls may be exceedingly goofy, but they do let me scroll through notifications without having to touch the watch.
A lot of the improvements Apple has made over the years are in the Watch’s software, and watchOS 4 is the best version of it yet. Apple has removed many of the unorthodox ideas, such as using the crown to scroll ahead in time or tapping the side button to see a list of favorite contacts, and replaced them with more obvious actions that mimic how the iPhone works.
Pressing the side button brings up a vertical carousel of recently accessed apps, while swiping up from the watchface opens toggles for connectivity, sound, and other functions. Swipe down from the top and you can see all of your notifications, or you can swipe left or right across the screen to quickly change watchfaces. Pressing the crown’s button still brings up the weird constellation of app icons, but I’ve found that I don’t need to dive into that very often because I just set my most-used apps as widgets on the watchface itself.
WatchOS 4 also brings a much improved Siri experience that’s faster and allows Siri to talk back to you for a fully hands-free / eyes-free experience. There’s also a new Siri watchface that shows upcoming appointments, weather, news, and more, but it’s not something I found particularly useful in my day to day.
The upside of all of these software improvements is that they are available on any generation of Apple Watch; you don’t have to buy the latest and greatest model to take advantage of them. If you do buy a Series 3 model, you will benefit from faster performance over earlier models, but the difference between a Series 3 and last year’s Series 1 or Series 2 is not going to be significant enough to warrant an upgrade for the increased speed alone. (If you have a first-generation Apple Watch from 2015, you are much more likely to see a performance difference with a Series 3.)
My takeaway after two-plus weeks with the latest smartwatch Apple has to offer is that it isn’t trying to convince the world that everyone needs a smartwatch. Instead, the improvements here make the smartwatch experience better for those that have already converted.
If you’re like me, and are into the concept of managing notifications and checking small bits of information on your wrist, the Apple Watch Series 3 does those things very well, with fewer headaches than earlier models. It’s better than using an Android Wear or Samsung Gear watch with an iPhone, simply because of its deeper integration with iOS and support for far more third-party apps and services. I would recommend skipping right past the LTE model and saving $70, which you can then spend on getting a different strap than the default silicone option that comes with the Watch.
There’s also a good argument to be made that the best Apple Watch for those that don’t care much about fitness tracking is the Series 1, which Apple still sells for $80 less than the Series 3. It is able to take advantage of all of the new improvements Apple has made in watchOS 4 and can provide a very similar experience to the Series 3. But unless your budget is really strapped, the Series 3 model will provide longer battery life and faster performance, and will likely be supported by future versions of watchOS for longer.
The Apple Watch may not ever be the promised device that liberates us from the shackles of our smartphones, but three years into its existence, it is a very competent and capable smartwatch. Now if only it would show me the time all of the time.


This all-new 2018 Vantage is a very important car for Aston Martin. It is not its signature vehicle, like the DB Series cars, named for David Brown who saved the company from financial ruin in the mid-20th century. It is not their hypercar “halo” flagship, like the $2.5 million Valkyrie, developed as a Formula One racer for the road. But it has long been the company’s best-selling model, its bread and butter, its gateway point of entrée for consumers. It’s a six-figure sports car that epitomizes the brand’s delicate, almost alchemical, blend of performance, luxury, and beauty.
This Vantage raises the bar in all three areas. Enhanced speed comes courtesy of the growling twin-turbocharged 4.0-liter V8 engine, produced by Mercedes-Benz, which holds a 5 percent stake in the boutique British brand. Benz has a hand in the technology that underpins the new car as well, providing its digital dashboard and COMAND information and entertainment screens and interface. Interior indulgence comes courtesy of Aston’s talented craftspeople, who create wood and composite marquetry, knurl metal knobs, and handily “brogue” leather — piercing it in a constellation pattern, as on a wingtip shoe, to allow subtle sub-dermal contrasting colors to come through. And the new exterior design takes the Vantage’s sharp-nosed, flat-tailed bullet shape and makes it at once more sensuous and more muscular. (Though we might be tempted by a more, ahem, traditional color than this noxious Lime Essence.)
A crisper nose, broader hips, more sculpted sides, and additional aggressive aerodynamic add-ons give the new Vantage a more menacing silhouette. The Vantage’s designers liken the shape to a shark: always in motion, seeking its prey. A narrowed greenhouse — the openings for the windows and windshields — makes the car appear lower, more connected to the ground.
The trim bits on the traditional “hill climb” Aston grille, the skirts under the doors, the rear fascia, and the triangular fender vents can be ordered in body color, gloss black, satin titanium, or exposed carbon fiber. A two-pipe dual exhaust system comes as standard; a four-pipe quad exhaust is optional.
The car uses no active aerodynamic aids to enhance road-holding, just the sculpted body kit and front and rear spoilers and diffusers. The narrow horizontal headlamps are inspired by those on the car Aston custom-designed for the last James Bond movie, Spectre.
The signature Aston Martin “waterfall” — a curved cascade running down the middle of the cabin from windshield to center console — has been replaced by a more logical, and sporty, landscape array. Clear crystal transmission shift pushbuttons remain, but are now arranged in an arc. The blank triangular space in front of the infotainment controller can (and will) house a 7-speed manual transmission, a rarity in contemporary sports cars, but an Aston brand promise.
Contrasting color hand-stitching, embroidery, and broguing abounds in the cabin, offering distinctive moments of levity and delight. Trim pieces can be ordered in multiple materials and colors. Aston’s “Q” specialization shop can customize your car to your specifications. A squared-off steering wheel is shared with the DB11.
The Vantage is perfectly balanced, with 50 percent of its weight over the front and 50 percent over the rear. Lightweight metal alloys and composite materials help keep the car’s weight down to around a mere 3,300 pounds.
·      First US deliveries of the new Vantage will take place in June 2018·      Price: Under $150,000·      Performance: 0-60 3.6 seconds, Top Speed 195 mph·      Power: 4.0 liter twin-turbocharged V8 503 hp / 505 lb-ft·      Dog not included


Microsoft appears to be testing a new Windows 10 search user interface that floats across the screen. Italian blog Aggiornamenti Lumia discovered the new search interface in the latest test build of Windows 10 (17040) released last week. The new look replaces the Cortana interface for now, and could be a sign Microsoft is looking to improve its keyboard-based searching.
A floating search bar includes the same results you’d find in the Start Menu or from the Cortana search bar in the current taskbar on Windows 10. The search bar can also be activated using the Windows+S shortcut, and it looks very similar to the macOS Spotlight search interface. While the immersive Cortana search interface is currently in testing, I’m hoping Microsoft opts to make this even more powerful than Spotlight search.
Alfred for Mac and Wox for Windows offer a much more powerful way to search, integrating in custom web queries and automated workflows. Microsoft has shunned this type of advanced search for years, but opening up the search interface to be more powerful would be a step in the right direction for an operating system that’s marketed as “more productive” and for creators.



Rez Infinite is one of the best games available for PlayStation VR, Oculus Rift, and the Vive, but the mind-bending experience has always required you to be tethered to a TV or PC. That changes today with the first version of the game for mobile VR — Rez Infinite is out now for Google Daydream.
That means owners of any Pixel phone, the Samsung Galaxy S8 and Note 8, the LG V30, and a handful of other devices will be able to play Rez Infinite with Google's Daydream View headset and controller. It's probably the most significant game release for the platform since it launched last year, and while I can't vouch for how good this version is, I do suddenly want to play Rez in VR on a plane.
Rez Infinite is free to download on Daydream, but unlocking the full game requires a $9.99 purchase.


The latest weapon in the fight against opioid addiction may be sensors in prescription opioids that alert physicians whenever their patients pop a pill. These digital pills aren’t on the market yet, but a small test run shows that they can help doctors monitor how patients use prescription painkillers at home.
By prescribing opioids equipped with radio transmitters to patients treated for broken bones, researchers tracked patients’ pill use in real time. The research team, led by Peter Chai at Harvard Medical School’s Brigham and Women’s Hospital, found that most of the patients started spacing out their doses after a few days, and stopped before their pills ran out, according to the study published in the journal Anesthesia and Analgesia. (The participants turned their remaining pills in to their docs).
Prescribing too many pills might lead patients to take more than they need, the study says — or leave them with extra pills to be sold. So giving researchers a way to track how many pills patients actually use could help doctors write better opioid prescriptions that leave fewer pills left over. Digital pills could also help doctors spot — and stop — dangerous drug use early. This level of detail is a first: typically, doctors have no way to monitor opioid use once a patient goes home with a bottle of pills. “We’re placing the onus of one of the most dangerous medicines we have into the hands of patients,” says Chai, a physician and medical toxicologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital.
Chai wanted to know if there was a way to spot problematic drug use as the behavior emerges. If someone suddenly starts taking their prescribed painkillers more frequently, for example, it could mean they’re suffering from a painful complication. Or it could mean they’re growing tolerant to the drug, and could begin misusing it. “Those are two different conversations,” Chai says — and they’re ones that are only possible if a doctor can track their patients’ pill use.
That’s where the digital pills come in. Made by a Florida-based company called eTectRx, they’re gel capsules that contain both the drug and a radio transmitter “about the size of a sesame seed,” Chai says. (They’re a little different from the digital versions of antipsychotic Abilify, which the Food and Drug Administration just approved.)
Once the pill hits the patient’s stomach, the gel cap dissolves — releasing both the oxycodone tablet and the transmitter. The transmitter powers up when it touches stomach acid, and signals to an iPod-sized device via a patch stuck to the patient’s belly.  This device then beams a message to a database in the cloud, telling the doctor that the patient has swallowed a pill. (Patients need to put on the device when they take the pill in order for it to register.) Eventually, the patient poops out the tiny transmitter. Chai says he does not want the transmitters back.
The team sent 15 patients who’d been treated for broken bones home with 21 of these pills, along with instructions to take them for a week as needed. The researchers found that most patients started tapering their opioid doses on their own, and stopped after about four days — before the full week was up. None took all 21 pills, and most took many fewer — which means doctors might be sending people with fractures home with too many painkillers that could then be sold or misused.
The researchers also spotted an alarming trend: people were taking painkillers right before going to sleep to pre-empt waking up with pain. But Chai says this could lead to dangerous drops in breathing for some people — and it’s a practice they might not have identified without the digital pills.
It’s still early, but Chai says that the next round of studies will use an even more sophisticated version of these digital pill detectors. “We’re playing with the 1990s iPod. We have the iPhone X now,” Chai says. Of course, the patients will still actually have to wear the device — when they forgot, their doctors were left just as in the dark as before.


GE’s been making some really simple and accessible smart lights called C by GE for the past two years, and today, the company is announcing its first big upgrade to the system. It’s a hub, called the C-Reach, that connects C by GE lights to Wi-Fi so that they can be controlled by Alexa or the Google Assistant.
The device costs $50 on its own, but GE will also sell it bundled with pairs of bulbs at a discount — $65 for two “Life” bulbs (which have a single color option) and $85 for two “Sleep” bulbs (which have three color options).
The C-Reach hub is a useful addition to the product line that starts to make it a lot more capable — if also a lot more expensive. The strength of C by GE bulbs has always been that they’re really easy to get started with, since they rely on Bluetooth and connect directly to a phone, meaning there’s no need for a hub. The downside has been that they were pretty limited beyond that. Because they only use Bluetooth, you can’t control them remotely or set up complicated routines very easily, since the bulbs don’t connect to much else.
GE is solving that problem with the C-Reach hub, though it’s also taking away the line’s great strength. In paying to add these features to the C bulbs, everything gets pricey and complicated enough that the C system doesn’t really seem worth investing in. For little more than those prices, you can buy into Philips’ much more flexible Hue smart lighting system, which even offers cheaper bulbs.
On top of that, GE promised that this hub would support Apple’s HomeKit system, but as of now, it doesn’t — though support is said to be in the works. A representative told us that GE is “actively working with Apple on HomeKit compatibility and expect to launch that on this system in the first quarter.” For the time being, this product is really only a worthwhile buy if you also have an Amazon Echo or a Google Home. GE also said the product would sell for below $50. It does, but by only a penny.
Basically, this hub is probably only worth getting if you already own some C by GE bulbs. And even then, you may want to consider putting that money toward a more robust smart light system if you like them enough to know you want more features.
GE is running some sales on all of its C lighting line for Black Friday, making things a bit cheaper if you buy right away. The two bulb and a hub starter kits will sell for $50 and $65, instead of $65 and $85. And GE’s Sol lamp will go on sale for $100 on its own or bundled with four C bulbs for $120.
Update November 21st, 8:04AM ET: This story has been updated to include comment from GE on HomeKit support.


Riot Games is making a big change to its professional League of Legends championship series in North America. Back in June, the developer announced a major shift for the NA LCS, which would see the circuit move from a system of promotion and relegation to one with 10 permanent teams. Now, Riot is revealing the 10 franchises that will compete in the new league format starting next year, and the list includes brand-new teams backed by the likes of the Houston Rockets and Golden State Warriors. “We wanted partners who shared our mindset for building for the long term,” says Jarred Kennedy, co-head of Riot’s e-sports division.
According to Riot, the shift to permanent teams was made with an eye toward the future growth of the league. With a guaranteed spot for each squad, the thinking is that each owner will be more likely to invest in their team for the long haul. That includes things like creating training facilities, as well as investing in areas like coaching, scouting, and player wellness. Each of the 10 teams will have an academy squad, designed to give up-and-comers a chance to learn before going pro, and Riot is also working to improve the standards for players, which includes raising the minimum salary to $75,000. (Riot says that on average League pros make around $150,000 per year.) The league is also creating a players’ association to support its athletes with financial, legal, and career-building resources.
The permanent franchise structure is common in North American leagues like the NBA and NFL, and the new slate of teams for the NA LCS includes a number of prominent names from the traditional sports world. Seven of the clubs previously competed in the league — Cloud9, Counter Logic Gaming, Echo Fox, FlyQuest, Team Liquid, and TSM — while the remainder are new faces. They include Clutch Gaming, backed by the Rockets; the Golden Guardians, which is owned by the Warriors; and 100 Thieves, backed by both former e-sports pro Matthew "Nadeshot" Haag and the Cleveland Cavaliers. Optic Gaming, meanwhile, is a new addition that has previous experience with teams in games like Overwatch and Dota 2.
Much like the upcoming Overwatch League from Blizzard, Riot’s refreshed pro circuit features a mixture of big e-sports names as well as prominent players from traditional sports. “In creating a collection of partners, you want groups of folks that are going to compliment one another,” says Kennedy. “We looked at things like business acumen. We wanted folks who knew how to build a brand, to build and operate a team, bring in sponsorships, and engage fans in unique ways. We also wanted a history, or a track record, or a plan for building their fanbase.”
Logos for newcomers 100 Thieves (above), the Golden Guardians (left), and Clutch Gaming (right).
As part of the new structure, Riot is also introducing a new revenue sharing model, which will see all 10 teams and Riot contribute earnings from revenue streams like media deals and merchandise sales into a pot, which will then be shared out among everyone. Players will get 35 percent of the pool, owners 32.5 percent, while the rest goes to Riot. “It will create an incentive to work together and collaborate and build this league,” says Whalen Rozelle, the other co-head of Riot’s e-sports division.
With these changes, the NA LCS is starting to look a lot like a traditional sports league, something that’s becoming increasingly common as big sports clubs enter the space. According to Kennedy, the goal was to create something that mixed the best elements from existing leagues with concepts that were unique to the e-sports realm. “We didn’t look at any one template to say, ‘Hey, we want to be exactly like the NBA, or we want to be just like Premier League soccer.’ We picked and chose elements from various places,” he says. For now, that means that — unlike the ambitious Overwatch League — Riot isn’t looking at having teams based in specific cities.
“The concept of city-based leagues really relies on the fact that you have these teams that have to play in a location, so therefore you go to that location and watch them play,” says Rozelle. “But nowadays with streaming and playing online, you can watch anyone play from anywhere in the world. The potential downside is that [a city-based structure] may not be something that e-sports fans actually benefit from. It’s not a structure we necessarily want to force. That said, would we consider it in the future? Absolutely. If it ends up being to the league’s and fans’ benefit, it’s something we’ll do. But we’re going to take more time to understand the pros outweigh the cons.”
That said, while Riot is looking to emulate some of the enduring success of North America’s top professional sports leagues, Kennedy says that these kinds of changes aren’t being made in an attempt see League e-sports breakout as a big mainstream success on par with the NBA or NFL. “I think we’re OK without it breaking out,” he says. “That’s not something we’re looking to force. I think staying true to the fans who can truly appreciate the game, and who are at the heart of it, that’s the strategy that we’ve been successful with and we’re continuing to pursue. We’re laser-focused on the core fans that we have.”


Amazon’s second-generation Echo has the benefit of easily swappable shells, and today the company announced that it’s releasing a red version of the smart speaker to benefit (RED) and its fight against AIDS.
Other than the unique color, the (RED) Echo is identical to the regular version. The only difference is that for every (RED) Echo sold, Amazon will donate $10 to the charity. Plenty of tech companies have teamed up with (RED) in the past to release special versions of their products. Apple has famously released numerous iPods and accessories over the years to support the charity, including a red iPhone 7 earlier this year.


Chinese robotics company Ubtech has launched Lynx, the first humanoid robot with Alexa built in. It does everything Alexa can, like setting reminders and playing music through the speakers in its “ears,” plus a few extra features. There’s a Surveillance Mode that will have Lynx take and send a 30-second video to the companion app on your smartphone if it detects any sound or movement via its infrared chest sensor. And the Avatar Mode lets you see and speak through the robot’s camera and microphone, so you “don’t miss another event again by sending Lynx in your place!” It costs $800.
The above photo was the first time I saw Lynx, and I was extremely disappointed to find out that Lynx is only 20 inches tall. I had hoped she (the product description lists her as a female) would be a human-sized robot companion that could “walk and talk” with me, trailing along as I barked out items to put on the grocery list.
Lynx can also sing, dance, and teach yoga, which is a strangely brazen decision for a robot to make. What does a robot know about joint pain?
And let’s talk about Avatar Mode. Imagine putting this robot on the conference table for a meeting. Imagine this robot was your boss, Skyping in for a check-in. This cat-sized robot is your boss, and you have to face it and speak at it, and your boss’s voice will be transmitted through its tiny mouth, only the sound will be coming out of its ear-speakers.
If this all sounds great to you and you’d be more than happy to pay $800 for a robot-boss, it’s available right now exclusively on Amazon. But then again, this is the first humanoid robot ever with Alexa built-in, which means there’s room for improvement. Ubtech is releasing a stormtrooper robot this Christmas that would be a way better candidate for Alexa integration, so hopefully they’ll come around. Or may I suggest Sony’s new Aibo dog robot? I wouldn’t mind learning some doga (dog yoga).


A few days ago, there was a flash-in-the-pan controversy over Google "forking" Apple's open-source programming language Swift. After a few minutes of speculation over whether Google was going to make its own special flavor of the language for its own purposes, Swift's creator Chris Lattner (who now works at Google) helpfully clarified the situation:
Swift at Google has enough folks working on it that we need a staging ground/integration point, and we decided it should be public. https://t.co/hyphe0KrU0
Google just wanted its own working copy of the code so it could make changes and then contribute them "upstream" to the official Swift repository. No funny business.
What's more interesting is that one of those changes has already landed as a pull request to the main Swift repo: Fuchsia support (via Android Police). Google developer Zac Bowling, who helped port Objective-C to Android a few years ago, even shared the news as a reply to Lattner’s tweet:
And my team is adding support to Swift to target Fuchsia. https://t.co/ziGwc11yih
You can also stalk Google’s code review system to check out an example Swift app for Fuchsia, which prints out some emoji and the Chinese characters for “hello world.” Once Google’s suggested changes to Swift are merged, that code should run.
Fuchsia is Google's not-at-all-but-kind-of-secret operating system that's being developed in the open, but with almost zero official messaging about what it's for, or what it's built to replace. (Android? Chrome OS? Both? Neither?) The operating system's core is written in mostly C and C++, with Dart for the default "Flutter" UI, but other languages like Go, Rust, Python, and now Swift have also found a home in the project.
Of course, just because you'll be able to compile Swift to run on Fuchsia doesn't mean you'll be able to instantly port any iOS app to Google's new OS when or if it ships. While Apple has open sourced the Swift language itself, much of the iOS platform (like the UI stuff, for instance) is closed source, so code that relies on those closed Apple libraries won't be portable.
One possible future in a world where Fuchsia is an important and relevant platform for apps is that you write the "core logic" of your app in your language of choice — Swift, Go, Rust, JavaScript, etc. — and then you build a custom UI for each platform — Android, iOS, Fuchsia, Linux, Windows, the web — using the appropriate tools for each.
The alternative path could be the continued adoption of tools like Google's Flutter, or Facebook's React Native, which allow you to target multiple platforms with a single language like Dart (Google), or JavaScript (Facebook). There's even a cross-platform framework called SCADE that allows you to build iOS and Android apps in Swift.
It's a fun time to be a language nerd, and maybe someday it will even be a fun time to be an app developer.


Several years after US government officials got involved in the massive Takata airbag recall that encompassed tens of millions of cars, many still haven’t been repaired. One of the automakers implicated in the recall scandal is turning to Facebook to track down owners.
On Monday, Honda announced a new set of initiatives to complete the replacement of defective Takata inflators, which have caused hundreds of injuries and deaths. Millions of Hondas sold in the US still haven’t been repaired, so the automaker is using Facebook Custom Audiences to find owners.
“To reach specific owners of affected vehicles, encrypted email addresses associated with recalled VINs are matched to Facebook UserIDs,” Honda said in a news release. “When a customer logs into Facebook, they are presented with a custom message featuring the PSA in their Facebook feed.”
The automaker’s US arm also released a video Monday urging owners to get their vehicles checked out and repaired if necessary. Honda enlisted Stephanie Erdman, who testified November 20th, 2014 before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation about how the inflator on her 2002 Honda Civic ruptured and sent metal shrapnel into her eye. The video is set for local broadcast TV airings, the company said.
The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration requires automakers of vehicles subject to recall to notify owners by mail, using information obtained by state vehicle registration records. Recalls can also be verified on NHTSA’s website using the vehicle’s identification number. But in many cases, these letters go unnoticed or are sent to outdated addresses and vehicles go without repair. And since some of the affected vehicles are at least 10 years old, they could have been sold two or more times by now.
Honda, one of the automakers most affected by the Takata inflator scandal, estimates it’s replaced 71 percent of the recalled inflators in the US, Chris Martin from American Honda told The Verge Monday. But roughly 4.7 million inflators in US Honda vehicles have not yet been replaced. Despite the 2.2 million mailers sent out in July, Honda is making another push to reach owners.
The Takata inflators involved in a series of recalls have been reported to send metal fragments out of the airbag, sometimes without the vehicle being involved in a crash, and injuring or killing people in vehicles made and sold around the world. Honda began recalling vehicles globally in 2013 following more than 100 injuries and eight deaths, later admitting it and Takata knew about the defects for many years.
Previously a leading airbag supplier to automakers that also included BMW, General Motors, Volkswagen and even Tesla, Takata was slammed in January with $1 billion in fines and restitution by US regulators over the scandal. It filed for bankruptcy in June.



While Americans are busy traveling, paying attention to Black Friday deals, and spending time with family, the Federal Communications Commission will be rolling out its least popular proposal of the year: its final plan to dismantle net neutrality — the set of rules that prevent internet providers from giving some websites and internet traffic an advantage over others. According to The Wall Street Journal, the FCC is expected to unveil its proposal this week, less than three months after the public comment period ended on the initial proposal. The process generated 22 million comments for the commission to read and consider.
The FCC’s final proposal is likely to completely undo the strict net neutrality rules that the FCC enacted just two years ago. To do that, the proposal will have to reclassify internet providers as information services, under Title I of the Communications Act, instead of common carriers, under Title II of the Act. This seemingly dull legal distinction is the difference between giving the FCC some oversight of ISPs (Title I) and the ability to place rigorous consumer protections on them (Title II).
Republicans at the FCC, who are behind this proposal, argue that the stricter rules enacted two years ago have hampered investment in broadband and caused internet providers to slow the expansion of their networks. This is a problem, given that the FCC is tasked with ensuring the entire country gets connected. But there isn’t a ton of data to back this up. It’s only been two years, and though there was a small dip in investment, it was also attributable to factors like high oil prices and costly acquisitions. The Republican commissioners also just generally believe that making companies fill out compliance forms and follow rules is onerous and prevents innovation.
Supporters of net neutrality argue that its provisions are necessary to prevent internet providers from squeezing more money out of consumers and destroying small businesses that are trying to compete with established web giants. One fear is that without net neutrality, internet providers will begin offering “paid fast lanes,” which would allow wealthy companies to pay ISPs for a better connection to consumers. That could create real competition problems: Netflix, for instance, can afford to pay these fees and offer a snappy connection to everyone, but it’ll be much harder for a new streaming service to attract customers and get off the ground without a costly investment in delivery speed.
Net neutrality rules also prevent internet providers from advantaging their own content and blocking competitors’ apps and services. Comcast, for instance, might want to deliver video from NBC, which it owns, faster than video from Netflix, which it competes with. It might also choose to exempt NBC video from counting toward a subscriber’s data cap, encouraging them to watch NBC instead of a competitor. Likewise, net neutrality prevents things like Verizon blocking an NFC payments app because it would rather you use an app called ISIS that it had an investment in.
For now, we don’t have a full idea of what the FCC’s final proposal will look like — mostly because its initial proposal was so incredibly vague. It seems very safe to assume that it’ll undo the Title II classification of internet providers and therefore remove all current net neutrality protections, since that’s the crux of the initial proposal. But there are some very big open questions beyond that: namely, what consumer protections will the FCC put in place of the rules that it’s striking down? That is, if it puts in place any new rules at all.
A federal court has already ruled that, under the Title I classification the FCC plans to go back to, the commission doesn’t have the authority to put in place full net neutrality rules. It can put in place some rules, but they can’t go as far as, for example, completely banning paid fast lanes. So when the proposal is released, we’ll be looking to find out how far it goes to restrict paid fast lanes, limit blocking of apps and services, and prevent unfair throttling of web traffic.
FCC leadership seems skeptical that protections around these things are needed at all. And Republicans have argued that restricting them would limit ISPs’ ability to offer new pricing models that could potentially allow them to extend service to low-income and rural communities that otherwise wouldn’t be profitable enough to serve. (There is a tragic irony in Republicans voting to pull back on low-income broadband subsidies just last week.) Because of those concerns, it’s also fairly safe to guess that whatever remnants of the net neutrality protections remain are likely to be much more limited in scope and offer a lot more flexibility to ISPs, even if it means opening up anti-competitive risks.
The FCC’s next meeting, where it votes on proposals, is December 14th. That’s when it’s expected to vote on its plan to reverse net neutrality. There’s no firm date on when the proposal will be announced, but the commission usually details its plans for each meeting several weeks ahead of time, and, as of this year, publicly reveals the text of what it’ll be voting on, too. Scheduling the net neutrality announcement for Thanksgiving week may be a coincidence, but it certainly seems like the FCC is trying to release this plan at a time when it’ll be harder for net neutrality advocates to give it their full attention.


Huawei’s Honor sub-brand has announced its newest midrange device, the Honor 7X, which serves as the successor to last year’s Honor 6X. Like the 6X, which served as a cheaper option below the Honor 8 (Honor’s 2016 flagship), the 7X is a more budget-minded alternative to this year’s Honor 9 flagship.
But while the 6X stood out from other budget phones by offering a dual-camera system usually found on high-end smartphones, the 7X is hoping to make an impression by going bigger, with a 5.93-inch “Fullview” display to evoke the reduced-bezel designs of flagships like the Galaxy S8 or iPhone X. The Honor 7X also offers a fingerprint reader and an entirely metal shell, which are both nice additions.
Of course, the 7X is still a midrange smartphone, so the end result isn’t quite the same truly bezel-less design that Apple and Samsung’s dramatically more expensive devices offer.
The rest of the specs are more or less what you’d expect from a midrange device like this: Huawei’s own Kirin 659 processor, 4GB of RAM, 64GB of storage, and a 3,340mAh battery. There’s no USB-C, no waterproofing, no NFC, no wireless charging, and no Android Oreo — yet, anyway. (Honor is promising an update in 2018.)
Honor hasn’t revealed a price or release date for the 7X yet, but more details on both should be coming at an event on December 5th.


The Justice Department today filed suit to block the proposed merger between AT&T and Time Warner. The news, reported first by Bloomberg and later in subsequent reports from Reuters and Politico, is a drastic heightening of tensions between the DOJ and AT&T over what would be one of the largest media and telecommunications combinations in history.
Until today, only secondhand accounts from the inner workings of the merger approval process suggested the DOJ may not approve the deal, with the shadow of President Donald Trump hanging over the situation due to his personal feud with Time Warner-owned CNN. Now, however, the DOJ has officially laid out its argument for moving to block the merger, saying the combination of AT&T’s distribution networks and Time Warner’s news and entertainment products would harm competition.
“AT&T / DirecTV would hinder its rivals by forcing them to pay hundreds of millions of dollars more per year for Time Warner’s networks, and it would use its increased power to slow the industry’s transition to new and exciting video distribution models that provide greater choice for consumers,” reads the DOJ’s complaint. “The proposed merger would result in fewer innovative offerings and higher bills for American families.”
In a hastily put together press conference, AT&T’s executive leadership gathered in New York to harshly rebuke the DOJ lawsuit and defend the merits and legality of the merger. AT&T CEO Randall Stevenson said the lawsuit “‘stretches the very reach of antitrust law beyond the breaking point,” but he suggested that the company would look for a way forward, saying “as we head to court we will continue to offer solutions that allows this transaction to close.” Stevenson said selling CNN is off the table, however.
“The DOJ has to prove that this merger will harm competition, that this merger will harm consumers. It’s a burden that they have not met in a half a century and it’s one that they cannot and will not meet here,” said high-profile media lawyer Daniel Petrocelli, who sat next to Stevenson at the press conference and who AT&T hired to help it defend the merger.
“Under basic principals of law and economics, combining these two non-competing companies should pose no problem. The TV bill will not go up, and the combined company will not keep CNN, TNT, HBO or any other network to itself. Simply put, the theories in the DOJ’s complaint filed about an hour ago simply have no proof and make no sense in the real business world. We are confident that the law and facts will prevail and that this merger will be allowed to proceed.”
First proposed in October of 2016, the $85 billion merger proposal has drawn criticism as a dangerous consolidation of the media industry, with The Verge’s own Walt Mossberg calling it “an unhealthy concentration of power between a distributor and a maker of content.” FCC chairman Ajit Pai publicly declined to review the merger earlier this year, leaving the DOJ as the only agency positioned to review the public impact of the proposed deal.
Combining the two companies would be particularly powerful because of the still-uncertain rules around streaming video to mobile devices. Streaming video represents a lucrative opportunity for digital media companies, but the associated data charges can be expensive for consumers.
Carriers have responded with a string of zero-rated services that exempt certain video apps from data charges. That saves money for customers, but raises significant net neutrality concerns over which apps can benefit from the program. With the FCC currently rolling back the Open Internet Order, there would be few restrictions against favoring specific apps, giving a huge advantage to any video services aligned with the new conglomerate.
Recent reports have also raised concerns that Trump may have inappropriately influenced the Justice Department’s review. As part of negotiations, the Justice Department proposed a sell-off of some of Time Warner’s media holdings, which include CNN, TBS, and Cartoon Network. Some reports indicated that CNN was specifically targeted for divestment, which raised concerns given President Trump’s frequent and often unhinged criticism of the network.
As it stands, there is no proof Trump had any influence on the DOJ’s decision. “If there’s any proof there, I’m sure it will emerge and it probably won’t bode well for the government if it does,” Petrocelli said, responding to a question bout the White House’s role in the merger talks. “But we’re not dependent on that at all.”
Stevenson, in addressing the rumors swirling around Trump and CNN, had a lengthier and more definitive statement:
There’s been a lot of reporting and speculation of whether this is all about CNN — and frankly, I don’t know. But nobody should be surprised that the question keeps coming up because we’ve witnessed such an abrupt change in the application of antitrust law here. The bottom line is we cannot and we will not be party to any agreement that would even give the perception of compromising the First Amendment protections of the press. Any agreement that results in us forfeiting control of CNN, whether directly or indirectly, is a nonstarter. We believe quite strongly that any divestiture of AT&T assets or Time Warner assets is not required by the law, and we have no intention of backing down from the government’s lawsuit. We are in this to win, and absent a viable compromise that doesn’t violate our principals, we expect to do just that.
USA v ATT by Nick Statt on Scribd

Update at 4:50PM ET, 11/20: Added statement from AT&T.
Update at 5:47PM ET, 11/20: Added confirmation of DOJ lawsuit and quotes from its complaint.
Update at 5:59PM ET, 11/20: Added quotes from AT&T’s live press conference.


Astronomers have confirmed that an object that recently passed by our planet is from outside our Solar System — the first interstellar asteroid that’s ever been observed. And it doesn’t look like any object we’ve ever seen in our cosmic neighborhood before.
Follow-up observations, detailed today in Nature, have found that the asteroid is dark and reddish, similar to the objects in the outer Solar System. It doesn’t have any gas or dust surrounding it, like comets do, and it’s stretched long and skinny, looking a bit like an oddly shaped pen. It’s thought to be about a quarter-mile long, and about 10 times longer than it is wide. That makes it unlike any asteroids seen in our Solar System, none of which are so elongated.
Astronomers also think this object — nicknamed `Oumuamua, Hawaiian for “a messenger from afar arriving first”— traveled for millions of years before stumbling upon our Solar System. It seems to have come from the direction of the constellation Lyra, but the asteroid’s exact origin is still unknown. More answers might come soon, as NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope is observing `Oumuamua this week. “Our plan is to look at it through the end of the year, so we can get the very best pass possible and figure out where it came from,” Karen Meech, lead author of the study at the University of Hawaii’s Institute of Astronomy, tells The Verge.
`Oumuamua was first spotted on October 19th by astronomers working on the Pan STARRS telescope in Hawaii. The telescope is used to scan the sky for objects orbiting near Earth, looking for any that might pose a threat to our planet. But one of the rocks in the latest observations looked as if it might not belong in our neck of the Universe.
The team at Pan STARRS continued observing the object over the next couple of days. Based on their measurements, they were fairly certain that they were watching the first ever interstellar asteroid. Up until then, such a distant visitor had never been seen before, so observatories all over the world started following the object, too, in order to calculate its path and figure out its shape.
Interstellar asteroids are thought to be rejects from other planetary systems. When our Solar System first formed, for instance, the giant planets tossed around all the smaller bits of material circulating around the Sun, some of which landed in the outer edges of the Solar System while others were ejected from our neighborhood completely. These outcasts then traveled through interstellar space, possibly passing by other stars. Conceivably, ejected material from other planetary systems must make their way to our Solar System once in a while, says Meech.
Such interstellar objects are thought to pass through our Solar System pretty frequently, but they’re usually moving too fast, and they’re usually too faint to see. With `Oumuamua, astronomers got lucky: the asteroid entered our Solar System at an angle, coming in close by the Sun, and then passed by Earth on its way out of the Solar System. That gave astronomers the chance to catch it with ground-based telescopes. “I think it’s really neat that we had this visitor, however briefly, and we had a chance to look at it up close,” says Meech.
After it was first spotted, dozens of observatories all over the world continued to follow it over the next week and a half. Speed was crucial, since `Oumuamua is getting progressively farther away and growing fainter every day. “We had about a window of 10 days or two weeks to do anything practical,” says Meech. Through those quick observations, astronomers found that `Oumuamua had large fluctuations in brightness, indicating an unusually elongated, spinning object that makes one complete rotation every 7.3 hours.
Now, `Oumuamua is 124 million miles from Earth, zooming away at 85,700 miles per hour. It passed by Mars’ orbit on November 1st, and will reach Jupiter’s orbit sometime in 2018. Soon, it’ll be too hard to track, even with Hubble. “It’s really getting much too faint to do anything at all,” says Meech.
But in the next few years, we may be able to spot more interstellar objects like `Oumuamua. Once bigger telescopes start to come online, like the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope that’s being built in Chile, astronomers will be able to see even more visiting rocks. “I predict there will be a lot of these detected in the future,” says Meech.






The Walking Dead is back, and for us here at The Verge that’s an opportunity to examine just how effective the show can be in creating a complex villain. As played by Jeffrey Dean Morgan, big bad Negan has always been violent. But thanks to his man-baby antics, he’s stubbornly remained a comic book thug, never becoming the nuanced character the show so sorely needs.
Each week, I’ll be analyzing the show through its presentation of Negan: how he acts, how he delivers his jokes and threats, and most importantly, how his character develops in contrast to our supposedly-virtuous heroes. We’ll look at all the traits a villain is supposed to excel at, including those we detest, and boil it down into one single score on what we are calling the Negan-o-meter™. A score of 10 means he’s the best, most complex villain we’ve ever seen; a score of 0 means he’s pretty much the same ol’ Negan he’s always been.
Warning: There will be spoilers.
The current season of The Walking Dead has been an exercise in frustration. Halfway through the first set of episodes, its defining characteristic has been how it’s utterly ignored one of the only two characters the show has promised to focus on. Save for a few minutes in the season premiere, big-bad boogeyman Negan has been completely off the radar, leaving audiences to impatiently wonder what’s been going on since we last saw him and Father Gabriel trapped in a trailer, surrounded by zombies. In “The Big Bad U” that drought finally comes to end, picking up the unlikely pair’s storyline, while also flipping the script to show the season-opening attack from the point of view of the Saviors.
It’s a refreshing change of pace, and not just because it shifts the focus away from the protagonists after three straight episodes. With Negan’s return, The Walking Dead has the opportunity to demonstrate that it can make its villain more than just a mustache-twirling cartoon. Pleasantly, the writers actually deliver, making for one of the best episodes the show has produced in quite some time.
“The Big Bad U” opens just moments before the events of the season 8 premiere, as Negan and his lieutenants grill the Hilltop’s leader, Gregory. The flashback reveals that Gregory’s attempt to get his community to abandon Rick, Maggie, and the others was a sort of peace offering to Negan and the Saviors — though we know from previous episodes that the effort was ultimately futile. But when Negan’s lieutenant Simon suggests that if the Hilltop doesn’t fall in line the Saviors can simply wipe the community out, Negan slams his trusty bat against a metal table. “People are the foundation of what we’re building here,” he shouts, silencing the room.
It’s a moment for actor Jeffrey Dean Morgan to show off Negan’s more authoritative side without relying an over-the-top display of violence. Typically, Negan switches gears between locker room banter and excessive brutality, leaving little room for nuance. But the conversation shows exactly why Negan is exalted by his people: he has a strategic mind, and understands that winning people over is a smarter tactic that simply eliminating all who disagree. The point’s underscored when Negan lays out why publicly executing Rick, Maggie, and Ezekiel is a core part of his plan. “We kill the right people in the wrongest way possible, and we make them all watch,” he says.
Negan clearly has a psychopathic streak, but he also doesn’t resort to all-out violence at every opportunity, which makes him more dangerous than your standard authoritarian brute. Before they can continue strategizing, however, the sounds of Rick’s rifle ring out. From the season premiere, we know things didn’t turn out so well.
Up until now, Negan has been portrayed as a stubbornly opaque and shallow villain, characterized by his violence, the baseball bat he commits it with, and the fact that he runs a racketeering operation like a pre-apocalypse mob boss. Little time has been spent on why he acts the way he does and what drives him. We’ve seen a few flashes of his humanity, like the moment last season when he tried to impart some wisdom upon a murderous Carl. But viewers shouldn’t be blamed for assuming that Negan would immediately bash Father Gabriel’s head in when he finds himself trapped in a trailer with the priest.
What we get instead is a far more fascinating scene, one that digs into Negan’s character and humanizes him in a way no previous scene has accomplished. Though Negan immediately relieves Gabriel of his weapon, the two nevertheless have an instructive back and forth, with Gabriel convinced he has to take Negan’s confession. Perhaps seeing some strategic utility in having Gabriel as a hostage, Negan earns the man’s trust by opening up. We learn that Negan used to work with children, and that Lucille may actually be the name of his wife, that he lost to cancer. He let her turn into a walker in the earliest days of the outbreak, Negan says, because he couldn’t bring himself to lay her to rest himself.
Even after Gabriel tries to pull a firearm on Negan, the leader of Saviors still refuses to get violent, illustrating that he’s willing to go to great lengths to prove that he’s capable of pragmatism and mercy. Negan’s worldview and leadership style may be atrocious, but his ability to manipulate people is incredibly effective, and the scene culminates with the two drenching themselves in zombie guts and battling their way together to the Sanctuary.
While The Walking Dead has been more blunt with its moralizing with the Jesus and Morgan storyline, it takes a more subtle approach to the widening rift between Daryl and Rick. The two men have begun to take different paths in recent episodes, with Daryl on a merciless, take-no-prisoners rampage, and Rick dialing back the aggression. The philosophical difference results in blows when Daryl suggests using explosives to blow a hole in the Sanctuary to let zombies finish the job of wiping out the Saviors. Rick says killing innocent families and nonviolent workers isn’t part of the plan, echoing Jesus’ plea to Morgan that what separates them from the morally reprehensible is a willingness to spare bloodshed when given the opportunity.
Although it’s largely inconsequential — the two men struggle for a bit before Rick tosses the explosives into the flaming truck, rendering the conversation moot — it speaks to a greater rift among the coalition of communities fighting Negan. It would be a lot easier just to execute every enemy and use scorched Earth tactics to ensure they’re annihilated for good. But The Walking Dead has never really been a story about antiheroes. It flirts with the sins and moral descents of its main characters, but it always brings them back from the brink. Even if it’s more of an undercurrent rather than the main event, the show is ultimately about finding hope and the drive to regain some sense of normalcy. For Rick, that idea would now seem to be what differentiates him from Daryl, and the dynamic will almost certainly affect the two men’s character arcs as the season begins winding toward its conclusion.
While Negan and Gabriel are fighting their way back to Sanctuary, the Saviors are arguing over who to blame — and what to do if Negan is actually dead. Everyone is pointing fingers at someone else, with the existence of a traitor now fully acknowledged by all parties. The scene portrays the Saviors’ leadership as a roundtable of inadequate politicians, each suffering from a critical character flaw. Eugene is smart, but cowardly and awkward. Dwight is no-bullshit, but the others see him as a weak yes-man. Simon is domineering and animated — just like Negan — but always thinks violence is the answer.
When the lower-class workers storm in, demanding a solution to the predicament, the lieutenants crumble from infighting and indecision. Only when Negan shows up, with Gabriel in tow, does the entire situation calm down. As the workers each bend the knee to Negan, audibly thanking him for showing up to rescue them, Father Gabriel gets a firsthand look at the loyalty Negan’s mix of charisma and cruelty has instilled in his people. Dumbstruck by the Saviors’ faith to their leader, Gabriel allows himself to be peacefully hauled away to a cell while Negan tells the Saviors to put their trust in him.
Power: We saw Negan’s intimidating physicality in action in a variety of different scenarios in this episode, from his disarming of Gabriel in the trailer to his impressive zombie-fighting skills outside the Sanctuary. In one comical scene, Negan punches the priest squarely in the face for having pulled a gun on him earlier in the episode. The fact that Gabriel takes the hit, and even agrees to help Negan immediately thereafter, is yet another demonstration of his ability to assume control in almost any situation.
Charisma: From the moment Negan and Father Gabriel’s conversation turns toward their personal lives and sins, it’s clear that the priest is out of his depth. Negan manages to convince Gabriel that there’s more to his leadership style and worldview than meets the eye — neatly echoing the conversation Ezekiel had with Carol a few episodes back — and he even opens up about painful memories from his past. The throughline is Negan’s ever-present charisma, enabling him to earn the priest’s respect, as well as his assistance in breaking through the zombie horde.
Leadership: It may be easy to write off the devotion of the Saviors to Negan’s temperamental rule, but in this episode it becomes clear he’s actually quite good at reassuring his people that he knows best, and that he alone can solve any problem at hand. It lends a new meaning to the Saviors’ name and their narrative. People may fight when motivated by fear, but they’ll fight even harder when motivated by true belief, and throughout the episode it’s evident just how firm a grip Negan’s leadership skills have given him on the people that look up to him.
Final Takeaway: This was perhaps the best collection of Negan scenes since the character’s introduction, and for the first time this season I actually found myself hopeful. This is the kind of deeper dive that will make Negan truly compelling, and after weeks of no-shows it suggests that The Walking Dead can turn its “All Out War” saga into a more fascinating character study with protagonists, and villains, worth caring about.
Negan-o-meter™: 7 out of 10
If there was a moment fans have been waiting for this season, last night’s episode was it. The Walking Dead brought Negan back, and put him in a spotlight that he actually earned for once. Not only did we see many different sides to him, but we got our first morsel of backstory, something the character has desperately needed since his introduction roughly 18 months ago.
Moving forward, the recipe for keeping the show watchable should be simple: feature more episodes like “The Big Scary U” that actually portray Negan as a villain worth the endless push-and-pull. If the show really wants to get ambitious, it could even offer a flashback scene showing Negan pre-apocalypse, something that would go a long way toward rounding out his character. The actions of a hero like Rick Grimes are only as good as the villain he’s going up against, and the show needs to keep Negan in the mix every episode to keep that essential tension alive. Anything less will simply undercut the entire season, whether it’s the ballyhooed conflict at its core, or the broader themes about the bad things that good people will do in the name of survival.




The Sonos One may have only come out a few weeks ago, but Sonos is already putting its latest speaker on sale for $25 off, bringing the price down to $175 on Sonos’ website.
The Sonos One is Sonos’ first speaker with integrated smart assistants (Alexa for now, but Google Assistant support is promised for 2018), and this discount is the first time Sonos has offered a price cut on it. Given how rare Sonos hardware sales are, the fact that the company is offering any sort of discount this early in the product’s life cycle is pretty unusual.
Along with the Sonos One, there are also a bunch of sales on other members of the Sonos lineup, too, which are definitely worth taking a look at if you’re interested in building out your Sonos setup.
These deals go live on November 23rd at midnight local time in the US and Canada. The deals on the Sonos One, Playbase, and Playbar will run through November 27th, while the Play:1 and Play:3 deals are set to run “all season” while supplies last.


KFC has launched lots of gadgets in the past, and we've routinely covered them. But this past week, the fried chicken company introduced a different kind of gadget: a massive Faraday cage. The Internet Escape Pod, as KFC calls it, features a drumstick-shaped door handle with a massive Colonel Sanders atop it. The dome is constructed out of steel and stainless steel mesh, a high-density foam, and enamel paint. It weighs eight pounds. Only one model exists, however, so if you want it, you have to pay $10,000.
How badly do you need to escape from the internet? Could you just put your phone in a box under your bed and walk away, or do you need a $10,000 KFC-branded tent with a chicken leg for a handle? I'm not going to judge you for maybe wanting this, but yeah, I think you can probably cut yourself off from the internet for free.


iRobot has been continuously adding ways to make Roomba a more necessary part of connected homes since introducing the Roomba 980, its first Wi-Fi-connected model in 2015. Now, it’s introduced IFTTT functionality, adding 11 applets to further automate Roomba’s work around your home, as spotted by TechCrunch.
The functions range from actually practical to why. As of now, the most popular ones are the most practical, like “When I answer a call, pause Roomba,” and “When I leave home, start a cleaning job.” Unsurprisingly, no one as of yet has chosen to add “Post a Tweet when Roomba finishes a cleaning job.”
IFTTT — short for "if this, then that" — was created as a simple way to connect different internet services together for automated processes. For example, there are applets that let you tweet your Instagram photos as natively embedded images instead of an Instagram link, or automatically turn on your Hue lights at sunset. It’s a way to simplify and create one-button shortcuts for some of your most-used web interactions.
In the quest to make the cleaning robots as connected as possible, both Alexa and Google Home integration were added to Roomba earlier this year, and also came under some backlash when it was discovered that iRobot would consider sharing the maps that Roomba creates as it cleans around your home. The CEO later clarified that customers will retain complete control over if and how their data is shared.


Texas Rangers have served Apple with a search warrant for data from deceased Sutherland Springs gunman Devin Patrick Kelley, who killed 26 people in a Texas church earlier this month.
The San Antonio Express-News reports that the warrant covers files stored in Kelley’s iCloud account, with law enforcement apparently seeking phone call and message information, photos and videos, and other data dating back to January 1st, 2016. Another warrant allows law enforcement to look for this data independently on an iPhone SE found near Kelley’s body. (A separate warrant covers data on a second device, which court records identify as an LG feature phone.) The warrants were obtained on November 9th, two days after the FBI complained that encryption had prevented it from accessing the shooter’s phone.
Apple’s policies state that it will share iCloud data with law enforcement agencies if there’s a valid warrant. Depending on how frequently Kelley created backups using iCloud, there may be additional information on the phone itself, but Apple has refused past requests to directly access devices — the company went to court last year to avoid unlocking a phone belonging to San Bernardino shooter Syed Farook, until the FBI successfully hacked the phone without its help, rendering the case moot.
The FBI has used the Sutherland Springs shooting to argue that strong encryption is hurting law enforcement’s ability to investigate crimes, saying it was “working very hard to get into the phone.” Later reports indicated that it did not reach out to Apple within a 48-hour period during which Kelley’s fingerprint might have unlocked the phone via Touch ID.
Apple declined to comment on pending law enforcement matters, including whether it had provided iCloud data to the Texas Rangers. However, a spokesperson said that the company had not received any law enforcement agency request for technical help (like unlocking) related to Kelley’s phone.
Update 2:30PM ET: A person familiar with the matter has clarified that Apple received only a warrant for iCloud content, not iCloud and iPhone data. A more general warrant was issued separately to allow law enforcement to access the phone.


This past weekend, Justice League finally landed in theaters. The movie was meant to be Warner Bros.’ answer to The Avengers; the crowning achievement of the DC Extended Universe. But those plans hit some speed bumps along the way. Batman v. Superman wasn’t the level of hit the studio was hoping for, and Suicide Squad was disastrous on a critical and financial level. Wonder Woman director Patty Jenkins did deliver the kind of cultural-zeitgeist blockbuster the studio was looking for, but she did it by ditching the style, tone, and storyline the previous DC films had all been built upon. Then, in perhaps the most drastic blow of all, Justice League director Zack Snyder stepped down earlier this year for personal reasons, leaving Joss Whedon in charge of reshoots and finishing the film.
Now that audiences have finally seen the DC superheroes team up, we’re going to sit down and chat about the good, the bad, and the lovingly-photographed-in-impossibly-slow-motion of Justice League.
Fair warning: this is a no-holds-barred, all-spoilers-allowed conversation. The spoiler-conscious review is here.
Bryan: Going into this film, I had a lot of questions. Would the movie make amends for the incredibly frustrating Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice? Would seeing these characters on-screen together make up for the haphazard, forced way Warner Bros. and DC tried to reverse-engineer this team-up? Would Snyder’s absence be felt, for better or worse? And perhaps most importantly of all, how would it leave me feeling at the end? Would I be excited for more adventures of the Justice League, or would I be eager for a world of standalone DC movies that didn’t bother with establishing links in the first place?
Tasha: Those are good questions. Mine were mostly whether the film would squander all the good will Wonder Woman brought on, by dropping the humor and humanity that movie brought into the DCEU. And then there’s the question Thor: Ragnarok raises, the question I ask every time a new Marvel movie out-performs a DC film at the box office: Has DC finally learned something about why Marvel movies get so much praise?
Bryan: Justice League answered my last question clearly: bring on the standalone movies as soon as possible, please, and make them star Ezra Miller’s The Flash. I have a feeling it’s going to be fashionable to both hate this movie, and to talk about how fun it is in contrast to the last few Snyder films. (And it is that.) But I don’t think I’ve been this uninvested and flat-out bored in a theater since, well, Suicide Squad. Justice League is funny at times — but set within a story that clearly wants to be drenched in darkness. It leans heavily on characters we’ve never met in this incarnation, and it expects us to know, love, and understand them. Those we do know say things that give the impression they’ll eventually go on some sort of emotional journey, but that never fully manifests. I even found the film visually inconsistent, with certain sequences exhibiting the kind of glossy, stylistic sheen Snyder has built his career on, while others look like they were shot as part of a TV show. Justice League really was like The Avengers of DC’s cinematic world — it just decided to amp up all the weaknesses rather than the strengths.
Tasha: There’s a lot to unpack in that response, but let’s start with the characters’ unfamiliarity. I had a much more positive reaction to this film than you did, and maybe that’s because I don’t consider these characters unfamiliar. Yes, Batman v. Superman only gave us a quick hint about Ezra Miller’s Flash, in a sort of dream-sequence-slash-future-warning that doesn’t pay off at all in Justice League. And this is our first introduction to the DC cinematic world’s Aquaman (Jason Momoa) and Cyborg (Ray Fisher). But I know these characters from so many other DC iterations, and I’m so tired of origin stories. I am perfectly fine with blitzing past Aquaman’s tragic history as an abandoned child of Atlantis, in a quickie speech, then moving on. I enjoyed the Flash/Cyborg “So, you were struck by lightning?” conversation, which is ludicrous, incredibly Joss Whedon-y, and about as much as I need to hear about Flash’s origin story this time around. Yes, it feels like DC jumped the gun by trying to get to The Avengers without setting up these characters with their own films first. But there have been so many superhero movies about origins and angst and the tragic loneliness of power. Did you really want to go through all that again? Don’t we already know enough about these characters to understand the stakes in a movie that’s mostly about them fighting an angry CGI effect to get their hands on some glowing CGI hoobajoobs?
Bryan: I don’t need elaborate origin stories by any means — I think we’re all tired of that. What I do require, just for baseline emotional investment, is characters with a point of view, an emotional journey, and a simple reason for existing beyond a studio executive wanting them all on a poster. And that’s where Justice League fails, while almost all the Marvel movies succeed. Aquaman is literally just a DothrakiBro. In one (admittedly hilarious) scene, he gets roped up by Wonder Woman’s lasso and tells the audience exactly who his character is, which would be amazing if it weren’t so lazy. And as somebody with no foreknowledge of Cyborg, I couldn’t find anything in the movie to latch onto. He’s dealing with the funk that comes with being turned into a half-robot creature by a maniac of a father, but it’s hard to care about that funk when I haven’t seen who he was before, and what he’s lost. It also makes his pseudo-arc ring totally hollow. He eventually becomes okay with his transformation, I guess? I can’t entirely tell. These are action figures, swapped in and out to deliver one-liners.
The exception is The Flash. I kept picturing Fran Kranz in this role, and he probably would have been, if this movie had been made 15 years ago. But the reason Miller’s character stands out is because he actually has a clearly articulated internal struggle over his imprisoned dad, and it pays off beyond Saving The World. I think those issues stood out for me so starkly because it seemed like they were trying to compensate for a larger story that just simply wasn’t there. This film begins and ends like it’s going to be about the impact of the death of Superman in Dawn of Justice, but aside from some thematic throwaway lines, I never felt like it dealt with this topic. How did you feel about the movie’s handling of the Man of Steel?
Tasha: Least favorite thing about a movie I otherwise largely enjoyed. I think there’s an interesting, painful emotional resonance in “The world cannot survive without a Superman” themes, because we the audience have to survive in a world without a Superman. (Granted, we’re not dealing with periodic alien invasion.) But you’re right, this feels like the movie wants to address the impact of Superman’s death, and it doesn’t get very deeply into it. Among other things, I’m baffled as to why Superman’s death sets off Steppenwolf’s attack, since it seems like the world went thousands of years without a Superman (or any individual high-powered defender), and that didn’t trigger an invasion. That aside, there’s so much character-development potential in Batman’s journey from “There’s a remote chance of Superman going bad, so he must die” in Batman v. Superman to “We need Superman, so it’s worth the risk of resurrecting him as an unstoppable murder-machine” here. But the script blitzes past the weight of that decision, and the ridiculous resurrection process itself, to get to the big hero-on-hero fight where Superman battles the Justice League.
So that battle sequence… in isolation, it’s straight-up exciting. The frozen look of shock and terror on Flash’s face when he realizes Superman can track him at super-speed came pretty close to justifying that sequence for me. But it’s all so arbitrary and sloppy on a moment-to-moment basis, especially in terms of zombie-Superman’s mental capacity. Having Cyborg’s armor categorize him as a threat and attack him to set off the fight is an inane bit of contrivance. The “Well, we’ll just fight him to make him stop fighting!” sequence that follows makes everyone involved look dumb. I thought maybe the fight made sense if Superman had no memories and was reacting on an animal basis, but then we find out that he does remember who he is, and can think and talk, but still decides to kill everyone — because why? Because they stole his shirt? Stupider reasons have been kludged together to make superheroes fight each other, but it never gets easier to watch our supposed role models, the best of the best, doing imbecilic things, not even because the plot demands it (since this entire fight could be excised without any impact whatsoever on the story), but because fandom loves watching hero-on-hero battles. It’s good that it’s over with now and Superman’s back in the mix, but I wish the entire resurrection plan could have been saved for the next film, and given some serious thought and attention. Packing so many storylines into this one means not giving any of them full attention or worthwhile service.
Bryan: Couldn’t agree more. As a general rule, the DC films have had a problem of trying to cram in too much story — though the two-hour running time of this movie was certainly a blessing when compared to Snyder’s last couple of films. But the bizarre treatment of Superman is what made me wonder where the line is between the movie Snyder wanted to make, and the one Whedon reshot and finished. The easiest tell for “reshoot or original” is Superman’s face. Henry Cavill grew a mustache for another movie when it came time for the two months of Justice League reshoots, and the movie had to digitally remove his facial hair to solve the problem. I found the results… problematic. As in, there seemed to be only two scenes in the entire film where I wasn’t wondering what was wrong with Superman’s face.
Tasha: I honestly didn’t notice it! I know that’s weird to you, but everyone in this movie already looks like an inhuman special effect to me, between Momoa and Cavill’s immense bulging muscles and negative-12 percent body fat, and Miller and Gadot’s glass-cut cheekbones, and Cyborg being 90 percent costume. I really did not register Cavill’s face looking odd and inhuman, because to me, his normal face already looks like a video game model!
Bryan: Well, I couldn’t stop noticing it. And for me, that was a continual reminder of how confused the movie is. And perhaps more importantly, how the finished product doesn’t mesh with everything that came before it. I actually wound up reminiscing about the coherence and thematic throughlines of Man of Steel and Dawn of Justice. Which really says something about Justice League, because neither of those two films were coherent in the slightest.
Tasha: …okay, you’re definitely going to need to justify that claim for me. To me, Man of Steel was a grimdark mess about how maybe Earth is too judgmental or inherently evil for heroes, but it needs them anyway — hence leaning extra-hard on the Christ imagery, except for the part where our Jesus-substitute destroys a city full of people because he can’t figure out that taking the fight to space would save lives. And Dawn of Justice turns Batman into a torturer and would-be cold-blooded killer and has both Superman and Batman acting like sulky children defending their chunk of playground. One of Justice League’s greatest achievements was getting away from the badly handled, muddied existential questions of What Heroism Means and just getting to some swagger and action. It’s a much more coherent film for me, because there’s only one villain (post-credits scene aside) and it’s a simple fight with simple stakes, instead of a film about Questioning The Darkness Inside All Of Us in a clunky way. What are you recalling in those films that makes them better than Justice League for you?
Bryan: It’s simply a matter of intent, and the Whedon-Snyder Justice League has none. As clunky as Man of Steel’s Christ imagery was, and as forced as the Batman v. Superman “Martha” reveal came off, those films dealt with specific ideas, building toward a specific conclusion. Snyder was interested in humanity’s need for savior figures, and how that instinct could be exploited, and ultimately undone, by our own fears of “the other.” Justice League appeared poised to deliver on that with a true redemption arc: Superman is killed saving humanity from Doomsday, only to rise again. Clunky as hell, yes, but a resolution that would nevertheless have tied the three films together. (The fact that dirt began to vibrate off Clark Kent’s coffin at the end of Dawn of Justice even suggested a self-resurrection was in the cards.) Instead, as you say, we get a resurrection that makes no sense, and a movie that seems to throw things together simply because fandom likes watching heroes fight.
I know we’re talking about the most popcorn of popcorn movies, but audiences deserve better. I’ll take an overlong, pretentious movie that is at least trying to have a point over one that’s simply trying to check boxes and get through two hours without making anybody too upset. That’s how this movie landed for me: Whedon added some quirky laughs to a movie that was stripped of its reason for existing. It feels like a movie designed to prevent fans from getting too upset, all so Warner Bros. and DC can step in with their new game plan because they decided the DC expanded universe was dead long before they publicly admitted it.
Tasha: In my reading, Justice League is fundamentally about individuals getting over themselves and choosing to act collectively. Aquaman wants to be left alone with the small causes he’s chosen, and is secretly afraid he doesn’t belong anywhere. (Why don’t the parademons react to that fear?) Flash is inexperienced and terrified of all the threats he’s never faced before. (Why don’t the parademons react to that fear?) Cyborg is afraid he’s losing his humanity, his mind, and control over his body. (Blah blah parademons fear… which I wouldn’t bring up, except they’re so hypersensitive to Steppenwolf’s first flicker of insecurity at the end. Maybe his fear tastes better?) As Batman points out, Wonder Woman is still in mourning for Steve Trevor, and has chosen to withdraw from leadership because she doesn’t want to inspire people to their deaths. (That’s a little clunky, but I’m glad they at least tried to explain her disappearance from the world post World War I.)
And Batman isn’t afraid, but he’s certainly conscious that he’s mortal and fragile, compared to all these super-people casually getting thrown through walls and floors. For me, this wasn’t the origin story of any one hero, it was the origin story of a team, and the connecting thread is the way they all have to face their own tendencies to withdraw and hide, and find something bigger and brighter than themselves in the idea of cooperation and friendship. I would have been fine without Superman in this movie, because if those past Superman movies are about humanity’s savior complex, Justice League is about stepping up and accepting the responsibility of power, which he’s already done to a degree the rest of them haven’t. That’s a much more Whedon-y theme, and one I find a lot more interesting.
Bryan: I wish the movie had worked as well for me as it did for you, because it sounds like you had a much better time in the theater. But even then, things aren’t all bad. Gal Gadot comes out of the movie unscathed, and the punch she lands on Batman after he taunts her about Steve Trevor is one of the more satisfying one-off moments of the movie. While Affleck’s new jokester Batman felt all over the place for me tonally, I still find him surprisingly solid in the role. He’s no Christian Bale (or Michael Keaton, for that matter), but his kind of generic, leading-man energy fits in perfectly for the kind of movie this is. And while I’ve mentioned him a couple of times already, I really do need to highlight Ezra Miller’s performance as The Flash once again. The riffing, the stammering; the awkward, I’d-rather-not-be-here energy… for me, he was the highlight of the film, and the best example of Whedon’s sensibilities fitting into the larger film, rather than clashing with it. He’s one of several new characters sharing the spotlight, though — which one did you respond to the most?
Tasha: Cyborg, honestly. Part of that is because of all the DC characters questioning why they have to be heroes, he seems to have the most reason. There’s some deeply flawed logic in the baseline of this story, and the way they all come together, and Cyborg is the most obvious example: Lex Luthor identified as a possible exploitable asset based entirely on a fragmentary shot of him screaming and limbless in a lab? But I enjoyed Fisher’s intense, pained performance, and the character’s design. And as crudely handled as his not-quite-an-arc is, I still thought it was pretty gratifying when he let himself enjoy his powers, instead of regarding them as threats to his humanity.
But I had a lot of emotional response to things in this movie that don’t seem to have touched you at all. I found the original battle against Steppenwolf surprisingly rousing, with its Green Lantern and Shazam cameos and its reminder of a lost mythic era of Earth. The Amazons’ valiant but doomed attempt to keep the first Mother Box out of Steppenwolf’s hands was an impressive piece of action that respected the power of the warriors we learned to respect in Wonder Woman. Ezra Miller didn’t do much for me — from his familial angst to his “Yay, I’m joining a team!” giddiness to his nervousness and effectiveness in battle, he reminded me way too much of Tom Holland in Captain America: Civil War and Spider-Man: Homecoming. And his “I’m afraid of everything that’s part of this battle!” speech was way too Xander-comedy to work for me in this setting. But I love how effectively and efficiently Batman has his number, with the “Save one person” order that gets Flash in the game and lets him see that he can save everyone, and be proud of himself doing it. For that matter, I wound up liking this Batman so much more than the grim-n-grunty hater who, let us never forget, burns bat-symbols into criminals’ flesh in Batman v. Superman, because Zack Snyder is a grinning sadist. This Batman is human, and he knows it. He faces likely death every time he goes into battle with all these supers, and he doesn’t make a big deal about it, but the awareness is clear and palpable.
Finally, I’m glad to see these superheroes focusing so much on saving civilians’ lives. All this cinematic superhero hoo-rah is finally acknowledging that being a hero means caring about individual lives and saving people on an individual level, not just punching world-destruction-engines to death. Did none of that touch or impress you? Did nothing in Justice League thrill you, even on an atavistic level?
Bryan: It didn’t impress me, actually, and it’s undoubtedly why I found the movie so tedious. There are moments that certainly played (the Godot Bat-punch, the slow-mo Flash sequences, Aquaman’s truth-lasso confession), and I enjoyed some individual performance beats. But from the very first shot, when Superman shows up in some smartphone footage with that godawful weird CG mouth they put on him, the film seems dedicated to showing us all its ugly seams. The tonal shifts, the visual changes, the random cutaways to that nameless family,  the odd way the bookends seemed designed for a totally different film (and probably were); it played so poorly for me that at times I actually felt like I was watching a comedy about a botched superhero movie rather than a superhero movie. Not quite to the degree where I’m willing to call it Plan 9 From Krypton or Tommy Wiseau’s The Justice League, but it comes awfully close.
But I keep thinking back to what you said earlier in our conversation: that a lot of these characters and situations played much better for you because you came in with a level of emotional investment that I lacked. I think there’s something to be said for looking at this movie through the lens of its intended audience. I have no pre-existing feelings about Green Lantern, so that cameo just played like Warner Bros. and DC once again trying to hard-sell me on the idea of an expanded universe without really earning it. But for a different viewer, that could be a moment of delight. Snyder’s films — and I’m not really considering this Snyder’s film, no matter what credits the DGA doled out — have always agitated fans. The darkness and tone never seemed to complement the characters he was tasked with bringing to the big screen. Justice League, however, seems to go in the opposite direction. I criticized it earlier for being neutered in the name of not making DC fans any angrier — but for the DC fans out there who are frustrated, that might actually be a good thing. Despite my own problems, I can definitely see why this could be the most satisfying DC movie for audiences in quite some time — other than Wonder Woman, that is. How long do we have to wait for that sequel again?


Uber will buy up to 24,000 XC90 SVUs from Volvo to form a fleet of driverless vehicles, reports Bloomberg. The XC90s, which start at $45,750, will be delivered between 2019 and 2021. The base vehicles feature core autonomous driving technologies that will enable Uber to add its own automation features as well, Volvo says. “This new agreement puts us on a path towards mass produced self-driving vehicles at scale,” Jeff Miller, head of auto alliances at Uber said in a statement.
Volvo said engineers from both companies developed the XC90 premium SUVs supplied to Uber. Uber has been spotted testing its self-driving Volvo XC90 SUVs before in Pittsburgh, and the company has had a strategic partnership with Volvo since August 2016. Uber also has a small fleet of self-driving Ford Fusions.
Volvo is also planning to release it own first fully autonomous car in 2021, and will also use the same base model vehicle in development. “The automotive industry is being disrupted by technology and Volvo Cars chooses to be an active part of that disruption,” said Håkan Samuelsson, president and chief executive of Volvo in a statement. “Our aim is to be the supplier of choice for AD ride-sharing service providers globally.”
Uber has suffered through a number of issues in developing its automated cars. The company’s self-driving cars in Arizona got into a pretty serious crash in March this year. The company also launched a self-driving Uber service in San Francisco in December 2016, but that got yanked shortly after because the company failed to properly register its fleet of 16 vehicles. Emails showed that Uber dismissed warnings about that self-driving test for months. To add more pain, Waymo, Google’s self-driving car company, is suing Uber for allegedly stealing the underlying technology for its vehicles, and that case is about to head to trial. Waymo also became the first company to put a fully self-driving vehicle on US roads without a safety driver earlier this month, pipping Uber to the post.





There haven’t been many updates on Apple’s iMac Pro since it was first announced back at WWDC in June. However, over the weekend, news broke from the internet’s favorite Apple firmware gurus Steven Troughton-Smith and Guilherme Rambo that the upcoming pro desktop computer will feature an A10 Fusion coprocessor.
Based on the leaked code, which has been compiled and explained by Jonathan Levin, it seems the A10 Fusion chip will enable two interesting new features. The first is the ability for the iMac Pro to feature always-on “Hey, Siri” voice command support, similar to what’s currently available on more recent iPhone devices. The news seems all but confirmed: Rambo has posted a video of the feature working on a Mac.
Confirmed: "Hey, Siri" is coming to the Mac pic.twitter.com/Dw9bRAzbxD
But, as Pepijn Bruienne pointed out, the bigger implication of the A10 Fusion is for a less user-facing function, with Apple likely to use the coprocessor to enable SecureBoot on the iMac Pro. In more practical terms, it means that Apple will be using the A10 Fusion chip to handle the initial boot process and confirm that software checks out, before passing things off to the regular x86 Intel processor in your Mac.
It’s not something that will likely change how you use your computer too much, like the addition of “Hey, Siri” support will, but it’s a move toward Apple experimenting with an increased level of control over its software going forward.


Uber has added a few new features right before the holidays that should make getting a ride for you or a friend a bit easier. The ride-hailing service has added live location sharing, which will allow your driver to see your location once you tap the gray icon on the bottom right of the screen. This can be helpful when you’re walking to your pickup location so your driver isn’t left in the dark.
Beacons are also being expanded (now available in New York, Chicago, and San Francisco), helping you identify your ride in a sea of Ubers. The company has also updated its guest hailing feature, allowing you to hail rides for friends or family members and let them communicate with the driver via text, so you aren’t stuck in the middle. Simply tap “where to,” and you’ll be able to add a different rider at the top of the screen.
Finally, Uber has added in-app gifting, so you can send Uber credits to your friends without having to leave the app. It’s a nice way to tell that family member who’s ruining dinner it’s time to go. The new features are available today.


Last week, I visited the lava planet Mustafar, infiltrated an Imperial base as a stormtrooper, battled alongside the cantankerous droid K-2SO, and collected data on a piece of secret Imperial cargo that could have far-reaching ramifications for the fate of the galaxy. And I did it all without ever leaving a tiny warehouse in Glendale, California.
What I experienced was Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire, the much-anticipated collaboration between virtual reality park designers The Void and ILMxLAB, the immersive entertainment wing of Lucasfilm and Industrial Light & Magic. From the moment the companies announced they were working together on a Star Wars-based VR adventure, with locations opening in both California and Florida, expectations have been high. In projects like Ghostbusters: Dimension, The Void has demonstrated that its combination of free-roaming VR and physical mazes offer a unique form of entertainment, while xLAB has been breaking new emotional and narrative ground with pieces like Alejandro González Iñárritu’s museum installation Carne y Arena. And then there’s that whole Star Wars element — with Secrets of the Empire opening just as fans hit peak hype for Rian Johnson’s The Last Jedi.
Having gone through a prototype version of the experience in that Glendale warehouse, it’s clear that this experience does more than just deliver on those lofty expectations. For mainstream audiences, Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire may be the first time virtual reality actually delivers on the Holodeck-esque potential it’s been promising all along.
Secrets of the Empire starts with a briefing. Groups of up to four guests are shown a video from Rogue One’s Cassian Andor (Diego Luna). There’s a piece of Imperial cargo that’s been brought to the planet Mustafar, he says, and while he was originally going to retrieve it, he’s now under attack. It’s up to the group of guests to go undercover as stormtroopers and get the job done. From there, audience members suit up with a custom head-mounted display, lightweight backpack computer, and a haptic vest, and step into an adjoining room. Pull down the headset, and the real world melts away: where other participants were a moment ago, stormtroopers now stand.
The storyline is exactly what any Star Wars fan would hope for: the group of participants infiltrate the base, get into some skirmishes, and after a couple of lucky escapes (and a big surprise), make their way out having more or less accomplished the mission. But what The Void does well is create the illusion of truly being in a virtual world by pairing physical sets, props, and sensations with the VR visuals. Secrets of the Empire uses that combination to ground the experience right from the beginning. As I stepped into a transport, K-2SO (Alan Tudyk, also reprising his role) suggested I sit down on the ship’s bench — and sure enough, there was a physical bench waiting for me when I did. When I waved my hands in front of my face, there they were, clad in the white-and-black gloves of a stormtrooper. Moments later, when I stood on a skiff approaching the Imperial facility, I felt the heat from the lava below, while the smoky smell of Mustafar’s atmosphere filled my nostrils. Later, when engaged in a firefight with stormtroopers, I felt a sharp haptic buzz whenever I caught a stray blaster bolt — not painful, but not exactly pleasant, either.
There’s a tremendous amount of fun just in the pure discovery of the experience: the realization that I could chatter along with the people I was playing with (“I have a bad feeling about this”), or that there was a Han Solo-esque workaround to a puzzle that I couldn’t crack. But breaking it down into those kind of singular moments seems reductive, because more than anything else, Secrets of the Empire legitimately feels like starring in a Star Wars movie or TV show of your very own. Part of that is the length. From the briefing to the moment you remove the gear at the end, the experience runs roughly 30 minutes, so there’s some heft to it. Another component is the tactile reality that The Void creates, paired with the sense of independence that comes from being able to walk around a virtual location without any perceived restrictions or limitations. The Void uses design sleight of hand and misdirection to guide guests through relatively small physical spaces that feel massive and epic in the virtual world. It’s an illusion, but an incredibly effective one that creates a compelling sense of autonomy and agency.
But even that can only get you so far. Star Wars is a universe that’s ultimately defined by that kinds of stories it tells. And whether I was quickly ducking into a blasted-open passageway, furiously trading blaster fire with a group of stormtroopers above me, or facing what seemed like certain doom at the climax of the piece, Secrets of the Empire nailed the feeling of being inside the universe completely.
“The important thing was, how can I bring a real person into the Star Wars universe and have them be a part of the story, but also be able to make their own kind of story within ours,” Lucasfilm Story Group executive and xLAB content strategist Diana Williams tells me. The events of Secrets of the Empire are canon in the larger universe, and while the narrative is fixed, it’s the nature of the medium that every individual who goes through will have their own unique experience based on what they do, how they react, and who they go in with. It creates a unique opportunity for replayability — even at $29.95 per ticket — with guests able to experience different elements or even take on different duties in certain scenes depending on how aggressively they choose to play.
Initially, Secrets of the Empire will open in two standalone locations. The first will be at Disney Springs at Walt Disney World starting on December 16th, which will be capable of serving around a thousand guests per day across two different stages. A single-stage location will then open at the Disneyland-adjacent Downtown Disney complex in California on January 5th. But The Void will also be opening a two-stage pop-up at the Westfield mall in London for a 12-week run on December 16th, with the location later moving to a different Westfield for subsequent 12-week runs. That’s aside from future locations that The Void CEO Cliff Plumer says are also on the way.
“We'll be announcing more locations that are opening up, but I always say, I like to think of us almost like a Cirque de Soleil,” he says. “There's those flagship locations, and then we have traveling shows.”
The Void currently has locations in Toronto, Utah, and New York, and briefly opened a center in Dubai. But it’s easy to see how the high-profile nature of the Star Wars partnership, together with the pop-up strategy, will expose more people than ever to its unique flavor of virtual reality. It’s coming at a crucial time. The hype wave from the launch of at-home VR dissipated some time ago, and the industry focus has increasingly turned toward location-based solutions like the IMAX VR arcades that the company is currently piloting at movie theaters. But even those are often just souped-up versions of experiences that are already available to VR users at home. The Void, on the other hand, is poised to deliver on the kind of active, full-bodied experience that has largely been the ideal of VR, even if it’s rarely been reached.
That’s not to say Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire is flawless, by any means. I found the hand tracking to be inconsistent, with my virtual hands appearing smoothly at some moments, while remaining stubbornly nonexistent at others. In a scene that required me to hit a number of buttons in sequence in order to escape a room, the tracking between the physical and the digital seemed so misaligned that I was unable to solve the puzzle altogether. And while the visuals are quite good, we are simply not in the realm of photorealism yet.
Those ultimately feel like minor quibbles, though, particularly when something delivers so fully on the most essential promise of all: letting guests feel like they’re actually stepping inside Star Wars. And for ILMxLAB, the project feels like the first real step in delivering on the group’s larger vision of using virtual reality, mixed reality, and other platforms as legitimate extensions of the Star Wars universe. As it turns out, the lynchpin there could be that mysterious cargo that Cassian Andor was so intent on rescuing from the Empire, and that is ultimately revealed in the final moments of Secrets of the Empire.
I ask Williams about the item, given that I didn’t recognize it from any of the films or canon materials. “Hold onto that thought,” she says with a smile. “Lucasfilm Story Group — we are very deliberate in everything that we're putting together in terms of stories. Across all platforms.”
Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire is priced at $29.95. Tickets are available now.


Back in August, DJI launched a bug bounty program meant to reward researchers who came to the company with security vulnerabilities they had discovered. This approach to cybersecurity is now widespread, with big companies like Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo running their own programs, and smaller companies relying on platforms like Bugcrowd and HackerOne.
Unfortunately for DJI, its effort to work with white hat hackers is already causing controversy. Kevin Finisterre, a security researcher whose earlier work on DJI security made headlines, published a long essay yesterday detailing his negative experiences with DJI’s bug bounty program. By this morning, it was on the top of Hacker News, a widely read forum in the US tech community.
Finisterre, along with a collective of hackers he works with, found a very serious flaw in DJI’s web security. They were able to obtain the private key for its SSL certificate, which DJI had accidentally published on GitHub, allowing them access to sensitive customer information stored on DJI’s servers. He asked DJI if this problem was within the scope of its bug bounty, and the company confirmed it was. So Finisterre wrote up and submitted a detailed report. DJI approved of the work and offered him a $30,000 bounty, their highest reward.
But things broke down in the contract DJI sent Finisterre before he could collect. It asked, in essence, that he not discuss details of the work he had done publicly, or that he had done security work for DJI at all. For a researcher like Finisterre, the public recognition of the work is often as valuable as the monetary reward. As they haggled over the contract, DJI’s legal team sent a letter referencing the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which Finisterre interpreted as a thinly veiled threat. He decided to walk away from the money and go public with his experience.
“Despite all of the progress we’ve made over the last 4 years, it’s still relatively novel for organizations to partner with the research community through a bug bounty. It’s not uncommon for organizations who launch without preparation to become overwhelmed by the sheer number of high impact issues — which appears to be a significant part of the problem here,” says Jonathan Cran, the VP of product at Bugcrowd, a bug bounty platform.
“We would recommend DJI fix the issues as soon as possible and not pursue legal action. Based on the information we have today, this appears to be a misunderstanding and not malicious in its intent,” Cran says. “Bug bounties deliver extremely high quality results at unparalleled cost — but as we emphasize to our customers, you need a partner.”
There are examples of bug bounty programs that require researchers to strict non-disclosure agreements. Companies like Apple and United Airlines all ask researchers to stay fairly tight-lipped. But that restriction is made clear before the research invests time in finding, reporting out, and submitting a bug. And some public credit is usually given.
After Finisterre published his account, DJI launched an official website for its bug bounty program and made its terms and conditions clear for anyone who wants to participate. Time will tell if it can mend relations with the researcher community and build a bounty program that works for both sides.







OnePlus is one of those beguiling companies that seem to promise impossibly wonderful things. Flagship products at budget prices. The assiduous elegance of an iPhone at the attainable cost of a midrange Motorola. It’s a company that constantly flirts with the “too good to be true” label, sometimes delivering on its lofty claims and at other times failing to live up to its own hype.
I like the new OnePlus 5T for many of the same reasons that I like OnePlus itself. This device is full of all the right ideas — hardware design, software responsiveness, and overall usability — and if I were tasked with the job of assembling a phone, my specification would read a lot like the OnePlus 5T does on paper. In practice, this phone isn’t the total fulfillment of every objective that OnePlus set for itself, nor every promise the company has made. But it’s damn close. It takes the imperfect OnePlus 5 from five months ago and fixes much of what ailed it. This is the most refined OnePlus phone yet.
At a starting price of $499, the OnePlus 5T combines many of the most sought-after flagship features and specs of 2017 inside a design that’s as handsome and high-end as any Galaxy S or iPhone competitor. The cost is more than any OnePlus phone before it, but in the current era of $1,000 flagships from Samsung and Apple, it seems a very fair price.
If you know me, you’ll know how long I’ve been writing phone reviews and how difficult it is for any new product to impress me. The OnePlus 5T is that rare device that made me pause and appreciate its premium feel as I was unboxing it. The packaging is perfectly standard for OnePlus — that’s not what did it — but the phone itself is so beautifully dominated by the 6-inch OLED display, with neatly symmetrical bezels at top and bottom just holding the thing together.
The sense evoked by the 5T’s design is one of efficiency and optimization, and comparing this new device against anything previous from OnePlus, even the five-month-old OnePlus 5, makes the older model feel inadequate. You’re free to disagree, and you might think I’m overreacting to the thin-bezel craze that OnePlus is now participating in, but I challenge you to think forward a few months. Thin-bezel phones are quickly going to take over the market, and anyone stuck with a fat-bezel device will feel behind the curve. This OnePlus 5T looks lovely today and I can be confident in saying it will still look modern and fresh a year from now.
The move of the fingerprint sensor from the front to the back of the phone has been a total triumph. Covered by a smooth ceramic, the reader sits exactly where you’d find it on Google’s Pixels and LG’s G6 and V30: horizontally centered and a third of the way down. I find it perfectly usable and reliable, but for those situations where you might still want to access the phone without lifting it off a table to ID yourself, OnePlus has also added a new Face Unlock feature to the 5T. I’ve found Face Unlock both delightful and frustrating, like most other face-identification systems thus far. (More on that later.) The important thing is that OnePlus has preempted a complaint, while at the same time feature-matching The iPhone X’s Face ID.
After the LG V30, which I reviewed last month, the OnePlus 5T is the second phone I’ve had the pleasure of handling with a 6-inch screen crammed inside the frame of a 5.5-inch handset. The 5T is scarcely any larger than its predecessor OnePlus 5, which means it’s big, but not overwhelmingly so. Single-handed use of a 6-inch phone still sounds futuristic to me, but the V30, Samsung’s Galaxy S8 Plus, Xiaomi’s Mi Mix 2, and now the OnePlus 5T have all accomplished it (even if the 18:9 aspect ratio breaks the screen size math a little bit).
I have been using a Google Pixel 2 XL most recently, and coming from that hulking device to the leaner and smoother 5T makes a tangible difference. The 2 XL feels blocky without the tapered sides of the 5T, and the difference in heft seems bigger than it is — 175g on the Pixel, 162g on the 5T — because of the better weight distribution of the OnePlus device. Am I saying OnePlus has done a better design job than Google? Yes, absolutely.
My sole complaint about the OnePlus 5T’s industrial design is the camera bump. It’s taller than it was on the OnePlus 5, which the company explains as having been caused by the screen occupying more space inside the phone. The 5’s camera module was built into the space that sat behind bezel on the front, whereas the new camera system resides behind the screen, and so it protrudes a couple of millimeters more. I now find the bump just large enough to be noticeable and to irritate me, though I’m conscious that most people won’t be as nitpicky as I am, and many will put a case on the phone anyway. One thing I do know from the earlier OnePlus 5, though: the camera protrusion ends up collecting a ton of scratches and scuffs, so if you’re not a case person, prepare yourself mentally for some very rapid wear and tear there.
Beside punching above its weight in design, the OnePlus 5T also happens to have one of the better displays on the market today. My initial reaction upon hearing that this device has a 6-inch 18:9 OLED screen was to fear it was another of those poor LG OLED panels that has plagued the V30 and Google’s Pixel 2 XL. It was an unfounded fear, however, as OnePlus wisely waited until it could secure a Samsung OLED screen, and I’ve been super satisfied with that choice.
On your first look, you might not even recognize this as an OLED display: it exhibits none of the telltale signs like lurid over-saturation or color-shifting (at anything but extreme viewing angles). It’s just a very good and reliable screen, and OnePlus has gone to the trouble of providing sRGB and DCI-P3 color calibration options for those among us who care. Knowing the company’s geeky target audience, there’ll be plenty of us who do make use of that facility, and I myself have opted for the sRGB option.
The OnePlus 5 and 5T share a killer feature I haven’t seen elsewhere: a monochromatic Reading Mode. This can be enabled per app or via a quick toggle. It desaturates the screen and adjusts the sharpness and brightness to your environment so it essentially emulates a Kindle (which itself tries to emulate real paper). It’s a huge relief from eye strain and really makes reading much easier. Short of having an actual E Ink screen, as the YotaPhone did, this is the closest any phone has yet gotten to re-creating the Kindle reading experience.
The biggest advantage of this display over the majority of others is the slimness of its bezels, which OnePlus enhances with a thoughtful software tweak. The on-screen Android buttons, which are typically pervasive across all apps that don’t take over in full-screen mode, can be “minimized” on the 5T. You can choose to have them hidden until you want to use them, at which point you can bring them back with a swipe up from the bottom. That gives you the entire 6-inch screen to read tweets and compose emails on, freeing up yet more space. The OnePlus 5T can feel downright luxurious compared to other Android phones in an information-dense app like Gmail, Slack, or Kindle. That being said, I do find myself needing those Android keys a little too often in my daily use to keep them hidden; so this new change is beneficial, but only in circumstances where you don’t have to do much multitasking.
Another improvement from OnePlus with the 5T is a so-called Sunlight Display mode. It’s part of the company’s adaptive mode, and it kicks in when it detects you’re out in bright sunlight. Contrast and other screen parameters are automatically boosted when you set up to compose a photo or video, go into your gallery, or start a game. November in the Northern Hemisphere doesn’t provide the ideal conditions for testing outdoor visibility, and I’ve been highly satisfied with the 5T’s performance outside even without Sunlight Display on. Still, it’s good to know that automatic adjustment exists: trying to take photos in the summer with an OLED screen has often been a challenge, and OnePlus is ironing out that kink and showing it’s thinking about the ways its devices are used.
Marking a welcome return from the OnePlus 5 is the desaturated Reading Mode that I’ve enjoyed very much. True to its name, it makes reading on this phone a much easier and more pleasant task than on most. It is another novel departure from the typical smartphone experience that I very much appreciate. Plus, in typical OnePlus tradition, there’s a nice dark theme that flips all the menus and the app drawer into blackness.
The 2160 x 1080 resolution of the 5T isn’t the highest available, however with 401-ppi pixel density, it’s ample for most people’s needs. The most apparent imperfection to this display is actually how it looks when it’s off: the 5T’s Samsung OLED panel isn’t quite as black as the bezels, it reflects a little more light, and so I can perceive its edges. Why does this matter? Well, a phone like the Pixel 2 XL, iPhone X, LG V30, or any of Samsung’s most recent flagships tends to look like a monolithic block of black awesomeness when off. Part of the charm of OLED screens is in that their blacks are pure and perfect, and thus anything displayed on the screen seems to float atop that darkness. The OnePlus 5T spoils the illusion that the entire front is a display.
My OnePlus 5 review read a lot like this OnePlus 5T review up to this point: good design, good display, with a couple of small critiques. Then things unraveled with the camera. Well, let me say that the 5T has better design, a better display, and now a definitively better camera, too. But it’s still mediocre by the standards of the wider phone market.
It’s arguably unfair that I keep comparing the OnePlus 5T to Samsung, Google, and LG flagships that cost dramatically more than the 5T. But OnePlus invites that comparison itself: the company actively wants to be considered alongside the giants of the Android world, and it definitely wants you to believe it has the best product. When it comes to the camera, I have to say that OnePlus flat out doesn’t have it. Yes, the 5T wins on design and display, but its biggest limitations are apparent with the quality of its images.
Having tried an iPhone-like dual-camera system with the 5 — one wide-angle lens and one telephoto — OnePlus is now switching things up again with an entirely new idea. Instead of different zoom levels, the two rear cameras on the 5T have different intended uses: the main one is unchanged from the OnePlus 5, but the secondary is now a dedicated low-light shooter. Both have a wide f/1.7 aperture, meaning they get plenty of light in, with the main sensor offering a 16-megapixel resolution (with 1.12μm pixels) and the secondary one coming in at 20 megapixels (with pixels measuring 1μm).
How can the second camera can be an improvement for low light when it has smaller pixels? Well, it uses pixel binning: combining the information of four pixels into one, and then re-interpolating back up to its full resolution. The trade-off is that you lose fine detail for the sake of lower image noise. OnePlus says that the system automatically switches to that second cam, but only in situations of less than 10 lux of light, which are quite rare. I’ve had a couple of reasonably good images in challenging lighting conditions with this phone, so I guess things are working as intended. I do like that these architectural changes are invisible to the end user: you still just point the camera at stuff and tap to shoot.
Two neat things about the OnePlus 5T’s camera interface: One is the ability to shoot by holding your finger on the fingerprint sensor on the back, ideal for people (like me) who prefer to shoot selfies with the rear camera. The other is the Pro Mode, which displays a histogram and gives access to manual ISO, white balance, and shutter speed adjustments. I’d be more enthusiastic about this latter part if I felt the camera had the potential to shoot photos that merit such finessing.
Ultimately, the OnePlus 5T’s camera lands in the territory of being serviceable. Decent, even. If you’re only looking at your photos on the phone itself, using them to Instagram a few sights or share moments with friends in a casual and unobsessive fashion, you’ll probably be just fine with the 5T. I have grown used to the higher standard of Google’s Pixel 2 camera, but that phone costs substantially more than this OnePlus device.
Portrait mode marks a return after a very poor debut on the OnePlus 5 and it’s much improved. OnePlus has scaled back the background-blurring effect, which helps to hide the errors when the camera miscalculates whether to blur or keep something in focus. But the system is a lot more robust now too: even in imperfect lighting, it usually identifies the face or object I’m trying to isolate from the background and it generally does the thing I want it to. As with all portrait modes, it’s still a work in progress that misses more than would be ideal, but at least now OnePlus has a respectable competitor, rather than a poorly executed feature. Bonus points for not needing to zoom in to capture a portrait shot — as the iPhone does and the OnePlus 5 used to — with the new camera setup on the 5T.
A note of caution about the front-facing camera: it has the beautification filter on by default — which results in flattening and lightening of skin tone and softening of detail to the point of obliteration — and if you want to take even semi-realistic selfies, you’ll have to tone that stuff down. For a while, I didn’t realize where to disable the (supposed) beautification and my selfies were taken in a world where there are no skin pores, no wrinkles, and absolutely no photographic detail.
Internally, the OnePlus 5T is almost painfully familiar: a Snapdragon 835 system-on-chip with Adreno 540 graphics is flanked by either 6GB (good) or 8GB (entirely excessive) of RAM, with a corresponding 64GB or 128GB of storage. No expansion options available, but you get two nano-SIM card slots. I like that OnePlus is among the first to support Bluetooth 5, which together with support for AptX HD makes this phone a good candidate to serve as your source for wireless music listening. That being said, OnePlus is staying faithful to its users by also continuing to include a headphone jack.
The battery hasn’t changed from the OnePlus 5, it still measures in at 3,300mAh, and the 5T’s highlight power technology is still Dash Charge, the rapid-charging solution that OnePlus says its users are delighted with. That’s all well and good, but you need to use the particular OnePlus charging cable and charger to get the benefit. If you’re like me and you travel a lot, have a billion cables, and prefer the convenience of charging both your laptop and phone with the same charger, all this Dash Charge action is kind of for naught. More to the point, people are starting to expect wireless charging from their flagship phones, and OnePlus, a company that prides itself on “only making flagships” is starting to fall behind on expectations. The right answer here is to just include both fast wired charging and wireless charging, as many of OnePlus' competitors now do.
My experience with the OnePlus 5T extends the positive impression I’ve traditionally had of the battery life of OnePlus phones. The company makes a point of optimizing its software down to a lean and efficient state that’s not too demanding on system resources and power. The time that Samsung might spend thinking of spots to add more Bixby bloat, OnePlus uses to file away an extra layer of clutter. The 5T has impressed me with its endurance, comparing favorably to the Google Pixel 2 XL, LG V30, and HTC U11. I can’t give you a precise ranking of each of those phones — because of how varied the “typical” day’s smartphone usage is — but I can tell you that all of them will get you through a full day and usually deep into the next one on a single charge. No worries on this front.
The best thing about the OnePlus 5T’s software is that the majority of its deviations from Google’s default Android settings are for the better. I’ve articulated a few of them already, including the more sophisticated and adjustment-rich camera software and the display enhancements. In terms of the Android UI, you can swipe down on the fingerprint reader to see your notifications, you can flip the order of your Android keys (or hide them entirely, as already mentioned), and you can double-tap the sleeping screen to activate it.
Face Unlock is the big discrete new feature in the latest software from OnePlus, using more than 100 identifiers to distinguish you from another person. (The company says it is different from the facial unlock features that have been in Android since version 4.0.) In all my testing, it never once gave a false positive of another person being able to log in to my phone with it. So that’s good. But it also let someone unlock the phone by merely flashing it at my face for a split second. That’s less good.
OnePlus warns that Face Unlock is not really a secure method to keep your phone locked down, and indeed the company only offers it for unlocking and doesn’t seek to exploit it for other things like payment authorization. In the constant struggle between convenience and security, this feature is firmly in the convenience section.
I find that Face Unlock usually works well, identifying me even in a perfectly dark room — the lock screen turns on, illuminates my face, and less than a second after that, I’m in — however it also has its struggles. In a club one night, the only way I could unlock the phone with my face was by having a friend point the flash on their phone at me. The 5T can handle the total lack of light, but it seems to be confounded by the cycling lights of an entertainment venue. Of course, unlike Apple’s “FaceID or bust” offering, the OnePlus 5T still has the fingerprint reader on its rear as a fallback biometric ID option.
When it works, Face Unlock is stupidly fast and it combines nicely with the double-tap-to-wake gesture. I think a lot of people will use it, enjoy it, and feel like they’re losing out on nothing relative to iPhone X users with their vastly more sophisticated FaceID technology. My opinion of this tech would probably be warmer if I didn’t have to maintain a tighter grip on security than Face Unlock would allow. I think the people who find other forms of security too fiddly might well be attracted by the ease of use here. To an authorized user, a phone with Face Unlock is (almost) the same as an unlocked phone. Room for improvement definitely remains, but this isn’t just some cynical Apple-chasing gimmick.
I am also a fan of the new Parallel Apps feature that OnePlus has implemented. It lets you clone social apps so that you can run a second instance of, say, Twitter or Telegram. This is a nice convenience for anyone looking to keep private and professional messages separate. This, together with the aforementioned Reading Mode, a Gaming Mode that disables all visual notifications, an Extended Screenshot facility, and a few other tiny tweaks to how Android works makes using the OnePlus 5T feel like a better, more complete experience.
Having laid out all the things I like about OnePlus’ gentle alterations of Android, I’d be remiss if I didn’t bemoan the fact that the OnePlus 5T doesn’t run the latest Android. Instead of Android 8 Oreo, which has been officially available for more than three months, buyers of the 5T will get Android 7.1.1 Nougat. I’ve written more extensively on the subject of why this is a problem, but here it’s sufficient to say that it just doesn’t breathe confidence in me if a manufacturer isn’t able to implement a new version of the OS within the space of three months. It doesn’t bode for future updates down the line.
The OnePlus 5T is a slightly great phone. In today’s world of superb mobile cameras, no phone can be truly great without having a great camera on board, and I don’t think the 5T has one of those. But pretty much everything else about this phone lives up to the aspiration of premium, flagship-tier quality. The 5T is a $499 phone doing admirable battle with devices sometimes twice its price. For anyone whose budget extends no further than this phone, I give it an enthusiastic thumbs up.


In January of this year, I decided I would complete a half-marathon. I would push my body to the limit and be reborn as my best self. For months, I woke up at 6 to run before work, motivated by the promise of sweet endorphins and even-sweeter self-righteousness. But then the winter wore on, and I gained some weight, and now I’m back to 5Ks instead.
In my quest to return to former glory, I redownloaded the “couch to half-marathon” app and spent $100 on a pair of New Balance shoes. I became interested in a genetic-testing kit that promised to provide the information I needed to complete 13.1 miles once and for all.
Genetic testing for wellness seems like a natural choice for someone like me. I still wear my Fitbit every day two years after getting it, making me one of the few and the proud that have stuck with their device for longer than six months. I own a smart scale and a running watch; I track calories and read training forums. But the forum advice is general, while the DNA test kit promised insights based on who I, specifically, am. In a society obsessed with optimizing ourselves, it follows that figuring out the “nature” part of the “nature versus nurture” equation can give us that extra competitive edge.
The test in question is available through Helix, a new consumer genomics company. Helix uses a more sophisticated method of genome sequencing than most other commercial DNA tests, and brands itself as a “platform.” It works like this: you send Helix your genetic data and it sequences it. Then, you buy various data analyses from third-party companies that you authorize to access your genetic information. The offerings are varied. You can learn about your risk for various genetic diseases and your sleep type, see what you and your partner’s baby might look like, or be served wine recommendations “scientifically selected based on your DNA.”
I purchased Helix’s one-time DNA sequencing kit for $80, and for my required add-on, I chose the $220 Fitness Diet Pro by DNAFit. Fitness Diet Pro promises to tell me how best to train and eat — everything from if I am sensitive to carbs to whether I recover more slowly than average after exercise. (My employer covered the cost, otherwise I could not afford it.)
When the kit came, I spent five minutes in the office bathroom surreptitiously spitting into the tube, then sealed it and sent it off. The results that came back provided me with interesting trivia — but it didn’t tell me much I didn’t already know from the fact that I live in this body. I wanted information that would help me improve myself, but in the end, Helix is genetics for entertainment.
When the Human Genome Project was announced in 1989, it was supposed to cost $3 billion. It ended up costing a little less, and the price has been rapidly dropping ever since. Today, sequencing is about 400,000 times cheaper than it was even in 2001, thanks to various breakthroughs in technology, says Steven Salzberg, a professor of genomics at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. Not only is DNA sequencing becoming cheaper, it’s also becoming more comprehensive and accurate.
Imagine that your DNA is a book filled with millions of letters. Most DNA sequencing works by looking at a few specific letters. Maybe you know that there’s a certain letter on page 47, and if the letter is A, then you’re slightly more likely to have Alzheimer’s, and if the letter is C, you’re slightly less likely.
These “letters” are called single-nucleotide polymorphisms, or SNPs (pronounced “snips”). SNPs are scattered pieces all over the genome, so in the end “you’re only reading a very small number of the locations,” says Salzberg. It’s like skimming the key sections when you don’t have time to read the entire book.
Now imagine that instead of looking at scattered letters, you’re figuring out what complete sentences say. Instead of working with scattered parts, Helix sequences continuous DNA segments that encode for specific genes. “The accuracy is very high,” says Salzberg, who adds that this method, called exome sequencing, is especially useful for finding causes of rare genetic diseases. In one of his projects, scientists sequence the exome of someone with a genetic disease and their healthy parents, then compare the entire strand for differences.
Genetic results can tell you ancestry and paternity, and provide information about inherited genetic disease like Huntington’s. They can spell out risks for cancer and other illnesses. There’s a large body of literature on the ethics of these tests and what this knowledge might mean for our choices, but that isn’t relevant in my case. A few years ago, I took a 23andMe test that told me, among other things, that I am 99.5 percent Han Chinese, not a carrier of any genetic diseases, and am likely to have dark hair. (I do. See: 99.5 percent Han Chinese.) I already know I am a relatively healthy person.
This time around, I’m interested in being even better. Wellness tests like Fitness Diet Pro tell you which variation you have of a gene that has been linked to a certain feature, like fast-twitch or slow-twitch muscles. In theory, once you have this information, you know the right foods to eat and the right exercise to make it across the finish line.
But that’s only true if you trust the research, and some of it doesn’t hold up. Eric Topol, a  geneticist at the Scripps Research Institute tweeted that Helix was “giving consumer genomics a bad name” because it relied on shaky science. The sequencing itself is accurate, he says, calling Helix’s sequencing “first-rate,” but the analysis often isn’t. Many of the studies that suggest a link between a gene and a trait are based on poor data and studies that don’t replicate, according to Topol.
Helix offerings like the genetic screening for disease are based on good science, he says, but other add-ons — including Fitness Diet Pro — are useless. (Consider that a biologist came up with a satirical version of Heix’s wine DNA test before realizing it actually existed.) “I looked at many of these and they had no science to support them,” says Topol. “The customer is at a loss because they usually don’t have the time or ability to interpret the scientific article, which often they can’t access anyway. So how are people going to get the truth?”
After more than six weeks, my Fitness Diet Pro results came back: an array of brightly colored genotype PDFs with charts and images of happy people far more fit than me.
The reports weren’t just easy to read, they were careful not to overpromise. That makes sense; the US Food and Drug Administration once ordered 23andMe to stop selling its kits because the company had been marketing itself as a provider of health information without getting proper approval.
The legal disclaimer comes off strong: DNAFit absolutely cannot be liable for anything bad that happens to you if you take the advice. Each portion of the online report has a section clearly laying out what the test can and cannot tell you, and it warns that my results should not “be used to tell us what kinds of sport we can or cannot be good at.”
The superiority of Helix’s exome sequencing was very clear in one area. One of the supposed divides in sports is between athletes who need short bursts of power — think sprinting or power lifting — and athletes like marathon runners and rock climbers who focus more on endurance. When I took the 23andMe test in 2014, I learned that I have the gene for fast-twitch muscles associated with sprinters, though I am far better at 10K distances than I am at sprints. Fitness Diet Pro added more context by showing that though I do have the fast-twitch muscle gene, I actually have more genes associated with endurance sports. The report claims that I am 67.2 percent an endurance athlete and 32.8 percent power — numbers that seem absurdly precise. (The percentages are calculated by a Fitness Diet Pro algorithm that has been fed various studies on the effects of each gene.)
Andrew Steele, a former Olympian and co-founder of DNAFit, walked me through my results. Today, Steele is the head of product for DNAFit, but was once a professional athlete who won a bronze medal in the 4x400m relay at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. He doesn’t have the ACTN3 gene variant associated with fast-twitch muscles, the variant that the majority of elite sprinters have, and which I have as well. “I had some success, but it was the failure side of my career that made me learn what worked and didn’t work, and led me to discover genetics,” Steele tells me. The training advice Steele gave me was solid; he clearly has an enormous amount of nutritional and fitness knowledge.
I have a higher-than-normal risk of soft tissue injury, but have never had any injuries other than occasional twinges of knee pain, and I probably don’t work out enough to put myself at serious risk. Steele asked me about pain, and sent over some helpful exercises for my knees, such as wall sits with a medicine ball. On the bragging rights side, I have a slightly faster-than-normal recovery rate. To take advantage of my “power” genes, Steele suggested adding various types of intervals that would help me get faster and trainer better.
The diet section rated me as “normal” on everything from antioxidant need to Vitamin B need to omega-3 need, and I’m not especially sensitive to carbs or saturated fat. Both this and 23andMe said I’m lactose intolerant (like most people in the world, it hastens to add). And I lack the gene variant that makes my liver better at detoxing. To make up for that lack, Steele said to eat more cruciferous vegetables, like broccoli.
The quality of Helix’s exome sequencing is excellent. But the company’s business model leaves much to be desired. For one, you don’t get access to your own genetic data. You can’t use it to learn about yourself, and if you want to do a non-Helix test or even present it to your doctor, you’ll have to get sequenced all over again. (Helix has said that in the future you may be able to purchase your raw data for an additional fee.)
Helix collects the demographic information, genetic information, and site-browsing information. It only shares the relevant genetic information with the partner (in this case, DNAFit), but the partner may have its own, different privacy policy. It’s always worth looking into the privacy policies of these companies, says Kayte Spector-Bagdady, a bioethicist at the University of Michigan. You should also be aware of if the company may be selling your genetic data, like 23andMe and Ancestry have done.
For example, DNA Fit’s privacy policy says that it won’t sell information to third parties without consent. Vinome, the DNA wine-test company, says the same, but it also adds that you won’t have rights to any products the company could develop using your genetic material. Arivale, a Helix partner that offers DNA wellness coaching, states that it may share your health information with labs or outside contractors to provide evaluations, or with third-party business associates.
Helix may recruit users to participate in medical studies, which is a potential boon when it comes to helping research progress. Right now, the majority of genetic data in biobanks comes from European and Caucasian participants, says Spector-Bagdady, and having more diverse participants — if they can afford the tests — could be helpful for further studies. These are promises we’ve heard before with Apple’s ResearchKit. In their case, recruitment really was bolstered — one of their apps already enrolled more than 41,000 people — but ethical and privacy issues remain. And if Helix released our data, we could participate in any study we wanted, not just the one the company approves.
Helix currently has nearly 30 offerings and is working on partnerships that will launch in the future. Mayo Clinic, for instance, is working with Helix to create a genetics-education app, according to Matthew Ferber, who runs the clinic’s Center for Individualized Medicine. “There are a lot of great books that talk about genetics, but if you don’t have a way to make it real for the individual, it’s hard to get people to move through the dense material,” says Ferber. The Mayo app will take the individual’s DNA itself to teach them about concepts such as autosomal dominance and pharmacogenetics. It’s great cause, but because Helix is a walled garden, Mayo participants won’t be able to access the rest of their data.
Topol, the geneticist from Scripps, says that he’s a “really big fan” of consumer genomics, but it has to be done right. That means providing everyone with their data and only providing results that have been proven by science, like information about genetic risk or how different drugs interact with DNA. Consumer genomics should be rigorous, not peddle results with likely no basis in reality. “I think Helix could be morphed into a very important and strong company if it got rid of all that junk,” he says. “But there’s no sign of that.”
Just because Helix has sophisticated sequencing technology, and just because Steele, the DNAFit co-founder, knows what he’s doing, doesn’t mean this information will help me complete my half-marathon. In almost all cases, genetic information alone simply isn’t enough to make us change our behavior and improve our lives. Studies show that being told you’re at genetic risk for something usually isn’t enough to change your behavior, so the outlook is even worse if you’re just trying to drop a few pounds or complete a race.
For me, specifically, some results might not be applicable because I’m Asian and research studies are often overwhelmingly white. And many of the “insights” were things I already knew. Fitness Diet Pro results suggested that I’m more sensitive to coffee than others, but it’s been clear for years that a few sips will keep me up all night. Steele’s training advice to run intervals was solid, but a quick glance through the r/running subreddit shows plenty of people advising everyone to run intervals, regardless of their preferred distance, and do wall sits. We should all be eating more broccoli and fewer Reese’s cups, liver detox gene be damned.
Plus, many tests are quick to point out that these genes only explain a tiny percentage of the variation in performance. That’s nothing, unless you, like Steele, are at the Olympic level. “For the vast majority of us who are not elite, that distinction is probably irrelevant,” says Brian Zikmund-Fisher, a professor of health behavior at the University of Michigan, and factors like your practice schedule matter much more.
Being told your genetic risk for certain diseases didn’t make you any less likely to quit smoking or move more or even slap on some more sunscreen, according to a paper published in the British Medical Journal last year. “People are very sensitive to information about immediate threat, so if you see a sign saying ‘shark-infested water,’ the chance are that you’ll get into the water are low,” says study author Theresa Marteau, director of the Behavior and Health Research Unit at Cambridge University. But genetic tests give you information that seems abstract and far away.
If important health information isn’t enough to scare us into changing, suggestions about eating more broccoli won’t do much. And I know myself: grimly chanting “my body was built for sprints” won’t take any of the agony out when I do them, and won’t provide any more pleasure than I usually get (none; there is no pleasure in sprints) when I finish.
So what does work? “If we knew the answer of what would reliably shock people to change their behavior, there would be a transformation in human society,” says Zikmund-Fischer. Cambridge’s Marteau agrees, though she says that much of the answer lies in policy change, like soda and cigarette taxes. Social factors — Do you enjoy the activity? Does it fit in with your lifestyle and schedule? — are far more important than genetic tests when it comes to changing behavior. It’s our environments — economic, digital, social, and cultural — that often have the biggest influence on our behavior and that push us to be unhealthy.
When I asked James Lu, Helix’s senior vice president of applied genomics, about this argument, he says that people should decide for themselves what is useful. “Given an environment where people are willing to really try new things, to self-optimize, I think people have a right to information that’s scientifically valid,” he says. “And our goal is to make sure they understand what they’re getting and making the right kinds of decisions.”
Genetic testing, unlike astrology or the dubious claims of Goop, has the trustworthy gloss of cold, hard, reliable science. And as sequencing becomes cheaper and cheaper, it’s easier than ever to take a peek into the original birth charts: our DNA. But science, even if technically accurate, can be fairly useless.
Helix takes a serious branch of science and lightens it up, implying that DNA testing isn’t just about diseases and complicated, technical lab work. It can be about turning your DNA into a scarf. And treating science like entertainment might have negative effects.
It’s not that science can’t be fun. 23andMe gave results on the type of earwax you have, and whether light makes you sneeze. But it also provided useful information on genetic risk. With Helix, you can receive dubious data with none of the useful insights, and popularizing dubious science is counterproductive. “I think it’s unusual for us to think of scientific work that doesn’t have legal and scientific standing, with the idea that we need to ‘take this science with a grain of salt,’” says Jonathan Marks, a professor of anthropology at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte and author of Is Science Racist? “This probably the the wrong direction for the scientific community to be leading the public in, if we’re apprehensive about people not taking science seriously enough.”
In the end, Helix is little more than a form of astrology. Sure, it seems ludicrous to think that my astrological sign will affect my life — but various studies have looked at the influence of peoples’ month of birth on education, childhood intelligence, and socioeconomic status. Maybe there’s a real link there, too, but month of birth is hardly the most important thing when it comes to any of these outcomes.
I am a Pisces, but my birthday falls right on the cusp, when the sign is changing to Aries. So am I more likely to be a typical Pisces, all dreamy and artistic, or a hot-headed Aries? Should I spend more time sprinting because of my fast-twitch genes, or attempting marathons because of all the other ones?
You can spend a lot of time analyzing the precise time and location of my birth, and trying to calculate the precise ways my genes interact and which ones are more powerful. Or you can spend time with me, make observations, ask questions. The answers you get through interaction will almost certainly be more correct.
Helix is unlikely to do major harm, but it’s unlikely to help either. I had signed up for one half-marathon in June, skipped it; signed up for another one two weeks later out of guilt, skipped it; thought about signing up for a third, and thankfully didn’t. It was fall when I received my DNA test back, and while the results were interesting, one look out the window made it clear that I wouldn’t even go outside again until April, much less run intervals. Helix could tell me what I could be doing to improve, but it couldn’t do a single thing to help the biggest roadblock to my dream of the half-marathon: my hatred of cold weather.


Google is releasing a fix in the coming weeks to remove a faint buzzing sound that appears during phone calls on some Pixel 2 devices. A community manager posted a short message on the Pixel User Community forum confirming the fix, stating, “We’re rolling out a software update in the coming weeks which eliminates a faint buzzing sound on some Pixel 2 devices when the phone is placed to your ear during a phone call.”
Some users received replacement handsets, but said the problem remained. Others described the noise as a hissing sound. The fix comes shortly after the company issued a software update to fix the faint NFC-related clicking sounds some users experienced last month.
Though the Pixel 2 launched with rave reviews, the first month of rollout has been troublesome for Google, with devices suffering from a variety of issues including poor sound recording quality, unresponsive spots on the XL’s touchscreen, and some display issues.


It's hard to find USB-C earbuds despite so many Android phones — including Google’s Pixel 2 devices and the Razer Phone — making a switch to the new connector while getting rid of the 3.5mm headphone jack. Fortunately, there’s a new pair of USB-C buds just released called the Razer Hammerhead USB-C. They’re made to match the Razer Phone, but you can easily plug them into any other device that has a USB-C jack.
The earbuds are fitted with 10-mm drivers and acoustic chambers to deliver “deep, distortion-free bass,” according to the company.
Razer’s earbuds include an in-line remote and mic along a flat cable that should help reduce tangles. They’re also magnetic, so you can snap them together when not in use. The main problem with the earphones is the fact that they're a garish neon green and black color, which fits with the Razer aesthetic favored by gamers and few others.
The Razer Hammerhead earbuds come with a custom carry case and are available for $79.99 from the Razer store, joining the Bluetooth and Lightning versions released earlier this year.





Nintendo's third proper mobile game, Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp, will be released on Wednesday November 22nd, the company has announced. Previously pegged for a late November release, the free-to-play game has already been made available in Australia as a soft launch.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp is a camping-themed take on Nintendo's addictive city life simulator, and may well be the company's most successful mobile game yet. The series regularly sells extremely well on Nintendo's dedicated hardware platforms, and the slow-paced design that rewards daily play should make a lot of sense on mobile — as long as Nintendo isn't too aggressive with its microtransactions.


During the 2017 American Music Awards, Disney debuted a new trailer for its adaptation of Madeleine L'Engle’s A Wrinkle in Time, showing off a girl’s fantastic quest across the universe to safe her father.
The movie is based off of L’Engle’s 1963 novel. In it, we’re introduced to a young girl named Meg Murry (Storm Reid), who sets off with her younger brother Charles Wallace (Deric McCabe), her friend Calvin O’Keefe (Levi Miller), and a trio of witches (Oprah Winfrey, Reese Witherspoon, and Mindy Kaling) to search for her missing father, Alexander Murry (Chris Pine). Along the way, they visits several fantastic planets and discovers that the universe is under attack by a personification of evil, The Black Thing.
The trailer explains the concept behind the title: Meg’s father was looking for a way to travel to the stars, and invented the tesseract to transport vast distances instantaneously, only to be captured by the dark force. The witches explain that they’re trying to find warriors to help them serve the light, and that the only person who can save her father from the darkness is Meg.
A Wrinkle in Time is scheduled to hit theaters on March 9th, 2018.



Just weeks after Amazon launched an investigation into allegations of sexual harassment against the star of its Emmy-winning show Transparent, Jeffrey Tambor has told Deadline that he is not returning next season.
In a statement to the publication, Tambor said that while he was privileged to take part in the show, recent events have made it clear that it “is no longer the job I signed up for four years ago.”
On November 8th, Deadline reported that Amazon had begun an investigation after a former assistant came forward with allegations, which he called “baseless,” while days later, another actress alleged that the actor made unwanted sexual comments and advances towards her. The departure is another high-profile exit from Amazon Studios, which saw its studio head Roy Price resign after allegations of sexual harassment.
Transparent is not presently in production for its fifth season, and following the allegations against Tambor, there were reports that the show’s writers were looking at ways to continue the show without his character. Tambor’s departure is similar to Kevin Spacey’s recent firing from his show House of Cards, which has prompted a last-minute fix to continue the show without him.


Germany’s telecommunication agency, the Bundesnetzagentur, has banned smartwatches for kids, and is asking parents to destroy them. According to Bleeping Computer, (via Gizmodo) the regulators have deemed smartwatches targeted at kids “prohibitive listening devices” and are asking parents to destroy any smartwatches their kids have and advising schools to pay closer attention to kids with them.
Germany is targeting the listening capabilities of smartwatches but strangely didn’t say anything about the European Consumer Organization’s (BEUC) announcement that smartwatches pose a security threat to kids’ privacy. The BEUC warned that GPS-tracking smartwatches could be hacked and attackers could track or spoof the GPS location of kids’ smartwatches.
If Europe’s crackdown on smartwatches continues, it will force manufacturers to step up their security protocols and improve the smartwatch market — which isn’t that great right now — for everyone.


We’re five days away from Black Friday (November 24th) and the biggest shopping holiday of the year has already begun at several online retailers. Below, we’ve rounded up our favorite tech deals from Amazon, B&H, eBay, and more.
Great sales will launch throughout the week, many starting on Thanksgiving, so make sure to check back here. We will be bringing you the best deals on laptops, TVs, headphones, and more. Happy shopping!
Looking for more gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s gaming deals roundup here.
Update on November 19th at 12PM EST: This post was originally published on November 18th and updated to add in several deals including PlayStation 1TB Slim, PlayStation VR, and Amazon Kindle, Fire and Dash Button devices.
Update on November 20th at 11:45AM EST: Added in Apple deals at B&H and noted changes on a few previous deals.
Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media's commerce editor, Chloe Reznikov, in collaboration with The Verge's editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here.



*Names have been changed to protect identities.
On a late night in March 2013, Lila* fell asleep on a hotel bed, over the covers, with her clothes still on, while her then-partner, Morgan Marquis-Boire was engrossed in a conversation with one of their friends. They were in Toronto for Cyber Dialogue, a conference organized in part by Citizen Lab, an interdisciplinary group run out of the Munk School of Global Affairs at the University of Toronto that studies the internet and its impact on human rights.
Marquis-Boire was already a rising star in the privacy and digital rights world — a computer security hotshot working to protect vulnerable activists and whistleblowers against oppressive governments. After the summer of 2013, he would become closely identified with whistleblowers like Edward Snowden and the journalists who helped publish the Snowden documents, and he would eventually go to work for The Intercept as a technologist. In 2014, Wired would publish a glowing profile that called him “the ex-Google hacker taking on the world’s spy agencies.” Google’s director of information security Heather Adkins described him as “in the top one percent of technical capability” of people she had hired. Ron Deibert, the director of Citizen Lab, praised him as "extraordinarily talented," and added, “but what I very much appreciate about him is his passion for human rights.”
Marquis-Boire and the mutual friend were engaged in a high-level technical discussion, despite the fact that all three had been drinking heavily that night. Marquis-Boire had taken some pills — benzos, Lila thought, or common prescription tranquilizers. She didn’t take any. Several hours later, Lila became conscious of Marquis-Boire shaking her awake. Their friend had left. At first she thought Marquis-Boire was just rousing her so she could change her clothes and get into bed. But she tells The Verge that she was quickly disabused of the notion.
Marquis-Boire was still intoxicated, but enough hours had passed that Lila was stone-cold sober. According to Lila, as he began to initiate sex, she protested. She said stop. She said no. She even said their safe word.
At this point she’s told the story enough times that she can repeat it with a kind of brittle cheer, but her voice still quickens with anger when she gets to the end. “He ignored all of that,” she says, “while he fucked me in the ass.”
It was only much later that Lila would hear that this wasn’t the first time Marquis-Boire had forced himself on someone, or the first time he had anal sex with a woman without her consent. According to sources, he had been assaulting women for over a decade.
The Verge has corroborated six separate allegations of physical and sexual assault by Morgan Marquis-Boire, with four self-identified victims located in Marquis-Boire’s home country of New Zealand. We also spoke to others in New Zealand, including former friends of Morgan Marquis-Boire, who say that this pattern of behavior was well-known in their community.
This couldn’t be more different from how he was perceived by the wider public. Marquis-Boire was a prolific speaker at security and human rights conferences, including the Aspen Ideas Festival in 2016. He sometimes used his considerable public platform to talk about the larger social problem of violence against women, and even stated that it motivated his recent work at Citizen Lab researching “stalkerware” or “spouseware” — spyware deployed against abused partners by their abusers. (In April 2017, he told Motherboard that he thought spouseware should receive more attention because it was common and widespread, and "the victims are everyday people.") Many of his best friends were women. He made casual, light-hearted jokes about misandry on Twitter.
In short, Marquis-Boire was supposed to be one of the good guys.
That was the Morgan Marquis-Boire that Dana* knew. Dana, a close friend of both Marquis-Boire and Lila, ran in the same San Francisco social circles. She was never in a relationship with Marquis-Boire, but they were very good friends, and his emotional support had become “a precious lifeline” to Dana. When Chloe Ann-King, a woman in Auckland, New Zealand, reached out to Dana via Facebook Messenger in September 2014 to warn her about Marquis-Boire, the ensuing conversation made her head spin. Ann-King alleged that Marquis-Boire had physically and sexually abused close friends of hers, including coercing anal sex from a woman too intoxicated to consent.
Dana knew that Morgan had substance abuse problems and that he was a “shitty boyfriend,” but struggled to accept the idea that he could be a serial rapist. But she believed the account, as difficult as that was. She just didn’t know what to do. “I wanted to believe that whatever fucked up shit he’d done in his early twenties was long over,” said Dana. “I fucking vouched for the guy. Pretty dumb, huh?” But it was Dana who would eventually become the bridge between New Zealand and the United States, bringing Morgan Marquis-Boire’s world crashing down around him.
Lila compartmentalized the assault, and she and Marquis-Boire continued dating for a year and a half. In 2015, after the relationship had ended, Lila told Dana for the first time about what had happened in the Toronto hotel room. In response, Dana recounted in broad strokes what Ann-King had told her via Facebook Messenger, but it was somewhat vague. “She gave no indication to me that she had been told Morgan had raped a bunch of women,” said Lila. In 2017, Dana showed Lila screencaps of her conversation with Ann-King and it was then that Lila learned that Ann-King had accused Marquis-Boire of anally penetrating other women without their consent. In interviews with The Verge, Dana expressed remorse that she hadn’t shown Lila the chat logs sooner.
Suddenly, Lila no longer saw what happened in Toronto as a singular, isolated incident on a drunken night, but one more data point in a decades-long pattern of sexual assault stretching from New Zealand to North America.
“The only thing I have ever wanted is for Morgan to stop hurting women,” Lila told me — a sentiment echoed by multiple women interviewed by The Verge.
The Verge spoke to several women in New Zealand who were only teenagers when they knew Marquis-Boire, and have corroborated several incidents of sexual and physical assault, including multiple accounts of forced anal sex. In 2008, Marquis-Boire left Auckland for a Google job in Zurich, Switzerland, and then later relocated to San Francisco. The women he left behind in New Zealand helplessly watched his star rise for well over a decade, unmarred by even a whisper of the wreckage he had left behind in his home country. Some of the victims buried their memories and tried to put the past behind them. Others, like Chloe Ann-King, tried to reach out to Marquis-Boire’s new friends and make this local open secret known abroad. But no one believed the women trying to blow the whistle on the man who protected whistleblowers.
Lila’s story closely echoed the stories The Verge uncovered in New Zealand. But Lila was different from these women: she, like her alleged rapist, was a hacker and a respected expert in the same field. Although Marquis-Boire’s reputation may have insulated him from accusations by other women, what Lila had to say about what happened in Toronto in 2013 would be believed.
Throughout The Verge’s investigation, sources expressed fear that Marquis-Boire, a lauded security expert, could hack them in retaliation. Corroborating electronic messages that could be used as evidence of his assault, one woman said, could not be found because he had been too careful with his operational security. One alleged victim told us that he had apologized to her, but had done it — either coincidentally or on purpose — through an ephemeral messaging app, one of the very technologies he had advocated for as an activist.
Lila, on the other hand, managed to out-maneuver him. She made him communicate with her in written electronic mediums, and when he was evasive, demanded that he describe his own behavior clearly and specifically. In the end, she was able to provide The Verge with both a chat log and a PGP signed and encrypted email from Morgan Marquis-Boire. In the email, he apologizes at great length for a terrible but unspecified wrong. And in the chat log, he explicitly confesses to raping and beating her in the hotel room in Toronto, and also confesses to raping multiple women in New Zealand and Australia.
“He had to have known what I was doing,” said Lila, sounding almost disgusted. Now that she had his confession in hand, she could go public if he did not take steps to stop harming women.
In early July, Lila laid down an ultimatum, one that included the requirement that he enter a rehab program and get clean. But after further conversations with Marquis-Boire, she came to the conclusion that the scope of the assaults was far beyond anything she had imagined.
Although Lila had explicitly asked him how many women he had raped, in all of their conversations, he never gave her a precise tally. “I have drunkenly sexually assaulted or raped women - the exact number of which I am currently determining,” he admits in the chat log. In the PGP-encrypted email, he never uses the word “rape,” but in referring to an “inventory of my sins,” he writes, “I don’t have a number for you yet, but it’s going to be worse than anything anyone has documented.”
Lila did not want to go public with her allegations, and was anxious to preserve her privacy. (She still expresses concern that if her identity becomes widely known, the rape will draw unwanted attention.) She told him to write a Facebook post announcing that he was going to get sober, and then made him rewrite it when it wasn’t specific enough. On July 12th, Marquis-Boire posted on Facebook that his interest in alcohol had “reduced significantly,” only implying indirectly that he has quit drinking.
The Facebook post racked up over 500 likes and numerous encouraging comments, including one from Judith*, an activist who was close with both Marquis-Boire and Lila. When Lila saw the comment, she reached out to Judith via encrypted text message, explaining that there was more to the Facebook post than met the eye, and disclosing to her, for the first time, that she had been raped by Marquis-Boire.
Suddenly, Judith remembered a drunken night in 2014, when she and Marquis-Boire had gone home together. She’d drunk a little more than she should have, but she had gone home with Marquis-Boire and cuddled platonically with him a “million times” before, and felt perfectly safe. At his place, he began to snort something, and he offered her some. It wasn’t something she had done before, but she’d had “a particularly bad week” and snorted it, too. He initiated sexual contact, and she consented, but then the drugs and alcohol made her black out.
When she got up in the morning, she found an anal toy in the bathroom sink. “It’s not something I would have ever consented to,” said Judith. But on the other hand, she had consented to doing a drug she’d never done before, right? And Marquis-Boire had been extremely intoxicated as well. It was just bad sex, she had thought at the time, not an assault.
But after Lila described her assault and told her about similar incidents in New Zealand, Judith began to see that night as part of a much larger and more terrifying pattern.
As the apparent enormity of his hidden abuse continued to sink in, Lila changed tactics. In late July, Lila told Marquis-Boire that she was going to petition to have him removed from his advisory positions at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Freedom of the Press Foundation. But he begged her for the chance to withdraw from Citizen Lab on his own, and to confess to the director Ron Deibert in his own words. She consented to this.
Marquis-Boire resigned from Citizen Lab in September, according to the organization. But when Lila followed up with Citizen Lab, she discovered that he had not in fact confessed to being a rapist. Deibert, Lila said, was furious when he heard the full story. He took further steps to make sure Citizen Lab was no longer working with Marquis-Boire in any capacity, either “formally or informally.”
Lila stayed quiet about what was happening, and asked the organizations she contacted to also stay quiet out of respect for her privacy. Marquis-Boire withdrew from upcoming speaking engagements. For conferences that did not publicly confirm that he had withdrawn, Lila asked her friends to call the organizers to request he be dropped. She told The Verge that she saw this as necessary to preventing future rapes. By September, she had effectively forced him out of his own sphere of influence.
In the meantime, he lashed out at both Lila and Dana for being unfair to him. In mid-August he called Dana, a call she described as “one of the most terrifying things that’s happened to me in a while.” He not only threatened suicide but also intimated that everything that was happening to him was Dana’s fault, while Dana sobbed and hyperventilated in fear. He also made vague threats towards Chloe Ann-King.
“I hadn’t told him Chloe was my contact,” said Dana.
Unlike other recent high-profile sexual assault allegations, where public disclosure has caused professional consequences, Marquis-Boire’s career was dead before news of his assaults was publicly reported.
Word of Marquis-Boire’s behavior began to circulate in the digital rights community, and soon, news of his fall from grace began to reach New Zealand. Chloe Ann-King began to watch for indications that he had been removed from the high-profile institutions he was affiliated with. On October 12th, Chloe Ann-King tweeted to thank The Intercept for removing Morgan Marquis-Boire from their staff page, saying, “he raped two women I know.” In subsequent tweets, she mentioned that within the insular goth community of Auckland, New Zealand, he was known as “goth Morgan the rapist.”
First Look Media, The Intercept’s parent company, said it never received any reports of sexual misconduct by Marquis-Boire, either internally or, as was the case at Citizen Lab and other organizations, from an external source like Lila. First Look Media said that Marquis-Boire had actually left his position in September, but the update to the website had been slow in coming. But Ann-King’s public denunciation set off a chain effect anyways, when numerous reporters, including reporters at The Verge, contacted both her and the organizations that Marquis-Boire had been involved with.
On October 13th, Citizen Lab released a statement explaining that they had definitively cut ties with Marquis-Boire after hearing from Lila — who is not identified in the statement, but has identified herself to The Verge — that she had been raped.
“I have expressed a desire to try to atone for my actions and I have started trying, starting with figure exactly everything that I need to atone for,” Marquis-Boire told Lila in the chat log from early July. He said he had various thoughts in “early stages,” that would involve flying back to New Zealand, to speak with people face-to-face.
“You will also have to go to Australia,” Lila replied.
“Makes sense,” he said. “I thought I would start with the greatest concentration.”
The Verge attempted to reach Morgan Marquis-Boire, but he did not reply to our requests for comment. As far as we are aware, he has not made any plans to return to New Zealand. In October, an ex-girlfriend in contact with him told us that he was thinking of going to the UK to get away from the “stress” of the situation.
Lila never planned on going public with her story. But his reluctance to take further concrete steps to make things right, despite the contrition he expressed, has forced her to take more drastic action, she says.
“I emphasized how important it was for him to stop doing damage,” she said to The Verge. “Before I went to anyone else, I wanted to give him the opportunity to stop. He spent a lot of time talking to me about how he wanted to get better, how he wanted to change, but he also tried to weasel out of any responsibility for what he did to other women. In the end he was not ready to face what he had done. And in the end, that is why I am doing this.”
Additional reporting by Russell Brandom and Laura Hudson.


If your idea of trucker life comes from movies like Smokey and the Bandit or Convoy, you’re living in the past. Truckers have swapped their citizen band radios for tablets, smartphones, and apps. But that doesn’t mean they’ve completely abandoned the CB radio lingo of the glory days.
Police officers are still called “Smokey,” Mack trucks are referred to as “Bulldogs,” and ambulances are known as “Band-Aid Buggies.” The lingo has changed since its heyday in the 1970s and ‘80s — no one calls each other “good buddy” anymore — but a lot of it is still in use. Which made me curious: once Tesla’s new Semi trucks start hitting the road in earnest in a couple years, what should truckers call them?
Elon Musk seems content to call the truck just “Semi,” which honestly is pretty disappointing. Especially since Musk seems obsessed with using inside jokes or crude humor to name his various projects. The fact that the truck will forever be “Semi” seems like an enormous missed opportunity.
I reached out to a couple of experts to see whether we could come up with some better names for Tesla’s truck. I asked Henry Albert, a veteran trucker and owner of Albert Transport Inc., and Joel Morrow, a driver with Ploger Transportation, for their ideas. I also tapped into The Verge’s hive mind for inspiration (as well as few outside pun-smiths), and came up with what I think is a pretty good list. Please vote below for your favorite, and we’ll tweet the winner at Musk to see if he likes it. (And if you have your own submissions, please leave them in the comments section.)
This poll is closed.


Maybe winter is already taking its toll on you — have you checked? Short days, dry air, too many people in Burlington Coat Factory, all the interesting coffee flavors double in price. These things take a toll on the body.
Luckily, At Home With Amy Sedaris, a new Tuesday night TruTV show of which there are already five episodes available to watch, will help. I promise. Sedaris is best known for her starring role in cult classic in Strangers with Candy, her voice work on BoJack Horseman, her supporting part on Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, her famous brother, her fantastic advice column in The Believer, and two books about crafting and cooking. Here, she plays herself, living alone in a house based on her real apartment, cooking and crafting and hosting guests. That’s the whole show. She cooks; she crafts; she hosts guests; she lives alone. On her wall, there is construction paper artwork that reads “ALONE BY CHOICE.” At the end of each episode, her guests clear out and she relaxes with a bath, some raunchy calisthenics, or a period of reflection on what she has learned in the preceding 25 minutes.
At Home With Amy Sedaris is modeled after an antiquated genre of television: the hospitality shows of the ‘60s that taught women how to cook and create and become a perfect domestic partner. Sedaris told Eater last month that she loved those shows as a kid, saying she played “hospitality show” as a game of fantasy when she was growing up. “I like playing house, I like cooking, I like talking to a camera, talking to people that would come on the show.” That spirit is obvious in At Home with Amy Sedaris, as it’s as much about playing as it is actually succeeding at doing anything useful. Sedaris makes crafts like “tater toes” (shoes made out of baked potatoes) and “panty hose eye burritos” (pantyhose filled with beans and decorated with fake eyes, to wear as a sleep mask). She hosts Rachel Dratch, Paul Giamatti, Scott Adsit, Nick Kroll, and some other weirdos, all playing characters who are also weirdos.
She makes food like angel food ice cream cake, which she serves as a crumbling disaster covered in a pile of whipped cream — applied by hand. She serves sangria with Twizzler straws and wraps up a still-lit candle to give as a gift. She also makes actually beautiful pork chops and steak medallions, cable-knit sweaters and coin-studded placemats. She is good at some things and terrible at others, but never acknowledges the difference.
Coming back from a commercial break in one episode, Sedaris greets the audience warmly: “Oh hello, I was just admiring this beer can that I painted to look like an owl.”
The show is calmly weird, making no real fuss over the idea of pouring pancake mix into a toaster or serving a can of condensed milk as dessert. Sedaris rattles off explanations for these decisions as if she is explaining basic arithmetic to a PhD student, almost apologizing for how obvious it should all already be. In an episode about hosting a dinner party when you don’t have any money, she turns casually to the camera and declares: “Being poor is an appalling condition in which one is deprived of even the most basic human needs — is one way to view it! But being poor can also be an amazing opportunity for creative resourcefulness.”
It would be borderline offensive if it weren’t so charming, and followed up by a segment in which “Regional Wine Lady” Ronnie Vino (also played by Sedaris) comes over and teaches her to disguise her tiny booze budget by dumping a fruit salad and some flat ginger ale into dirt-cheap wine, garnishing with “whatever fruit fell on the floor when you were dumping it in.” Before she leaves, Ronnie sings her signature jingle, “It’s Friday / I’m gonna get drunk / I’m gonna get laid” and hip-thrusts in all denim.
Another episode focuses on dealing with grieving people. Sedaris starts the show in the back of a stranger’s funeral, saying she wandered in by accident, looking for a bathroom: “But this is a happy accident because it serves as a stark reminder that sometimes, people are sad. You can’t swing a dead cat without hitting someone who’s grieving, especially if they’re the owner of that cat.” Intending to spend the episode teaching homemaker skills related to compassion and mourning, Sedaris’ plans are derailed by the death of her beloved goldfish. So a Southern busybody named Patty Hogg (Sedaris again) takes over the show and storms through the kitchen, shouting, “She’s got her tea cups in with her juice glasses! Amy, you are useless!” In situations like these, Sedaris plays the straight man opposite zany characters that are also played by Sedaris. She is luminous. She makes winter bearable in her warm, colorful home, with her warm, disturbing personalities.
Sedaris told Eater that hosting friends and family is the best way to combat stress, explaining, “You get good friends together, you cook, you drink something, you smoke something. You do whatever you want to do. And you feel all right for a little while.” If you do not want to actually host anyone, you can also feel all right for a little while by watching the new TV show At Home with Amy Sedaris. You could even do both at the same time? Just grab a cow shin and a bottle of pink nail polish and you can follow along.
The show represents a fun, sloppy example of adulthood. Those are pretty rare, and Sedaris somehow makes the world seem both more surprising and more kind. It reminds me of dinner parties in college — how 20-year-olds play grown-up — which my idiot friends would show up to with boxed wine, or baked ziti with American cheese slices on top. At Home with Amy Sedaris has the same candor as a Martha Stewart blog post, the same DIY spirit and disgusting results as a Tasty video, the same comforting mundanity as Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood, and the same magic as an Easy Bake Oven.
Though it can solve anyone’s winter blues, this show is a triumph for weird girls specifically. It’s not the type of “weird” encouraged on Instagram, which is more about arranging yourself into a quirky, stylish still-life and joking about looking like a slob when you don’t actually. It’s not like Pinterest, where everything turns out perfect in the end — though occasionally things do turn out pretty good. Sedaris is dazzling, skilled, and unabashedly weird; she’s capable of making or smiling through anything. She’s unfazed when she makes a mortician cry and she grins gamely at a community theater actor who tells her, “Your hands are like the claws of a raven.” She puts a platter full of water in the middle of her dining room table and tells a guest that they just missed the most beautiful ice sculpture recreation of the iceberg that hit the Titanic.
“I’ve got a few tricks up my sleeve, also some spiders,” she says, dressed as a hobo with a foot fetish, addressing herself, dressed in a Snow White costume. Her show is not like anything you can watch anywhere else, and it’s also nothing like the real world. It’s a delight. It’s winter, and you need it.



To many, rocket science may seem like an impenetrable concept that’s just too difficult to understand, but a new book argues otherwise, aiming to break down the basic concepts behind spaceflight — to children.
The new book is appropriately titled Rocket Science, and it was written by Andrew Rader, an aerospace engineer at SpaceX, as well as an avid author and game designer. The story is complete with easy-to-follow descriptions and graphics of space travel, explaining what is needed to make rocket engines ignite, for instance, as well as how space vehicles explore our Solar System. The idea behind the book, Rader says, is to show kids that this type of science isn’t unreachable.
“The way things work in space is really just based on physics,” Rader tells The Verge. “Understanding how things work helps to keep kids interested and gives them the idea they can do it themselves.”
The book starts off with the basics: how rockets work and why they’re designed the way that they are. Rader also delves into the concept of rocket staging — the idea of stacking rockets on top of each other and then breaking them apart during launch to save on weight. His book also explains how rocket reusability works, too, showing how vehicles like SpaceX and Blue Origin’s rockets land after takeoff. “Because you shed that stuff during flight, it makes sense to get it back,” says Rader.
The second half of the book focuses on planetary exploration, detailing many of the different missions that have visited other worlds in our Solar System. It also delves into the various orbits spacecraft can take around Earth, as well as the paths vehicles travel to reach other planets.
Rader has written two previous children's books on space before this one. His other stories featured animal characters going on missions and were mostly targeted toward younger kids, between the ages of five and six. Rader says this book is targeted to a slightly older crowd, between six and 10, in order to keep up with the readers of his other books as they got older.
“We wanted to catch that same group as they got older and keep them on that trajectory,” says Rader. “Little kids love space and they naturally are interested in it, but older kids, they lose interest between the ages of six and 10, and eventually by 11 or 12 they don’t think space is cool anymore. So we wanted to keep interest going in that critical time period.”
But it’s not just kids that Rader hopes to reach. He thinks adults could benefit from the book, too. “We had a number of people read it who had no science background at all and made significant changes based on that,” he says.
To fund the book’s publication, Rader launched a Kickstarter campaign, which has already exceeded its target goal of $15,000. The book has already been sent off to print and once the campaign officially ends in the next couple of weeks, he plans to prepare shipments so that backers get their books by Christmas. So there’s still plenty of time to snag a book for the holidays.
Check out a few graphics from “Rocket Science” below:


Earlier this week, Amazon Studios revealed it was planning a prequel series to Lord of the Rings, a timid choice that passed over fresh fantasy literature in favor of a well-established and ever-expanding franchise. My colleague Andrew Liptak put forward an excellent argument for bringing new, lesser-known work into the spotlight. But since the announcement, I’ve realized that a company as powerful as Amazon could take that good advice to a level that’s downright dystopian.
Amazon has built a stable of services touching just about every part of the entertainment industry, from film and game development to ebook publishing and video streaming. It’s also built a retail empire on cheap piecemeal labor, free material generated by users, and an arcane system designed to connect people with things they want at the absolute maximum level of efficiency. So it’s not hard to imagine it — or a similarly large competitor — building a miniature film industry that looks a lot like an automated marketplace.
In Amazon’s case, the basic pieces exist already. Its Kindle Direct Publishing service would add an automatic, opt-out film or TV license — including the option for specific stipulations, like no R-rated adaptations or no character whitewashing. The synopsis would go to Amazon Studios, where aspiring directors or screenwriters could lease the rights for a production. They’d submit the final result to Amazon Studios, where a moderation team could approve it for Amazon Video.
This doesn’t actually sound bad. It combines ideas that are already in use on other web platforms — the fiction site Wattpad helps sell popular stories to studios, for example, and YouTube lets music labels automatically collect royalties from people using their songs. Ideally, the system encourages directors outside the existing film industry to build on the ideas of authors outside the bestseller lists, and give their work a place in a major streaming library. If a project is popular enough, a traditional studio could pick it up for wider release with a bigger budget, the way web series can become TV shows.
But the bigger platforms get, the scarier the idea becomes. Amazon has tremendous clout in the publishing industry, and a near-monopolistic version could make it very difficult for authors to refuse the company’s deal. It could also contractually make filmmakers’ work permanently exclusive to Amazon Video. Scammers and trolls would find ways to game a massive semi-automated catalog, just as they game Amazon’s retail marketplace. If Amazon keeps ultimate control over adaptation rights, it could even let studios pull a successful project out from under its independent creators, replacing them with a “safer,” better-known cast and crew.
And the same aversion to new work could creep into the process over time. Amazon’s Kindle Worlds, for instance, currently lets authors write tie-in stories for existing book series. Throw it (or a similar program) into the mix, you could end up with a franchise ouroboros: writers eternally churning out Amazon fan fiction for their favorite Amazon TV series, and directors processing it into spinoff after spinoff. To make things worse, it’s easier to get away with telling “fan writers” that they’re privileged simply to have their material picked up for a project, and they shouldn’t expect payment as well.
Entertainment is already being transformed by a combination of far-reaching platforms and an endless supply of free creative labor. This nightmare scenario is just the most elegantly Darwinian incarnation. It’s certainly not inevitable: even beyond the established entertainment industry, there’s a history of creative people designing systems that offer havens from exploitative platforms. When now-failed commercial fan fiction site FanLib angered a group of writers with its restrictive terms, they created Archive of our Own, a remarkably well-designed nonprofit option. The Creative Commons copyright system isn’t a discrete “platform,” but it’s a framework that lets artists operate outside the traditional copyright system without giving up all rights to their work.
Even so, if we’re talking about epic struggles for the fate of fantasy worlds, it’s worth keeping an eye on the powers that are shaping our own.


There was a lot of pomp and circumstance at SpaceX’s Hawthorne, California, headquarters for the big Tesla Semi truck unveiling. There was even a surprise cameo from the ghost of Tesla’s Christmas past: the second generation of the Roadster. But at no point did CEO Elon Musk mention the car on which the fate of his entire company still hinges: the Model 3.
It’s not totally shocking. After all, the Model 3 had its own party earlier this year. But since then, Tesla’s first high-volume, mass-market vehicle has hit a number of snags.
When Musk launched the Model 3 in July, the company was anticipating a production rate of 20,000 cars a month by the end of December. In the last quarter, though, Tesla produced only 260 Model 3s — about three cars a day. That’s well behind a normal pace of about one car per minute. Earlier this month, Tesla pushed back its target for volume production on the Model 3 — widely seen as crucial to the company’s long-term future — by about three months to fix production bottlenecks.
In all likelihood, the unveiling of the Semi truck and the Roadster was meant to achieve two outcomes: distract investors and Wall Street analysts from the Model 3’s production woes, while also recapturing some of the excitement and magic that helped propel Tesla to its current heights as one of the most valuable automakers in the US.
“I do feel like the company needed to generate a little bit of excitement,” said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of industry analysis at Edmunds. “[Musk] needed a shiny new object to wave in front of everyone’s faces.”
Some analysts feared that the truck and the Roadster would prove to be an expensive distraction for the company, which has never posted a profit and currently describes itself as in “production hell” trying to get the Model 3 out the door. Production of the truck and the sports car are aimed at 2019 and 2020 releases, respectively.
Tesla spent $1.1 billion on its auto business in the most recent quarter, and it expects expenses of $1 billion in the current one. The company had about $3.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of September 30th. At the current cash-burn rate, Tesla would likely be down to about $1 billion in cash by the end of the first quarter of 2018. That’s not good, and the potential outcome of such an event helps explain the timing of the Roadster’s reveal.
“I feel there is a combination of throwing out a bright, shiny object for the media and fans to focus on and then using that as yet another way to raise capital,” said Sam Abuelsamid, an analyst for Navigant. “Tesla is burning cash at an alarming rate and another share sale or sale of more junk bonds would be problematic.”
At the event, Musk said interested buyers could reserve a Tesla Roadster now, with a $50,000 deposit on its estimated $200,000 base price, or pick up one of the 1,000 more powerful Founders Series cars by paying the full $250,000 now. It was very clearly framed as a way for Tesla to raise a lot of money for its short-term commitments. If the company finds a thousand takers for the Founder’s series Roadsters, that’s $250 million added to Tesla’s cash balance.
“Essentially doing a Kickstarter for these cars strikes me as a cynical move by a company that is struggling to come to grips with the basics of mass manufacturing and making a profit,” Abuelsamid said. “That said, no one is holding a gun to anyone’s head and they are free to do spend their wealth however they please. There are many true believers beyond Elon himself and they want to keep funding the dream.”
For all the breathless coverage it seems to get (guilty!), it’s easy to forget how small Tesla’s impact on the automotive world really is. In the five years since Tesla started producing its Model S, the company has sold about 200,000 cars. The US has more than 250 million passenger cars on the road, making the impact of this, roughly, close to zero. Which is not to say that Tesla’s mission to liberate us from our addiction to fossil fuels isn’t noble. And the company’s ability to steer most of its competitors toward their own electrification plans is incredibly powerful and has helped solidify Tesla as a leader in sustainable transportation.
But if the company can’t get its shit together and start delivering the Model 3 in high volume, all of its efforts could be for naught. If the Model 3 fails to catch fire, demand for EVs could drop overall. States may start to reconsider tax credits and other incentives used to lure consumers to consider electric transportation. Plans to build more charging stations so people can assume a certain level of reliability may fall apart. The country could retreat further from the environmental standards and the oil and gas industry would sink its claws deeper into our institutions.
Okay, that all sounded bad. I’m not saying the future of sustainability relies on the Model 3. But in all honesty, maybe it does.


Startup accelerator Y Combinator has parted ways with Peter Thiel, where he served as a part-time adviser since 2015. The company did not specify why the two have cut ties; a short statement at the top of a Y Combinator blog post introducing and welcoming Thiel two years ago reads “Peter Thiel is no longer affiliated with Y Combinator."
The news comes a little over a year after Y Combinator was criticized for keeping Thiel on as an adviser following the VC’s public support of then-presidential candidate Donald Trump. At the time, Y Combinator president Sam Altman defended keeping Thiel onboard, tweeting that he was “not going to fire someone for supporting a major party nominee,” and that although they disagree politically, “Diversity of opinion is painful but critical to the health of a democratic society.”
Neither Thiel nor Y Combinator has responded to the press’s request for comment, though Buzzfeed reports that the part-time adviser program that Thiel had been a part of was shut down last year. At the time Thiel joined Y Combinator, other part-time advisers included Groupon’s Andrew Mason, Stripe’s Patrick Collison, and Homejoy’s Adora Cheung.


Hirokazu Tanaka has a history most game composers can only dream of. As a young sound designer working at Nintendo in the 1980s, he crafted the soundtracks to classics like Metroid, Earthbound, Dr. Mario, and Tetris. Later on, he would write songs for the original Pokémon anime. Now, a few decades later, he’s releasing his first proper solo album, a collection called Django that fuses chiptunes with techno and reggae.
Tanaka — who is releasing the album under his stage name “Chip Tanaka” — describes the new collection as “the culmination of my harder side, the kind of game music you hear in EarthBoundʼs battle tracks.” The 13 songs jump around from genre to genre. The opening track, “Ringing Dub,” starts out as a thumping electronic track, before easing in some 8-bit bloops and a more breezy reggae sound. For the most part, the album is lighthearted; it can be loud and powerful, but it never feels dark or depressing. It’s part modern pop, part tribute to classic video games.
The infusion of reggae shouldn’t be too surprising for Tanaka’s fans: the genre has been a steady influence on him throughout his career. At live shows he’s been known to mash up dub sounds with game classics like Balloon Fight. “During my 20s and 30s, I was a total reggae-head,” he told The Japan Times. “I had to cut down after a while, as I realized if I was only listening to reggae, I wouldn’t be able to make other kinds of music.”
With Django, Tanaka joins a growing list of Japanese game composers branching out into solo work. In 2015 Ninja Gaiden composer Keiji Yamagishi released the first half of his chiptune odyssey Retro-active, while Red Bull has hosted an ongoing radio series called “Diggin’ in the Carts” about Japanese game music, which included the launch of a new album this week. Meanwhile, Mega Man composer Manami Matsumae is also in the midst of working on her first solo album.
What these albums have in common is that they set these musicians free from the often restrictive world of game development. Tanaka has said that making music at Nintendo was more like a typical job than an artistic endeavor. With Django, he’s finally showing exactly what he’s capable of.
You can check out Django now on Bandcamp and iTunes.


Our first look at The Incredibles 2 is here. The sequel to Pixar’s 2004 superhero film The Incredibles will bring back the super-powered Parr family, and will pick up immediately after the closing of the first movie.
The trailer shows off one thing: babies with superpowers are dangerous. At the end of The Incredibles, Jack-Jack began to manifest powers after he was kidnapped by the super villain Syndrome. Babies are already destructive in their non-superpowered state, but in this teaser, we see just how dangerous they can be with them.
DIsney announced the sequel in 2015, originally scheduling it for 2019, but later bumped it to 2018 last year. The company showed off some footage from the film earlier this year at D23, and at the event, director Brad Bird said that advances in animation technology since 2004 has allowed them to revisit the characters, making them more realistic and making them more expressive.
The Incredibles 2 will hit theaters on June 15th, 2018.


Until this fall, Polaroid had not made instant cameras and film in about a decade and instead branched out to licensing its name to other electronic products like televisions, tablets, and even drones. But despite all that, Polaroid is still trying to keep its brand synonymous with the square instant film look. So much so that it’s demanding millions of dollars in royalty payments from Fujifilm, which found continued success with its Instax line after Polaroid exited the instant photography industry in 2008.
This week, Fujifilm filed a formal complaint to a US District Court in New York, claiming that PLR IP, the brand licensor for Polaroid instant cameras, sent the company multiple letters requesting Fujifilm either pay millions in annual royalty payments or remove its line of square-shaped Instax film from market. Previously, Fujifilm only sold rectangular Instax film, with sizes ranging from small postcards to business cards.
In the letter sent to Fujifilm, Polaroid claims that it owns the trademark to the “square within a square” effect, and that Fujifilm’s new line of film is “essentially identical” in shape and border margins. Fujifilm responded by saying that Polaroid is attempting to gain revenue from what remains of the company’s intellectual property portfolio after failing to profit from its own product sales.
The back and forth has been going on between the two companies since January, with things finally headed to court now that Fujifilm has submitted a complaint. Fujifilm is hoping the court will rule that its square Instax film do not violate Polaroid’s IP and cancel Polaroid’s trademarks.
Fujifilm isn’t the only company that continued to produce instant film since Polaroid dropped out of the business. After that announcement in 2008, a company called The Impossible Project was formed to continue manufacturing instant film (most of which were square-shaped) only for one of the investors to buy a huge stake in Polaroid then renamed the company Polaroid Originals in September 2017. It is remains unrelated to Polaroid Corporations.


I went to see Lady Bird last weekend with a small group of friends. I'd been really excited to see it: Greta Gerwig, who wrote and directed the film, has low-key established herself as one of the smartest actors and writers around, wonderfully balancing comedy and deeply revealing characters, and Lady Bird is her first directing effort.
The verdict from everyone I went to see it with is that Lady Bird is not just everything you could hope for from a Gerwig film, but it's also a straight up emotionally devastating experience. It's not a film that's actively trying to wreck you or tear you apart; there's no great tragedy in it. It's just a painfully honest and relatable movie. It relives once-serious high school dramas in such a pure way that you can't help but be hopeful and upset and crushed and wanting for everyone on screen.
Honestly, I needed to lie down after watching it. It is not a good date movie, or really a good anytime movie if you plan on doing anything else productive for the next several hours. I had to go home and eat some pizza.
Check out nine trailers from this week below.
A first look at Deadpool 2 was released this week, but naturally, it couldn't be anything so straightforward as a typical teaser trailer. Instead, you're looking at nearly two minutes of Ryan Reynolds doing his worst Bob Ross impression for the camera, with plenty of pop-culture references and crude jokes mixed in. The film comes out June 1st.
"From the director of San Andreas" is maybe all you need to know. And yes, it is based off the arcade game. The movie comes out April 20th.
Here's the first full-length trailer for The Chi, Showtime's ensemble drama about black residents of Chicago's South Side. The series is created by Lena Waithe, who played Denise on Master of None but was a writer for years before that, and it seems to be shooting for a balance between lighthearted and funny slice of life moments and the real and much darker problems, like police violence, that South Side residents have to deal with. The series starts January 7th.
Game of Thrones may be off the air, but HBO has found a reason to bring back Kit Harington. He's starring in a three-part miniseries about the Gunpowder Plot to blow up a house of the British Parliament in 1605 — you know, the whole Guy Fawkes, 5th of November thing. Harington doesn't play Fawkes, but instead stars as another plot conspirator, Robert Catesby, who he's apparently descendent from. The series starts December 18th.
This starts out looking like a typical horror film, but as the trailer goes on it reveals one neat twist: the family at the center of it has to remain as silent as possible, or else some sort of evil will come get them. It's a pretty simple premise, but it seems like it could lead to some unique scares. The film comes out April 6th.
This ridiculous-looking film feels a bit like a Wes Anderson movie without all the colors and symmetry and with the style of a 1970s crime drama. It comes from Finnish director Aki Kaurismäki and is about a Syrian refugee trying to get by in Helsinki and find his lost sister. I love what I'm seeing so far. It comes out December 1st in a limited opening.
FX's anthology crime series returns next month with an energetic and stylish new season based on the 1997 murder of fashion designer Gianni Versace. It seems like a big shift from season one's court drama, and that might just be a good thing — the advantage of having an ever-changing series is letting it change things up before the show gets tiring. The series returns January 17th.
Spike TV is being reinvented and rebranded as the Paramount Network, and with that comes a first foot in the door of Peak TV-quality dramas with Waco. The limited series stars Michael Shannon and Taylor Kitsch in a dramatized look at the religious cult at Waco. This trailer seems to be trying to draw the whole matter in a moral gray area. It starts January 24th.
Aka YouTube Disaster Clips: The Movie.


Apu from The Simpsons is a walking cartoon stereotype, but for nearly three decades he’s represented the South Asian community to Americans — a yogi with a Ph.D who’s also running the equivalent of a 7-Eleven. Stand-up comedian Hari Kondabolu is fighting to unseat Apu from his central position in the American cultural psyche. Kondabolu’s debut film The Problem with Apu is a 49-minute weird hybrid of comedy, documentary, and animated boxing match. As current societal attitudes shift toward established power structures, Kondabolu and others are edging for a reassessment of once beloved characters that are actually dehumanizing caricatures.
In the same vein, shows like Fresh off the Boat and Insecure are making the lives of minorities more mundane and mainstream, brushing off anachronisms like Long Duk Dong from Sixteen Candles and adding fresh, strong female relationships between black women. No showrunner has singled out a specter of the past so vehemently as Kondabolu does, however. Fueled by childhood scars and anger at being wronged, the comedian targets Hank Azaria, who voices Apu and who originally made the call to give the unnamed convenience store owner an Indian accent. The accent, Kondabolu argues, encouraged The Simpsons writers to go wild and give the character every hackneyed quality they perceive an Indian man might have.
Much of The Problem with Apu is spent tracking down Azaria’s agent and trying to set up an interview to hear what the man has to say to defend himself. When a response is not immediate, Kondabolu questions a Simpsons writer instead to figure out the origins of Apu. Kondabolu approaches Apu like a biographer profiling his subject, pulling out his dark secrets that average fans would never have guessed. For instance, from the Simpsons featurette interviews, Kondabolu finds that the cartoon is named after Bengali director Satyajit Ray’s Apu trilogy about a boy growing up as India modernizes. “His stories are about a multi-dimensional human being who grows living through pain, tragedy, and beauty. And to then have that name be associated with the Apu of the convenience store, of course, is such a huge diminishment,” Vogue film and TV critic John Powers tells Kondabolu in the film.
The comedian lays out a compelling case for why Apu’s fan base should disavow him: He was created by a room of white men solely to mock first-generation Indian immigrants running convenience stores, an easy and voiceless target that couldn’t necessarily fight back against that representation. Apu embodies every stereotype about Indians and leans in to these stereotypes even when they contradict each other: Apu has a Ph.D, yet he’s also running a convenience store. Even his origins are blurry, lending the character a monolithic quality and a sense that the writers really didn’t care about getting his heritage right; Apu is at times Bengali, South Indian, possibly Tamil, and Kannadigas.
Despite the current trend of shows adding greater representation for minorities, Hollywood’s lack of diversity remains a persistent problem. A report last week by Color of Change, a racial justice organization, found that over 90 percent of showrunners are white, leading to more roles for minorities as “‘cardboard’ characters, and at worst, unfair, inaccurate, and dehumanizing portrayals.” The difference now compared to even a decade ago is that we have artists like Kondabolu, Jordan Peele and Aziz Ansari challenging the status quo with films and shows like Get Out and Master of None.
In The Problem with Apu, Kondabolu melds his standup-like narrations of his investigation with social commentary from South Asian American actors, bystanders, and even EGOT winner Whoopi Goldberg. By drawing on so many voices, Kondabolu avoids the problem of becoming one man speaking for many people as Apu has represented a whole community. Most South Asian actors speaking in the film agree that they’ve been damaged by Apu in some way. Many are commonly asked to put on “the Apu accent,” and if they don’t comply, they would lose the job to the next willing South Asian actor. Even Ansari recalled men driving by him and his dad, shouting, “Hey, I need to get a Slurpee, can you tell me where the Kwik-E-Mart is? Thank you; come again!” The more overlapping voices Kondabolu adds to his indictment of Apu, the bigger the hole he digs for the character, and for Azaria. Azaria has only spoken publicly once about the controversy over Apu, in a 2013 Huffington Post article, where he said his only regret was that, “I didn’t have a chance to spend more time doing what I would consider a more perfected Indian dialect.”
As the old gatekeepers in media resisting change fall one by one, Hollywood may be transforming, although we’re still dealing with frequent reminders of the past. Returning to his standup origins, Kondabolu ends his film on a punchline: “The Simpsons is like your racist grandfather. And if he can’t change, maybe it’s time for him to die. And you can just remember the good stuff about him.”
The Problem with Apu premieres on truTV on November 19th at 10PM ET/PT and will be available on VOD on November 20th.



There’s something impressive about taking cold showers. It summons up images of military discipline, and people claim that it makes you healthier. But how much of that is true?
In my quest to find out, I came across a 2016 paper published in PLoS One on how cold showers affected health and work. The researchers recruited about 3,000 participants who, like most of us, were not used to taking cold showers. These participants were assigned to four groups. Every day for 30 consecutive days, the first group had to end their normal, blessedly warm shower with a cold shower for 30 seconds. The second group had to do this for 60 seconds, the third for 90 seconds, and the fourth was the control group that did not suffer for science.
The participants had to time themselves, too, so if they couldn’t complete the full 30–90 seconds, they had to record how long they had subjected themselves to the water. (Keep in mind that this happened in the Netherlands, in January.) After the 30 days, the participants spent another month showering however they wanted.
During this time, volunteers were asked to take a wide variety of surveys. At the end of the period, the researchers discovered an interesting finding: the people who had taken the cold showers took 29 percent fewer sick days than the others. But, crucially, they didn’t actually feel ill (as self-reported) any less often.
People who spent two months taking cold showers were just as likely to get sick, but much more likely to still go to work if they were sick, possibly because they had grown used to being uncomfortable. So in the end, maybe there is some truth to the praises of cold showers. Cold showers probably don’t make you healthier; they just make you suck it up.


Tesla's had a big week so far with the launch of its ultra fast supercar and its new electric semi truck. But what's the biggest announcement for us here at Circuit Breaker? I'm glad you asked. The company, along with all its other news, also launched a portable Tesla-themed battery that can charge iPhones, iPads, or any other device that takes a microUSB.
The 3,350mAh battery pack is modeled after Tesla’s Supercharger monument at the Tesla Design Studio, which you'd probably recognize if you live and breathe the Tesla lifestyle. You would also probably the person interested in a Tesla-branded charging pack, so that works out. It costs $45 and, unfortunately, it’s already sold out.
The company also sells a desktop Supercharger that features a USB port for any charging cable. It costs $45 as well and is also sold out. With that said, you can always make your own charger. You just need a 3D printer and some motivation.



Something that often bothers me about sci-fi is the loner inventor trope. A guy in a garage builds a robot, or AI, or frequently both that are somehow decades beyond the technology of his day, and all the wild implications of his vast technological leap are the fuel for the next two and a half hours of popcorn entertainment.
But the latest video from Boston Dynamics is the closest equivalent I've ever witnessed IRL. Sure, it’s the achievement of an entire company, and they’re doing it on YouTube for everyone to see, not in a basement. But a backflip?
It’s hard to even appreciate how hard this is for robots to do, because it’s hard to appreciate how difficult walking still is for humanoids. I wrote a whole piece about the problem of building walking robots back in 2011 — it wasn’t pretty back then, and it’s still a challenge for most full-sized humanoids.
A backflip though?
It's a barely-believable jump forward for the state of the art. It's astonishing. It's a moon landing, basically, except instead of all of the people of Earth gathering around tube televisions to witness it, it just popped up on our social feeds yesterday afternoon without warning.
Let's get a bit of historical context. Eleven years ago we were laughing as Honda's Asimo robot fell off a set of stairs.
In 2015, here's how far we'd come:
Yeah, we were challenging humanoid robots with much more complicated, dynamic, and demanding tasks than a staged ascent of a perfectly level set of shallow steps. But if you asked me, "How long until these robots are doing backflips?" in 2015, after a weekend of watching DARPA pratfalls, I would've frowned and said something like, "Ugh."
Would we have to develop some new form of organic mechanisms, more akin to the human body, to get the power / weight ratio just right? Would we have to rebuild software engineering from scratch to combine realtime responsiveness with machine learning complexity? Would we end up in some economic recession or war that would require the companies and institutions investing in humanoid robotics to stop wasting money and just ship something boring and useful?
I guess I could have said, "Maybe a decade. We have to figure out jumping first, and also running and walking." But "a decade" in the technology world means, "I literally have no idea."
And I guess I would've been right about one thing: I had no idea.
In 2016, not too long after the DARPA challenge, where many of the robots in the competition were based on Boston Dynamics' best-in-class Atlas humanoid, Boston Dynamics hit us with a new YouTube video: "Atlas, The Next Generation." The video showcased a much lighter and more agile version of the robot opening a door, walking through snow, picking up boxes, and getting hit with a hockey stick for no reason. It was a big improvement over the previous generation.
"When will it do backflips, Paul?"
"Um, a decade?"
Earlier this year, Boston Dynamics introduced an all-new robot called Handle with a four foot vertical jump. But it was a wheeled robot, and while impressive, wheels are vastly simpler than biped locomotion. What Handle proved is that Boston Dynamics could blast enough power through its hydraulics to generate the necessary force for lift-off. So all we needed was a few years of software improvements to get the balancing algorithm just right, and we could finally have jumping robots.
But yesterday, Atlas jumped on video. It leaped from box to box like a gazelle. It did a 180. And it did a backflip.
A humanoid strong enough to jump like that is capable of any "typical" human locomotion. Stairs, curbs, uneven ground, accidental jostling, sitting down, standing up, getting in and out of cars, subway lurches... all moves which are frequently performed by humans who can't land a backflip, and who get mad if you shove them with a hockey stick.
A backflip is a marvel of mechanical engineering and software control. It's a statement of power and poise. It's bonkers.
I'm certain there's still much more to do on the software side. Performing powerful jumps in a controlled, measured environment is easier than doing dynamic, improvisational parkour. And then humanoids still have to be taught how to do something useful with their newfound physical capabilities. Also, other companies will have to catch up with Boston Dynamics — just because this is possible it doesn’t mean it’s easy. We’re still a ways away from having backflipping robots as next door neighbors.
But I think we're in a new robotic age now. There was a time before Atlas could do backflips, back when robots were for factories, bomb disposal, vacuuming, and the occasional gimmick, and none of the useful ones were humanoids. Now we're living in an era where humanoid robots are apparently as agile as we are. So what will they be used for? It’s time to get out the popcorn.


Update November 17th, 4:15PM ET :  On Thursday, SpaceX stated that it had decided to stand down from the launch as it reviewed data of a fairing test the company did for another customer. SpaceX said it still had the opportunity to launch on Friday, but that the launch might not happen depending on how long it takes the company to review the test data. Now it looks like SpaceX won’t be launching in the next couple days, and the company will come up with a new launch date soon.
Sometime in the next few days, SpaceX is set to launch perhaps its most secretive payload yet: a classified government satellite built by defense contractor Northrop Grumman. The purpose of the mission, codenamed Zuma, is essentially unknown. It’s unclear what kind of spacecraft is going up, or which government agency the launch is for. All we really know is that Zuma is scheduled to go into lower Earth orbit on top of a Falcon 9 rocket out of Cape Canaveral, Florida.
The Zuma mission only became public in October, when NASASpaceflight.com reported on documents that SpaceX had filed with the Federal Communications Commission, requesting authorization for a mysterious “Mission 1390.” A few days later, several news outlets confirmed that the flight, also called Zuma, would launch a Northrop Grumman-made payload. The contractor had been assigned by the US government to find a rocket for the launch, and Northrop Grumman ultimately picked the Falcon 9.
“Northrop Grumman realizes that this is monumental responsibility and have taken great care to ensure the most affordable and lowest risk scenario for Zuma,” Lon Rains, communications director for Northrop Grumman’s Space Systems Division, said in a statement to The Verge. Northrop Grumman has not released any further information on the spacecraft.
It’s not the first time that SpaceX has launched secretive payloads into orbit. After receiving certification in 2015 to launch military satellites, the company has already launched two classified payloads, and is slated to launch even more over the next couple of years. However, all of SpaceX’s missions for the military have known customers, such as the US Air Force or the National Reconnaissance Office. So far, no government office has claimed the Zuma mission. And the NRO, which usually announces the launches of its spy spacecraft, said that Zuma doesn’t belong to the agency.
Apart from its super unique payload, this SpaceX launch is otherwise routine. When the Falcon 9 flies, it will attempt to land at SpaceX’s Landing Zone 1, located at the Cape. If that touchdown is successful, it’ll mark the eighth ground recovery for the company, and the 20th landing SpaceX has pulled off to date. Zuma also marks SpaceX’s 17th mission in 2017, the most the company has ever done in a single year, and more than double the number of missions in 2016. It’s possible the company could make an even 20 launches, if the new Falcon Heavy — an upgraded, heavy-lift version of the Falcon 9 — flies before the new year.
When SpaceX okays the launch, the Zuma mission is slated to take off from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. Initially, the launch was supposed to go up on Wednesday  sometime inside a launch window from 8PM to 10PM ET. But SpaceX has repeatedly changed the day of the mission since then. The first delay was given without a reason. “Both Falcon 9 and the payload remain healthy,” SpaceX said in a statement on Wednesday. “Teams will use the extra day to conduct some additional mission assurance work in advance of launch.” On Thursday, the company announced another delay due to a review of the fairing data, and no official date has been confirmed for now.
SpaceX’s live coverage of the launch usually starts 15 minutes prior to takeoff. Given the flight’s secrecy, chances are the live broadcast won’t follow the satellite’s deployment. Check back whenever this flight gets a date to watch as much of this mission as we can live.




It’s hard to imagine a worse time for a Punisher TV show. A little over a month after one of the worst mass murders in American history, in a country where mass shootings come at the rate of roughly one per day, the arrival of Marvel Comics’ favorite gun-wielding, spree-killing angry white man on Netflix is awkward, to say the least.
The Punisher has always been an antihero, a not-quite-good guy with a gun whose motivation for murder is initially sympathetic: bad guys killed his family, and justice has to be dispensed. When the Netflix series begins, however, he’s fresh from completing his quest for vengeance, and everyone on his original hit list is pushing daisies. If this were a movie, we’d be at the end, and it’d be time for Frank Castle (Jon Bernthal) to put the guns down, get a lot of therapy, and move on with his life. But he can’t, because then Netflix and Marvel wouldn’t have a show, so he has to keep killing.
To their minor credit, showrunner Steve Lightfoot (a Hannibal writer-producer) and his team are smart enough to realize they have to say something about gun violence. Unfortunately, they never quite figure out what that should be.
Like numerous first-person shooter games that punch above their weight class, The Punisher tries to transcend its glorified violence by glazing the story with a thin sheen of social consciousness. It feints at addressing issues like PTSD, making America great again, and the experiences of veterans returning from war zones abroad. One of Castle’s friends, Billy Russo (Ben Barnes) sets up Blackwater-esque military contracts; another, Curtis Hoyle (Jason R. Moore), runs a support group for veterans. But the show never reckons with deeper issues so much as it mentions them between fight scenes. It’s like tossing a thinking-face emoji into a gun fight, and hoping it comes across as self-aware and wise. It doesn’t. No matter how many sad faces Frank Castle makes about his trauma, The Punisher can never escape the terrible gravity that its most basic purpose is inviting viewers to enjoy watching an angry man murder as many people as he can.
It’s impossible to divorce The Punisher from guns; they are his costume, his origin story, his superpower. Lightfoot and his directors know this: the opening credits start with a slow-motion shot of a bullet firing, smoke billowing out from the barrel as the camera caresses the contours of various guns with an almost-pornographic delight. For those who might be slow on the uptake, the credits conclude with an arsenal of weapons slowly coalescing into the Punisher’s infamous skull logo. The Punisher equals guns. Got it.
This time around, Frank’s targets are corrupt military officials who are covering up war crimes in Afghanistan, like the so-called Agent Orange (Paul Schulze). The shadowy conspiracy spirals out to envelop former NSA analyst David Lieberman (Ebon Moss-Bachrach), Homeland Security agent Dina Madani (Amber Rose Revah) and everyone’s favorite Marvel Cinematic Universe journalist, Karen Page (Deborah Ann Woll).
Bernthal and the rest of the cast acquit themselves well with the material they’re given, but they aren’t given much. While Castle has a personal stake in this new drama — he served in the unit responsible for the war crimes — this series also marks the moment when he crosses the line from avenging his family to thinking he should just kill people in general, if he thinks they’re bad enough.
Gruesome revenge dramas have a long and illustrious history, from Shakespeare’s Titus Andronicus to Quentin Tarantino’s Kill Bill. At their best, they explore the primal human desire to hurt those who have hurt us, and how this ethos usually multiplies tragedies rather than bringing them to an end. A smarter show might use the Punisher’s penchant for violence and guns to explore the folly of treating them as simple solutions, or consider how Frank Castle’s lethal war on crime might be feeding the cycle of violence, rather than extinguishing it. Unfortunately, that’s not on offer.
Instead, The Punisher returns to the well of the more common and exploitative form of the revenge story, one that imagines horrible crimes and injustices in order to justify the violence fans want to see on screen, and to absolve their consciences for wanting to see it. Each cruelty and mustache-twist of the villain stokes is calculated to enrage and horrify, until knives or bullets sliding into bodies is finally experienced as pleasure and relief.
Gerry Conway, who created the Punisher in 1974, originally conceived of him as a throwaway character who would try to murder Spider-Man for a few issues. But the character’s brutal “ends justify the means” approach made him a fan favorite in his own right. Conway, who filed for conscientious-objector status during the Vietnam War, finds the lionization of the character uncomfortable, particularly by the American soldiers fighting ISIS abroad who adopted the character’s symbol. “In my mind he’s not a good guy,” Conway told Time. He thinks that what makes the Punisher compelling to some people is precisely what makes him so disconcerting to others: his ability to shoot his way past the moral complexities of a situation and never look back. “Here’s a guy that never questions himself,” says Conway. “He never asks, ‘am I doing the right thing?’ I think there is something really attractive about that to people.”
Although lauded as a badass by fans who appreciate the moral simplicity and confidence of rampant, uncaring destruction, Frank Castle is better described as a tragic character, a deeply traumatized man unable to stop killing not just because of his own fictional compulsions, but because the popular mythology of the Punisher requires it. If he were allowed to heal from the wounds of his family’s deaths or his military service, he would be a different character entirely. So he’s doomed, like a blood-drenched Sisyphus cursed to push a murder-boulder up a hill forever.
In that regard, he shares a surprising amount of thematic overlap with Batman, a similarly vengeful crime-fighting vigilante who can’t ever end his protracted crusade against wrongdoers. Both characters had their families brutally gunned down, and they responded by creating alter egos who could dispense the justice they never received from the system. But they’re most interesting in the places where they diverge. Where Batman responded to his trauma by becoming fervently anti-gun, Frank Castle swung in the other direction, by arming himself to the teeth and firing bullets in the direction of anyone he deems worthy of death. There’s a simple reason for this, from a narrative perspective: guns are expressly designed to kill. If you don’t want your vigilante hero to be a murderer, don’t give him a gun. Conversely, if you do want to see him murder people, give him lots of guns.
And he certainly has murdered a lot of people. The Punisher isn’t the first member of the superhero set to wield guns or take lives, but as is often the case with gun violence, the issue is a matter of scale. Marvel Comics editor Steven Wacker estimated earlier in 2017 that Punisher has killed 48,502 people since his first appearance, a death toll that would likely make him the worst mass murderer in history. That’s more than 16,000 gravestones for every member of his family who was killed, a vast overreaction by even the most vengeful standard.
Much like Batman will brood forever in his underground man-cave, and Spider-Man will swing forever through the streets of New York City making quips, the Punisher will always kill, because that’s what he was made for. In that way, he is very much like the weapons he carries, constructed for a singular and terrible purpose: death. It’s no surprise that he delivers on the promise, or that viewers might find something exciting and even heroic about a working-class man wielding these tools of terror on behalf of underdogs and little guys. It's hard to think of a Marvel character that better channels the mentality at the heart of the American gun epidemic; it's too bad The Punisher has so little to say about it.
The Punisher debuts on Netflix on November 17th, 2017.


Republic Wireless, a popular MVNO that runs off of Sprint and T-Mobile, offers, among other things, some pretty comprehensive Wi-Fi calling features that caught the eye of Walt Mossberg last year.
So now the company is doing something a little differently for its first hardware product, a smart speakerphone called Anywhere HQ. According to Republic’s website, Anywhere HQ syncs with your regular phone number and allows you to make and receive calls.
There isn’t a ton of information on the device out yet, but it seems that the Anywhere HQ consists of a cordless phone that lives on a dock that can also function as a speakerphone using a speaker on the back. The page also says that the speaker will include some kind of smart assistant with voice controls, although Republic isn’t offering any details on that beyond the fact that you’ll be able to start calls through voice commands.
Anywhere HQ is designed to be an extension of the existing Republic Anywhere service, which allows users to text and call from iOS, Android, Mac, and Windows PC applications in addition to their phones.
It’s still pretty early days for the Anywhere HQ; Republic is opening the speaker up to its Republic Wireless Labs test program for users to help improve the device, and there’s no price or release date announced. But in a world where companies like Google and Amazon are struggling to figure out how to make cellphone integration work with Alexa and Assistant, Republic leveraging its existing cellular knowledge could be an interesting edge.


This week on The Vergecast, Nilay, Paul, and Dieter run through a few things in the tech world that happened this week, like reviews for Google’s Pixel Buds and Microsoft’s Surface Book 2, and the announcement of the OnePlus 5T.
Also, Lauren Goode stops by the show to talk about season 2 of her video series Next Level, which takes a closer look at technology's impact on the human experience. This week’s episode featured DJI's Aeroscope technology that can track rogue drones.
There’s a lot more in between all of that — like Paul’s weekly segment “Robot dogs are people, too” — so listen to it all, and you’ll get it all.
02:50 - Microsoft Surface Book 2 review
13:12 - Google Pixel Buds review
25:40 - Next Level season 2 episode 2
47:54 - iPhone X: a few weeks later
1:01:04 - OnePlus 5T announced with bigger screen, new camera system, and a headphone jack
1:05:15 - Paul’s weekly segment “Robot dogs are people, too”
If you enjoyed this podcast and want to hear more audio from The Verge, well here you go. We have a new show Why’d You Push That Button, hosted by Kaitlyn Tiffany and Ashley Carman, which you can subscribe to right now! This week’s episode is about stalking people on Venmo.
You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by The Verge’s Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts.


Doubts that Elon Musk would be unable to put on a raucous reveal party were put to rest late Thursday night. Amid Tesla’s “production hell” this fall, the automaker delivered two beacons of hope for the California-based company’s future.
The Tesla Semi drew excitement from the crowd at the Hawthorne, California facility, as people eagerly waited for Musk to emerge from the big truck. But the surprise showing of the second-generation Tesla Roadster caused explosive cheers from the second its headlights switched on.
The excitement served as a distraction from the company’s financial and production problems for the moment. (Musk was also not nearly as energetic as he was back at the Model 3’s delivery event in July.) But his spirits were unquestionably lifted as hundreds of beaming Tesla fans projected their hope for the company’s ambitious future plans.
The Tesla Semi truck’s claimed range comfortably beat early expectations. At 500 miles, it’s roughly twice what Reuters claimed in August. It’s also more than double what Cummins and Daimler have promised so far in their planned electric trucks. That figure, and the promise of solar-powered “Megachargers” to give 400 miles of range in 30 minutes — supplementing the existing Supercharger network — should help put to rest concerns that an electric truck is impractical for hauling outside of cities.
In another attempt to put fleet managers at ease, Musk said the semi could go for 1 million miles without a breakdown, which will undoubtedly test the company’s reputation for quality. The botched launch of the Model X and its elaborate Falcon Doors, as well as reports of Model S and Model 3 cars having build-quality problems, could scare off customers in an industry that likely holds reliability and low ownership costs higher than car buyers. Yet, that hasn’t deterred a number of fleet operators —some of whom were in the audience Thursday night — from putting down preorders for a truck that isn’t even planned to start production until 2019.
While the Tesla Semi is equipped with Enhanced Autopilot, Tesla says it isn’t fully self-driving, and has moved away from claims of a self-driving truck. In fact, it spent a lot of time talking about how driver-centric it was with its center-mounted seat and space for people inside the cab. Part of that may be a backpedaling of Autopilot’s ambitions following a stern government ruling earlier this year. It may also be an appeal to the truck-driving industry in its protection of jobs.
As energized as Musk was about the semi, the whole audience was decisively more interested in the surprise at the end of the show.
The second-generation Roadster wasn’t completely unexpected, though: Musk has hinted at a revival of the sports car that established his company’s reputation for performance-oriented electric cars. That first effort, built with heavy assistance from Lotus Cars in Britain, however, has become somewhat of a distant memory since production ended in 2012. Now, Tesla wants it to be a homegrown halo car to follow up its mainstream lineup.
Well, at least what Tesla hopes its lineup will look like in 2020. You can reserve a Tesla Roadster now, with a $50,000 deposit on its estimated $200,000 base price, or pick up one of the 1,000 more powerful Founders Series cars by paying the full $250,000 now.
Let’s be honest: this is a fundraising drive for Tesla’s most loyal, trusting, and wealthiest customers. But it also has all the things that make people dream of supercars. After all the tire smoke had cleared, Musk boasted of the Roadster’s 0–60 mph time of 1.9 seconds and top speed of at least 250 mph. It’s well on its way to making it the fastest car in the world.
But there’s another big claim about the new Tesla Roadster: its 620-mile range. Musk claims that’s Los Angeles to San Francisco and back in one charge, a significant milestone for an electric car. Even most gasoline-fueled cars can’t travel that far without stopping at a pump. While the first Roadster proved electric cars could be quick and striking to look at (even with a relatively small range), the new Roadster aims to ask why the internal combustion engine needs to be around anymore.
Of course, unanswered questions loom ominously above both the Semi and the Roadster, like “how much is that truck going to be?” and “who’s going to wait three years for a Roadster?” Then there’s the whole issue of the Model 3 and when its problems will be ironed out, especially to those who were among the first in line for a car promised to be churning out of the factory at a rate of 5,000 per week at this point. There’s also the fact that Tesla is burning cash at a staggering rate right now.
But last night’s event at least gave visual clues about the company Musk wants Tesla to be at the start of the new decade. There’s a fun and functional side with both the Roadster and Semi, and further proof Tesla wants to be in every corner of the transportation world.



China-based gadget maker Xiaomi is bringing more of its products to the US this week. Two headphone models, a 10,000mAh Mi Power Bank Pro, a 360-degree camera, and a robot coding kit are all coming to Amazon. This continues the company's slow march toward wider device releases in the US.
Xiaomi currently sells its Android TV set-top box, Mi TV, at Walmart locations around the US, and previously launched items in its Mi online store for the US, including a fitness tracker, battery packs, and headphones. Those devices sold out within 30 minutes.
The Amazon-listed battery pack and 360-degree camera are already temporarily unavailable, while both of the headphones don't go on sale until November 24th. I'd assume these will sell out too, given that everyone needs headphones and apparently everyone also has a desire to buy from Xiaomi. The Mi Headphones fit over the ear and cost $129.99, while the Mi In-Ear Headphones Pro cost $25.99. I wish Xiaomi had instead decided to sell USB-C headphones or wireless ones in the US, but this is a start. Maybe its smartphones will eventually make their way stateside, too.


I’ve been using the iPhone X for about a week, and, like Nilay Patel said in his review: “The good news is that Face ID generally works great. The bad news is that sometimes it doesn’t.”
I’ve been trying to figure out what to do in those cases when it doesn’t. And, thanks to a complaint on Twitter (which, as I always say, is what Twitter is for), I have an answer.
But first, my overall take is that when Face ID works, it is magically better than Touch ID. Your phone just feels like it’s unlocked all the time, without requiring you to think about its security at all. However, the problem is that when it doesn’t work, it’s not super clear what you’re supposed to do about it.
When Touch ID fails, you just try it a second time. You reposition your thumb or you wipe your thumb or you say “screw it” and punch in the passcode. When Face ID fails, you reposition the entire phone or you just swipe up on the home bar thing. Usually, that gets it to catch.
But my particularly weird problem is that I really, really like the feature that hides notifications on the lock screen until Face ID recognizes you. But when it’s sitting on your desk (or better yet, your angled wireless charger), sometimes it won’t. At that point, I want to see my notifications, but Face ID isn’t catching. So, what next?
Me trying to get FaceID to try again pic.twitter.com/P4RhNP1WnW
I just want to see what my notifications are without picking up my phone or doing something awkward. What do I do? The iPhone doesn’t tell me.
Luckily, Alex Anderson on Twitter has told me. Give the home bar a little wiggle. Drag it up like about a quarter-inch and then push it down again. Don’t drag it up far enough to unlock the phone, just do a tiny wiggle. Face ID will then give it another shot and — by this point — you’re probably giving it the proper attention to make it work this time.
Grab the home indicator and slide up slightly then back down. Retries FaceID without unlocking
Is this a silly problem? Yes. But it’s also a thing I do hundreds of times a day, so I want it to work. Phones should be accommodating to their users, adjusting to them instead of vice versa. Sometimes it feels like the iPhone X doesn’t do that.
Apple has made the best-case scenario of unlocking your phone way better with Face ID, but good software design should guide the user toward what to do when things don’t go exactly as planned. I wish the iPhone X was as good at helping me figure out how to use it in those cases as my pal Alex on Twitter was.


Starting today, the first thing you’ll see when you walk into the Scotiabank Theatre in downtown Toronto — even before the giant Klingon Bird of Prey dangling above the escalators — is a state-of-the-art virtual reality arcade. You’ll probably even hear a few of the telltale shrieks that come from someone’s first VR experience. Today, IMAX is opening the latest of its IMAX VR centers with its first location in Canada. The launch follows VR installations in theaters in Shanghai and New York, as well as a flagship location in Los Angeles that debuted back in January.
According to Mark Welton, president of IMAX Theaters, the current locations have been successful at capturing audiences who are already going to the movies. But with its central location and prominence within the theater, the new Toronto arcade could represent something different: an experience where people go explicitly to check out the latest in virtual reality, as opposed to simply jumping in after they watch a movie. “I think this site is going to be different,” says Welton.
Design-wise, the Toronto arcade is similar to the existing IMAX VR locations. It features 10 pods, which look like vaguely futuristic cubicles that are empty aside from the necessary VR gear. The pods are designed to be modular; currently they’re small cubes, but walls can be removed to create larger spaces for more free-flowing VR installations. The current slate of VR experiences features a number of familiar faces, like the shooter John Wick Chronicles, sci-fi co-op game Raw Data, Ubisoft’s Eagle Flight, and the team-based Star Trek: Bridge Crew.
Most games use the HTC Vive, while a few utilize the fledgling StarVR headset, which features a greater 210-degree field of view. Currently, only John Wick supports StarVR, but there’s also an experience based on The Mummy in the works. Most of the experiences also utilize some form of force feedback — either through a chair or Subpac rumble backpacks — and IMAX says that it’s experimenting with potentially adding smell for a full “4D” experience.
Along with the new arcade, today also marks the launch of a new collection of Justice League experiences. The new Justice League VR game — which at launch is exclusive to IMAX — lets you play as each member of the superhero team in different scenarios, and I was able to try three of them. As the Flash, you run through a subway tunnel, dodging obstacles by stepping left and right. You can also drive the Batmobile, using the HTC Vive’s motion controllers to turn the steering wheel and fire machine guns at a seemingly never-ending onslaught of enemy vehicles. As Aquaman, meanwhile, you swim down a trench and stab a giant sea creature with a trident. Each is exciting while being simple enough you can understand in a single, short playthrough. They’re also mostly on rails so that it’s impossible to get lost.
The Justice League experience came about through IMAX’s VR fund, which will see the company co-finance an expected 25 VR experiences over the next three years. The idea is to partner with prominent names in the film space — so far the likes of Justin Lin and the Russo brothers have signed up — to create exclusive experiences that make sense in a theater environment. IMAX is also working with Google to develop what it describes as a “cinema-grade VR camera” for these filmmakers to utilize. It’s expected to launch in 2018.
Though it’s been close to a year since the first IMAX VR location debuted, the project is still very much a work in progress. Welton describes it as being in a “pilot phase.” Certain elements, like pricing and content, are still in flux and regularly change. At the Toronto location, for instance, you can buy tickets for each individual experience, which range for $8 to $15 and last an average 10 minutes each. Meanwhile, other locations include an option to buy a ticket that gets you an unlimited amount of play within a fixed period of time.
The team at IMAX is also still figuring out what, exactly, theatergoers want out of a VR experience. According to Welton, over the first 10 months of the project people have gravitated to more social experiences; not just ones that are fun to play together, but also ones that are entertaining to watch as a group. (The VR pods feature low walls on one side so it’s easy to see people flailing about while pretending to be The Flash.) IMAX has also introduced a new color-coded system that gives you a better idea of what kind of VR experience you’re in for when you buy a ticket. Each individual experience is given a handful of qualifiers — such as “casual,” “action,” “physically active,” or “age restrictive” — so you know what you’re spending $10 on.
Despite its prominent location, the new Toronto VR arcade doesn’t necessarily represent a future direction for these installations. Instead, Welton says, IMAX will be tailoring each arcade to its location’s specific needs. There are plans for six more VR setups in theaters across the globe; an upcoming Manchester location, for instance, will feature a VR arcade in a prominent shopping plaza across the street from a theater. The idea is to try different things, and see what works. “We’re changing constantly,” says Welton.


Hot on the heels of Tesla’s big event last night, Walmart says it has preordered 15 of the electric automaker’s new semi trucks, according to CNBC. The deal was likely in the works before Tesla unveiled its new truck to the public, but interest from the world’s biggest retailer in battery-powered transport is still a huge boost of confidence for Elon Musk and his mission to electrify the industry.
Update: Wal-Mart says it’s preordered 15 of Tesla’s new electric tractor trailers https://t.co/hv1SaZlyNb
The pilot is planned for the US and Canada. Five of the preordered vehicles will be for Walmart’s US business, and 10 will be for its Canadian routes, the company said. Walmart's fleet has about 6,000 trucks.
"We have a long history of testing new technology – including alternative-fuel trucks – and we are excited to be among the first to pilot this new heavy-duty electric vehicle," the company said in a statement. “We believe we can learn how this technology performs within our supply chain, as well as how it could help us meet some of our long-term sustainability goals, such as lowering emissions.” (A Tesla spokesperson declined to comment on its customers.)
Musk said the truck would enter production in 2019. Trucking industry veterans are watching closely to see how Tesla addresses some of the big hurdles in its path, such as per-mile cost, gaps in EV charging infrastructure, and maintenance issues.
Walmart wasn’t the only one to preorder Tesla’s new truck right out of the gate. JB Hunt Transport Services, a 56-year-old company based in Arkansas, said it had reserved “multiple” new Tesla trucks as well. "We believe electric trucks will be most beneficial on local and dray routes, and we look forward to utilizing this new, sustainable technology," John Roberts, president and chief executive officer, said in a statement.



Virgin Orbit — one of the Virgin Group’s three primary space companies — has scored a deal with the Department of Defense, agreeing to launch experimental satellites for the agency on the company’s future LauncherOne rocket. The mission, slated for 2019, marks the first national security agreement for the private spaceflight company.
While its sister company Virgin Galactic is focused on space tourism, Virgin Orbit’s goal is to launch small satellites with its LauncherOne. The rocket is designed to take off from the air, after riding to an altitude of 35,000 feet under the wing of a Boeing 747-41R aircraft called Cosmic Girl. After dropping from the wing, Launcher One will fire its engine, carrying its payloads into orbit. Ultimately, the rocket can carry up to 1,100 pounds, perfect for small- to medium-sized satellites.
Virgin Orbit already has a number of customers lined up to fly on LauncherOne, from commercial small satellite operators to NASA. But the venture is also interested in launching national security satellites. That’s why it recently formed a subsidiary known as VOX Space, aimed at setting up deals with the defense and intelligence community. “Anything where the payload itself needs to be handled in a secure facility, they will be involved in mission planning,” Will Pomerantz, vice president for special projects at Virgin Orbit, tells The Verge of VOX Space. “They’re there to keep both the physical stuff and data safe and secure.”
But first, Virgin Orbit needs to finish testing its rocket. The first complete LauncherOne test vehicle was recently transported from the company’s Long Beach factory to its testing facility in Mojave. “We’re really excited our first rocket has left the building,” says Pomerantz. “It puts us another step closer to our first flight.”
In Mojave, the vehicle will only be tested on the ground. Ultimately, the company plans to build around five LauncherOnes for testing over the next few months, Pomerantz says. In the meantime, the company has built most of its first orbital vehicle, which could launch for the first time early next year. If that launch is a success, Virgin Orbit will start putting customers on the next flights, according to Pomerantz.
Virgin Orbit’s LauncherOne program may also soon benefit from the Virgin Group’s recent deal with Saudi Arabia, which agreed to invest $1 billion in the company’s space ventures. The deal is still waiting approval by the US government, and it’s unclear how much of the investment Virgin Orbit will receive. But that much money could really help speed up the LauncherOne program — and make the vehicle active sooner than later.


The first teaser trailer has dropped for the highly anticipated Deadpool 2. The trailer opens with Deadpool (Ryan Reynolds) dressed in a collared shirt and curly wig, spoofing Bob Ross’ The Joy of Painting, except it’s called “Gettin’ Wet on Wet with Deadpool 2.” He’s seen puttering around, muttering about the colors he’s using in his painting (which include “mennen black,” “box office gold,” “doc brown,” “pretty n’ pink,” “silverlicious,” “yellow snow,” “red dit,” and “Betty White”). “God I love cocaine,” he remarks to a painting of a snowy mountain range that suddenly appears after he haphazardly brushes the canvas.
The video then cuts to a 10-second montage of moments in the upcoming film. The fleeting scenes feature Dopinder (Karan Soni), the taxi driver from the first movie; Negasonic Teenage Warhead (Brianna Hildebrand) in the iconic yellow-and-black X-Men suit giving someone the finger and generally looking pretty badass; and teasers of new characters, including Zazie Beetz’s Domino, and a new character played by Julian Dennison. It’s literally a blink-and-you’ll-miss-it situation, as the montage is cut so quickly, but it’s worth watching a few times if you’re curious about what the next movie will be like.
Deadpool is up to his usual antics: there’s fire, guns, a truck ploughing into something, rain, explosions, and Deadpool sitting up from a coffin. It all looks pretty promising. Deadpool 2 will hit theaters on June 1st, 2018.



For the first time, scientists have confirmed a diagnosis of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) — a neurological disease linked to head injuries from sports like football — in a living person. Until now, we’ve only been able to diagnose CTE in dead patients. Finding the disease while the patient is still alive could help scientists find a way to treat it.
CTE develops from repeated hits to the head and has been linked to severe memory loss, depression, and dementia. It’s been found in 99 percent of the donated brains of NFL players. In a study published in the journal Neurosurgery, researchers found a telltale sign of CTE, a specific protein, in the brains of 14 retired NFL players who underwent a brain scan. Now that one of the players has died and doctors have been able to take a closer look at his brain, they have confirmed the CTE diagnosis.
Many former National Football League players like Aaron Hernandez and Junior Seau have been found to have the progressive brain disease. Last year, the NFL reached a billion-dollar settlement, the largest in sports history, over a lawsuit from former players who suffered concussions and now have severe neurological diseases like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrig’s disease).
The subject of the paper was former NFL player Fred McNeill, according to CNN. McNeill played 12 seasons in the National Football League for the Minnesota Vikings, reporting one concussion. But by the time he was 59, McNeill was already experiencing serious problems with his motor skills, and so he sat for the brain scan. Scientists found increased levels of certain proteins in his brain, including the tau protein, which has been linked to Alzheimer’s. After McNeill died two years ago, at 63, detailed brain-tissue analysis confirmed that his brain had other physical signs of CTE, suggesting that the tau protein is linked to the disease. A study from September suggested that the levels of another protein, called CCL11, may also be used to diagnose CTE in living patients.
Right now, the data on CTE is skewed. Being limited to donated brains means scientists are studying the brains of people whose relatives probably already suspected that something was wrong. One study, for example, showed that playing high school football, was not linked to cognitive problems later in life. So being able to diagnose people while they’re still alive could tell us a lot about how common CTE really is, and it could be crucial for developing treatment for players while they’re alive.
More studies are needed to confirm this method, according to the researchers, and some scientists are skeptical. Lili-Naz Hazrati, a neuroscience researcher at Toronto’s Hospital for Sick Children, told the Chicago Tribune that tau can be found in healthy brains, too. Having a robust way of detecting CTE may still be far off, but we may be one step closer. And if this pans out, it could be a game-changer for athletes.


MoviePass, the subscription movie ticketing service, just launched its cheapest plan yet: $89.95 per year, paid up front. That includes a $6.55 processing fee, meaning the monthly price before the fee comes out to around $6.95, Deadline reports.
This is the second time in the past few months that MoviePass has dropped its prices to lure new customers. In August, the company moved from a tiered pricing plan that ranged from $15 to $50 per month, to a flat fee of $9.95 per month.
MoviePass says the offer, available now for a “limited time,” will only last for one year, billed up front, and then revert back to $9.95 per month. As Slash Film points out, current users can switch over to the yearly plan, but new subscribers can only choose the yearly plan until the offer period is up. MoviePass also says it won’t be offering refunds if you cancel an annual subscription before the year is up.
“We are entering the prime movie going season, so now is the perfect time to take advantage of the MoviePass movement,” Mitch Lowe, CEO of MoviePass, said in a statement.
After the price drop this summer, MoviePass saw a massive boost in subscriber numbers. Last December, the service only had around 20,000 subscribers. This October, it had more than 600,000, according to MarketWatch.
But the company’s business plan hasn’t been so eagerly welcomed in the movie industry. In August, AMC Theaters, the largest movie chain in the US, threatened MoviePass with a lawsuit and claimed that the company’s business model was unsustainable. MoviePass pays theaters the full price for each ticket, except at a few theaters where it gets a discount, Wired reports. The average cost of a movie ticket in North America is $8.84, according to The Hollywood Reporter, which means if subscribers on the new plan attend just one screening per month, MoviePass will already be losing money.
The company’s plan to make money is a little unclear. Lowe has said that MoviePass subscribers spend more money on snacks than the average movie-goer, and that those costs will help make up the ticket price, according to Business Insider. It also might sell your data: this summer, the company sold a majority stake to the data firm Helios and Matheson Analytics Inc, and it hopes to eventually use the data from subscribers for marketing and advertising materials.
The Verge has reached out to MoviePass and will update with any new information.


Apple has delayed the release of its HomePod speaker until 2018. In a statement to The Verge, Apple says that it needs more time to work on the HomePod. “We can't wait for people to experience HomePod, Apple's breakthrough wireless speaker for the home, but we need a little more time before it's ready for our customers,” an Apple spokesperson said. “We'll start shipping in the US, UK and Australia in early 2018."
The speaker was originally set to be released in December. Priced at $349, the HomePod is slated to take on higher-end sound systems like Sonos, as well as smart assistants like the Amazon Echo and Google Home.
The cylindrical speaker features a seven-speaker array of tweeters, a four-inch subwoofer, and a six-microphone array, which puts it right on par spec-wise with the best speakers in its price range, but where it may fall short is Siri, which isn’t really in the same class as Alexa or Google Assistant. That challenge is likely why Apple’s focus at the launch of the HomePod back at WWDC in June was music first and smart features second.
It’s unclear exactly why Apple had to push back the release of the HomePod, but pulling out of the holiday rush isn’t something that any company takes lightly. With no firm release date — early 2018 is vague at best — it could be a while before we actually see the HomePod on sale.


The Lenovo Yoga 920 is the direct sequel to Lenovo’s Yoga 910 convertible laptop. Before every Windows PC company was making 2-in-1 computers, it was Lenovo’s line of 360-degree hinged laptops that pioneered the form factor, which combines a laptop design with some tablet functionality.
If you’re keeping track, improvements made since the Yoga 910 include the addition of Thunderbolt 3, new webcam location, a Windows Precision touchpad, better battery life, heat management, and finally, the bundled active pen.
Now that there are so many other 2-in-1 convertibles, including excellent options from HP and others, what makes the Yoga 920 special? It turns out, quite a few things.
The Yoga 920 is a premium computer that starts at $1,199. That gets you a Full HD display, 256GB SSD, 8GB of RAM, and an eighth-generation Core i5 processor. The unit I’ve been testing has all of those same specs, save for an eighth-generation Core i7 chip, which bumps the price up to $1,299.
There are a few optional extras you can tick off to splurge on the Yoga 920, including a 4K display, 16GB of RAM, and a 1TB SSD, taking the grand total all the way to $1,999.
Lenovo’s hinge design for the Yoga laptops has become its signature, like the oddly placed camera on a Dell XPS 13, or the Touch Bar on a MacBook Pro. It’s perhaps one of the most robust and unique laptop hinges in use. It reminds me of a metallic mesh watch band (my favorite), but the design not only allows the screen to flip fully behind the keyboard, it also hides the computer’s ventilation system.
This particular Yoga 920 has a bronze metallic finish throughout. You can go for platinum or copper instead, but I’ve taken a particular liking to this color scheme. It makes the Yoga 260 look even sleeker than its 0.55-inch thickness would lead you to believe.
However, this smooth finish and color makes it a fingerprint magnet, which means it requires quite a bit of upkeep to stay spotless. That also goes for the 13.9-inch touchscreen, but I’ll address that later.
Aesthetics aside, its structural integrity is what makes it awesome. There’s no flex, and no sense of flimsiness anywhere with metal chassis and accents everywhere.
Consequently, the heavy use of metals makes the Yoga 260 — you guessed it — heavy. Its three-pound weight isn’t abnormal (the 13-inch MacBook Pro weighs about the same), but other similar Windows PCs, like HP’s Spectre 13 x360, weigh noticeably less. I don’t consider it a deal-breaker, but I do feel the added weight on my shoulder when carrying the 920 around.
Despite the high mark the Yoga 920 scores in the design department, nothing is perfect, and that’s very clear when you learn about Lenovo’s storage solution for the included pen. It’s basically a 3D-printed piece of plastic that clips into the computer’s sole USB-A port and offers a slot to slide the pen in.
Yes, you’ve sacrificed your only full-size USB port to hold the pen with a piece of plastic. A magnetic solution would be better.
One of the many things I enjoyed about using the 920 every day for two weeks, was how easy it was to live with. All methods of input, which include the precision touchpad, touchscreen, keyboard, and active stylus were accurate, with no malfunctions or evidence of subpar build quality. I never once had to fight the system to use it, a trait I often attribute to Surface devices due to solid marriage between software and hardware.
My only qualm with the keyboard is that it uses a key shape that’s like a square at the top, but a semicircle near the bottom. Similar to a MacBook Pro keyboard, the Yoga 920’s keys are shallow with little travel. It takes a few rapid-fire paragraphs to avoid touching the wrong keys, but once you get used to it, it’s not much of an issue. Otherwise, a useful set of function keys adorn the top row. Meanwhile, the Fn + Space bar key combo controls the three backlit keyboard settings: off, dim, or bright. Unfortunately, there isn’t an automatic mode for the backlight.
Windows OEMs are slowly adopting Windows Precision touchpad drivers for their laptops and Lenovo is no exception here. Windows 10’s multitouch gestures are smooth, scrolling is natural, and the trackpad itself is large enough to avoid feeling cramped.
The pen is just about as useful as any other active pen bundled with a Windows 10 machine: it’s useful to doodle The Verge logo in a pinch, but not something I found integral to my day-to-day use.
Right out of the gate, the Yoga 920 comes with Intel’s new eighth-generation Intel Core processors. Never mind the low clock speeds; this chip generation is optimized for multitasking and battery conservation.
Intel’s Core i7-8500U chip inside the Yoga 920 is clocked at 1.80Ghz (1.99GHz TurboBoost), with 8GB of RAM to help it along, with a fast NVMe 256GB solid state drive. It’s excellent at multitasking and powers through heavy workload apps, like Photoshop.
If you’re really into using Cortana (or just your voice in general), then you’ll be glad to know the Yoga 920 has far-field microphones with a range of about 20 feet. However, if you’re more of a listener, then the twin JBl speakers have you covered. They sound excellent, with a warm and full-bodied sound. But they do have one flaw: poor placement. They’re underneath the front lip of the chassis, so they’re prone to being obstructed on a bed, or anywhere that isn’t perfectly flat.
The 1080p display won’t wow anyone with its pixel density, but it’s a very serviceable screen for most uses. Viewing angles are excellent, meaning you can flip the Yoga 920 around into its tent mode and watch Netflix with a friend without having to elbow each other to see the display. Its colors are bright, with excellent contrast, and it has a suitable level of brightness. Above the FHD screen is a 720p webcam, which, unfortunately, lacks clarity and isn’t as good as most front-facing smartphone cameras. It can be useful for the occasional Skype call, but that’s about it.
That display likely contributes to the 920’s stamina on battery. It just won’t die. I’ve routinely been able to go between 11 and 12 hours between charges. That’s with Bluetooth off, at least 70 percent brightness on HD playback via Chrome, and some multitasking going on in the background. No matter how I slice it, the Yoga 920 has an excellent battery that outlasts the other 2-in-1 laptop of note, the Spectre x360.
As for ports, there are four on the Yoga 920. A USB 3.0, two Thunderbolt 3 / USB-C ports (only one works with the supplied USB-C charger, sadly), and a 3.5mm audio jack.
Windows Hello can work well with a fingerprint sensor, which the Yoga 920 has. Unfortunately, it’s not the fastest sensor I’ve used. There is a brief pause before it seems like the Yoga realized my finger was even on the sensor. Compared to the Touch ID system on Apple’s MacBook Pro, the Yoga’s fingerprint sensor is noticeably slower. The facial recognition implementation of Windows Hello has also been faster on other laptops, in my experience.
The Lenovo Yoga 920 is the best 2-in-1 Windows laptop this year. The user experience is straightforward, it benefits greatly from having an eighth-gen Core processor, and it has excellent battery life and a robust, compelling design.
Overall, there aren’t major pitfalls to the Yoga 920, with only a few quirks that could easily be addressed in future iterations. It’s a solid pick for college students, creatives who want an active pen experience, or anyone who wants to know how good a 2-in-1 really is.


If you needed one more reason to love your puppy, here’s a pretty good one: your furry best friend might help you live longer.
Researchers in Sweden tracked more than 3.4 million Swedish people with no heart disease over a period of 12 years. Some owned dogs and some didn’t. By looking at how many died in the 12-year follow-up, and adjusting for relevant factors like age and sex, the scientists calculated the risk of death. It turns out that dog owners had a 20 percent lower risk of dying compared to people who didn’t have a dog. The benefits were particularly strong for dog owners who lived alone: they had a 33 percent lower risk of death, and an 8 percent lower risk of cardiovascular disease, like stroke and heart failure.
Research has shown that living with pets has certain health benefits: people who own dogs tend to be more physically active, for instance, and have lower blood pressure. Today’s study, published in the journal Scientific Reports, adds to the body of research, especially in regards to cardiovascular disease — the number one killer in the world, including in the US. “It could be a very efficient lifestyle intervention to get a dog,” says senior study author Tove Fall, an associate professor in epidemiology at Uppsala University. “For some people that feel lonely or have problems of keeping a good lifestyle, this could be a good help.”
For the study, researchers analyzed 12 years of government-collected data on 3.4 million Swedish residents, which includes information on birth, sex, age, health, marital status, as well as death. Since 2001, dog owners in Sweden have had to register their dogs by using an ear tattoo or under-skin chip, so the researchers could also check which of those 3.4 million people owned a puppy. Dog owners were then compared with pet-less people: those who had a dog were found to have a lower risk of death due to cardiovascular disease or other causes during the 12-year follow-up. Dog owners who lived alone had a lower risk of cardiovascular disease, as did people who had hunting dogs compared to other breeds.
The exact reasons behind the results aren’t clear: it could be that people who own dogs live longer because they’re more physically active, or are less stressed, Fall tells The Verge. People who live alone may benefit even more because they’re the only ones taking care of the dog, so they’re forced to go take the pooch out for a walk. Single people might also get a stronger emotional support from their furry friends since they don’t live with a husband or have kids, Fall says. “I got my first dog when I was single and she was my best friend,” she says. “She was super important.”
The study has some obvious limitations: even though the researchers adjusted their estimates for confounding factors such as income and education, there’s a lot they still don’t know about their study subjects. For example, it could be that people who live alone and have dogs have a lower risk of cardiovascular disease because they’re generally healthier to begin with. Getting a dog is time-consuming and expensive, so if you’re dealing with an important health issue and live by yourself, maybe you’d think twice about it. The study subjects were also all from Sweden, so results could be different in different countries.
Still, the researchers looked at a lot of people, and that makes their results stronger. The study is also in line with what other research has found — and what dog owners have probably long known. Fall says her family has an “active little dog,” a Kooikerhondje retriever, whom her kids love playing with in the forest. “We really think that it adds to the well being in the family,” Fall says. “It’s really nice when you come home and you had a crappy day but the dog won’t care. It just jumps up, wags the tail, and is happy anyway.”


What’s in Your Bag? is a recurring feature where we ask people to tell us a bit more about their everyday gadgets by opening their bags and hearts to us. This week, we’re featuring Verge senior editor Paul Miller.
I carry a bag because I need my laptop with me, and because I have a laptop-sized bag, I end up with a lot of junk that accumulates in the pockets and crevices. Therefore, I wouldn’t think of this setup as some sort of thoughtful expression of my needs and priorities. It’s more of a snapshot of which particular junk is the best at hiding.
This photo is disgusting, and I’m sorry. My bag is very dirty. I’ve been wearing it constantly for over three years straight, and apparently I’m also a chimney sweep? But this bag checked all the boxes for me when I bought it, and I have zero complaints. It’s not a messenger bag, because those hurt my neck and shoulders. It has a water bottle holder on the side because sometimes I get thirsty. There’s a laptop sleeve on the inside. You can strap a skateboard or a U-lock to it without much trouble. And it’s waterproof enough that I can bike in the rain.[Copy editor’s note: I have requested that Paul wash his bag. I will update this post if / when that happens.]
I don’t always listen to what Vlad says, but I bought this pair of Zero Audio Carbo Tenore headphones just like he told me to, and I don’t have any regrets.
I do regret #donglelife, but I’d rather have good headphones and the dongle inconvenience than bad headphones and Bluetooth freedoms.
You can’t see in this photo, but my iPhone 7’s screen is still cracked.
I am a headphone murderer. I’m mean and bad to headphones, and I’m sorry. I bought these Senso headphones to try out the Bluetooth life because they were cheap and had good reviews on Amazon. I didn’t love them, but I also didn’t mean to let them get crushed at the bottom of my bag and become totally busted.
My EarPods are my headphones of last resort. The sound only half works in one of the ears, and obviously I can’t use them with my laptop. But sometimes I forget my regular headphones or lose the dongle, so I’m left with no choice.
I renewed my driver’s license, but it never arrived in the mail. So when I want to buy cigarettes or drink alcohol, I have to pull out my passport to prove how old I am. Please don’t rob me.
My mom and dad bought me this Knomo wallet at a mall maybe a decade ago. I like it because it’s easy to get my subway card in and out. It’s totally falling apart, but I think I can squeeze another year or two of life out of it.
At Burger King, I got a two-cheeseburger meal, which is like three or four dollars. What a deal! Don’t know why I saved the receipt, though.
I used to have a toothpick container in my bag, but then it broke and now I just find toothpicks everywhere. Here are a few of them. Also I forgot this fidget spinner was even in my bag, and I promise I haven’t fidget spun since the fad ended!
Maybe Emergen-C is just a placebo but it is the most effective placebo for oncoming colds ever discovered on this planet. Fisherman’s Friend is only for very bad coughs, if the Emergen-C didn’t work out.
The tablets are some form of acetaminophen. Maybe a sleepy kind? Not sure, there’s not a lot of info on the back. Guess these are nice to have, though. Glad I found them.
These are my new pair of glasses! I have another, secret pair of glasses that I call my “racecar” glasses because they make my face look like a racecar. These new glasses are maybe cool enough to actually wear out and about, but I really just need them for reading.
I need something more formal to hold my new camera, but for now this canvas tote is doing fine. I don’t think that’s a blood stain on the bottom right corner, but it certainly does look suspicious.
I really love this camera. It’s really affordable for what you get, and the lenses I buy for this will work great with higher-end Sony E-mount cameras if I decide to upgrade. Unfortunately, I skipped the kit lens and got Sony’s 50mm prime lens as my starter. It’s wonderful and creates beautiful images, but it’s a 75mm equivalent on this crop sensor, and therefore the type of shots I can get is very limited.
This is a 13-inch MacBook Pro. Late 2015. Boring!
But check out this USB cable. It was a pack-in with my Senso Headphones for some reason. That Lightning connector pulls off to reveal a Micro USB connector, but thanks to a marvel of engineering, you don’t immediately lose the Lightning adapter. This is my backup for when I forget all my “regular” cables, and it ends up saving me at least once a week.
I also have an Anker battery pack that I forget to bring with me sometimes (like the day of this photo shoot), but it’s the same one Dieter has.
That 8GB Lexar drive is ancient, but look at that E Ink capacity indicator! I already wrote a whole piece about how disappointing this replacement headphone dongle was, but somehow it’s still floating around in my bag, being disappointing. The gold coin somehow ending up in my backpack is a distant effect of a prank by my roommate. I have a whole bag of them under my bed, if you’re interested.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.


The Federal Communications Commission voted yesterday to begin overhauling a program known as Lifeline that provides discounted internet and phone service to low-income homes. The changes immediately affect discounts available on Tribal lands by vastly limiting who can receive them. The commission also said it would begin considering a laundry list of proposals that include putting a spending cap on the program, severely constraining which providers can offer discounted service, and giving up federal approval of providers as well.
FCC chairman Ajit Pai began halting the Lifeline program back in February, immediately after stepping into his new role. The program offers $9.25 off of phone or internet service every month to households near or below the poverty line. Households on Tribal lands are also eligible for an additional $25 discount. But Pai has argued that the program is rife with wasted spending and is doing a poor job of encouraging service providers to reach homes that remain unconnected.
Yesterday’s vote passed a rule that will immediately limit the additional Tribal discounts to people in rural areas only, whereas before it was available more broadly “in recognition of not only the low income levels but also the particularly poor connectivity on many Tribal lands.” Pai hopes that by limiting the additional subsidies to rural areas, it’ll encourage providers to build networks that cover those lands.
FCC commissioner Mignon Clyburn said that the commission had failed to properly consult with Tribes before making this change. “The Tribes have told us that losing enhanced Lifeline support would be devastating,” she said in a dissenting statement.
Those are the immediate changes, but what’s coming next could be even more damaging for low-income consumers. The commission also approved a proposal to consider limiting Lifeline subsidies to providers that own and operate their own networks — meaning that MVNOs wouldn’t be able to offer the discount. Clyburn says this rule could mean that “over 70 percent of wireless Lifeline consumers will be told they cannot use their preferred carrier and preferred plan.”
Republican FCC commissioners view the proposal as a way to target money to companies that are actually capable of building out networks, and therefore reaching new areas and serving new consumers. This logic doesn’t really add up: MVNOs pay network owners for the service they use; there’s still no reason for Comcast and the like to spend millions building out to a rural area to serve a small number of consumers; and this does nothing to help people actually afford internet service, which is the real goal of Lifeline. But I guess if the goal is to give those companies more money and cross your fingers hoping they do something good with it, then this accomplishes everything the commission could dream of.
While that’s only a proposal for most of the US, the commission actually went ahead and voted that rule in for Tribal lands already.
On top of all of this, the Republican commissioners still want to make a bunch of changes to reduce perceived waste and abuse in the system. Last year, a Government Accountability Office report that said the program is losing money to fraud to has oversight issues, though it was conducted on a small sample and done before additional reforms were put in place.
To reduce those issues, the FCC will now consider putting a hard spending cap on the Lifeline program, which basically means it won’t be able to scale if the system needs to grow to accommodate more low-income households. For a program with the goal of getting low-income homes connected, that could dramatically limit its effectiveness.
The FCC is also considering handing a lot more control of the program over to states. When the Lifeline program was revamped to include broadband service two years ago, the commission took control of the ability to approve companies to offer subsidized service. The purpose of this was to make it easy for companies to sign up — rather than risk letting states delay or reject them — so that the commission could get as many as possible on board and give as many low-income households as possible the ability to get Lifeline discounts. Now, however, the commission is looking at handing that ability to the states, which would slow the program’s expansion.
As of today, the biggest changes are limited to Tribal lands. But next year, the commission is certain to consider a final version of these proposals — one that will very likely curtail low-income consumers’ ability to get subsidized service in the name of limiting waste and encouraging infrastructure spending from massive internet providers by giving them more money.
Commissioner Clyburn summed the day’s proceeding up sadly and succinctly, with a reference to the commission’s earlier approval of zero-rating programs: “I could go on pointing out how this administration enables providers to provide free data to consumers,” she said, “but not if they are economically poor.”


Google Assistant can help you troubleshoot issues you might encounter on your phone, though the feature is only available for Pixel 2 users at the moment, according to Android Police. A user running Android Oreo 8.1’s developer preview asked Google Assistant why their phone wasn’t charging fully, and a troubleshooting feature jumped into gear. A battery health check was run and the virtual assistant also scanned the phone for apps that might be causing the battery to drain.
Once that was complete, the Assistant displayed an option to connect the user to Google Support via phone or chat. The system seems pretty intuitive, the only minor issue was the Assistant didn’t recognize a phone number input when prompted.
Google Assistant appears to also be able to run diagnostic tests on the camera and Bluetooth connectivity. Android Police also noted that not all the features seem to be working at the moment, and might just be exclusive to Pixel 2 users in the US that have the dev preview for Android Oreo. This feature seems pretty helpful, and would be even better if it wasn’t limited to Pixel 2 devices, so fingers crossed a wider release is forthcoming to all devices running Oreo.


Two for the price of one. Two birds with one stone. Two heads are better than one. It’s a fairly simple concept: if having one of something is good, then having two of that thing is even better.
At face value, ZTE’s Axon M doesn’t look like a $725 smartphone. The design is chunky for a modern phone, although the squarish aluminum chassis is comfortably weighty to hold. Turn on the device, and you’re greeted by a 5.2-inch, 1080p panel with bezels that feel massive compared to more modern devices like the Essential Phone, Galaxy S8, and iPhone X. The rest of the specs are just okay, with last year’s Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 processor and 4GB of RAM. Even the software is a year old: it runs Android Nougat, instead of Oreo (although ZTE is promising an update further down the line).
But the Axon M has a trick up its sleeve, something that no other phone is equipped with. More accurately, this trick is hidden behind its back: a second screen, that flips out to create a mini tablet of sorts. So, let's talk about those screens.
Like the “main” screen, the second Axon M screen is an identical 5.2-inch, 1080p display, which results in a larger 6.75-inch combined screen when unfolded. There are three different modes ZTE offers for taking advantage of the second display, which can be switched between through an extra “M” button that the company adds next to Android’s usual software buttons for going back, home, and multitasking.
First up is the simplest mode, called “dual mode.” As the name may suggest, dual mode lets you run two apps side by side, one on each screen. It works in both portrait and landscape modes, and it’s probably the most useful and most functional of the three modes. Being able to run Google Maps side by side with an email so I could get directions while looking up what floor I was supposed to go to was actually kind of useful, or even just the ability to message a friend while not leaving the YouTube video I was watching all works well. In dual-screen mode, each app gets its own set of software hot keys, letting you close out one and open up a new one without disturbing the other. The Axon M also manages audio, so that you’ll only hear the screen you’re actively interacting with if both are trying to play. And while the specs aren’t the latest and greatest, the Axon M still holds up well, even for more demanding tasks like watching Netflix and playing a game at the same time.
Next is “extended mode,” which lets you run a single app on both screens in a tablet-like experience. Out of the box, ZTE has worked to optimize some of the more popular apps in the Play Store, including Facebook, Chrome, YouTube, and Twitter, but if your app hasn’t been optimized for the Axon M, you’ll need to force it to manually run in full-screen in settings through a universal toggle. Generally, everything I tried worked mostly well, even apps that weren’t specifically optimized for the larger screen, but your mileage may vary depending on what app you’re using.
More disappointing is that oftentimes I couldn’t really find a reason to actually use extended mode. Video — which would seem to be the best use for the larger screen — tends to gain the least from the second display. It gives you a marginally larger picture at the expense of large black bars on the top and bottom, and a bezel divides the screen in the middle; 4:3 fullscreen formatted content fares much better, but I can’t recommend buying a $725 smartphone to watch Cheers or Fraiser reruns on Netflix.
It’s also strange how much ZTE pushes video on the Axon M, too. There’s even a dedicated hardware button that can be mapped to instantly launch video apps like YouTube, Netflix, or DirecTV with a single press. (But it’s not really the best way to take advantage of the two-screen concept.)
Apps like Chrome, Facebook, and Twitter take better advantage of the screen real estate, but those run into the same problem that Android tablets have always had: they just don’t optimize that well for larger tablet-sized displays. The other weird quirk is that, due to how Android measures the screen sizes, holding the device vertically (with the two screens side by side) will get you the “tablet” version of an app, albeit one that feels too short; rotating the display produces a taller version of the standard smartphone version.
For now, it still feels like ZTE is only giving the most basic options for what you could do with two screens. There are occasional glimmers of potential, like running YouTube in full-screen on one display while being able to browse or find a new video to watch next undisturbed on the bottom, but it still feels like there’s more that could be done. Why isn’t there an e-reader app, for example, that lets me put two pages of a book on the two screens, like, say, an actual book? Or a gaming function that offloads the virtual buttons on one screen with a digital controller?
Lastly, there’s “mirror mode,” which simply mirrors content onto both screens. ZTE envisions people using this to fold the phone into a tent-like position and watch videos together. I can’t say this was a use case that ever came up outside of just testing to see if it works, but it’s there if that’s something you want to do.
There are also software gestures that, in theory, allow you to quickly swipe to switch between modes, sending an app from one screen to another or extending it across both displays with quick gestures, but unfortunately they’re pretty hit-or-miss to use in practice. I spent a lot of time swiping futilely at the bottom of the display, before giving up entirely to just use the manual button.
I spent a few days using the Axon M as my main phone, and even with pretty heavy use of the two screens, the 3,180mAh battery didn’t have any problems making it to the end of the day with at least a 15 percent charge left. But while the screens don’t hurt battery life that dramatically, there are definitely parts of the ZTE Axon M that feel like the price you pay for having the second display.
For example, there’s only a single 20-megapixel camera on the Axon M. Hitting a button to switch between the front- and rear-facing camera on this phone actually flips the entire screen around to the other display. It’s a clever solution, but it’s awkward to use in practice, and would leave me in weird situations where I’d exit out of the camera app after taking a picture with the “rear” sensor, only to be faced with a black screen because the phone was now backwards. (The camera is mounted above the left, or primary display.) This also means that apps that use the camera (like Snapchat) work extremely poorly in the dual-screen modes, since they can only take awkwardly positioned selfies.
The placement of the hinge on the right side of the Axon M means that all the buttons are shifted to the left, including the power button, which flies in the face of years of ingrained logic from iPhones, Samsung Galaxy phones, Google Pixels, and almost every other major phone. On more than one occasion, I picked up the phone and thumbed the power button only to realize that I was holding it upside down, and that the “main” screen was on the other side.
A final weird hardware quirk was that the two panels on our review device seemed to be calibrated differently: one displayed warmer colors, and one was slightly cooler. It’s not a deal-breaker, but it was something noticeable, especially when running some apps extended across the two displays.
The Axon M isn’t the first attempt at a dual-screen Android phone. The benefit of time and more powerful hardware means that the Axon M can actually follow through on some of the promises, like running multiple apps and full-screen integration, that precursors like the Kyocera Echo simply weren’t able to do.
But if the Axon M is the first dual-screen phone that can actually execute the idea of a two-screened device, using it in practice has me doubting whether the idea actually has practical merit. It is cool, on a purely technical level, to be able to unfold your phone and run a giant version of Alto’s Adventure or two apps side by side. But between the hacked-together software execution and the overall lack of productive application for it, it’s hard to look at the Axon M as anything more than a fun gimmick. And with the hefty $725 price tag and a plethora of more powerful, better-designed, and cheaper Android flagships out there, it’s probably worth sticking to one screen for now.



The OnePlus 5T and Razer Phone are two fundamentally different devices, which are nonetheless united by one unfortunate downside: both of them are going on sale this month without the latest version of Android on board. OnePlus will tell you that this issue is down to its extremely stringent testing process, while Razer offers a similar boilerplate about working as fast as possible to deliver Android Oreo. But we’re now three months removed from Google’s grand Oreo launch, timed to coincide with this summer’s total eclipse, and all of these excuses are starting to ring hollow. Why do Android companies think they can ship new devices without the latest and best version of the operating system on board?
The notorious fragmentation problem with Android has always been that not every device gets the latest update at the same time, and many devices get stuck on older software without ever seeing an update at all. What’s changed now is that the “one version behind the newest and best” phenomenon is starting to infect brand new phones as well. The 5T and Razer Phone are just two examples; there’s also Xiaomi, which just launched its Mi Mix 2 in Spain with 2016’s Android Nougat as the operating system. This is leading to a fractured Android landscape, one where you might get Android Oreo if you buy the new and shiny HTC U11 Plus, or you might get Android Nougat if you buy the OnePlus 5T, which was officially announced less than 24 hours ago.
Many people won’t care to check or even know what operating system version their phone is running. But that’s really part of the problem. When I’m among laypeople, they speak of Android as one coherent whole: “I’d switch to Android, but does it do x and y better than the iPhone?” The mass market consumer rarely differentiates between Samsung-brand Android, OnePlus-brand Android, and all the others. And when a company like Google does a big event telling everyone that Android now has notification dots adorning app icons, faster boot times, better power efficiency, new priority groupings for notifications, and all the other under-the-hood improvements of Oreo, those very same people expect to be able to walk into a store, pick out an Android phone, and have those exact capabilities at their fingertips.
Instead, we have to return to the unhappy chart below, which shows the proportion of active Android devices on each version of the OS. For reference, Android KitKat (13.8 percent) was released in 2013, Lollipop (27.2 percent) came in 2014, Marshmallow (30.9 percent) followed in 2015, and Nougat (20.6 percent) was last year. Android Oreo stands at 0.3 percent as of November 9th. You don’t need to compare this to the proportion of iOS devices that are fully up to date with iOS 11 (52 percent at last count) to know that it’s not a happy picture.
For anyone enervated by seeing the latest iteration of the Android platform chart, all I can say is we’ll keep talking about it so long as it remains pertinent to the experience of buying and owning an Android device.
I have talked with most Android manufacturers over the past few weeks and I’m confident the update problem isn’t complacency. How could it be? Razer is launching its very first phone and trying to make the best possible impression, whereas OnePlus has the fresh memory of nearly going out of business in 2015 after some poor product decisions. The Android device market is too competitive for such a simple explanation.
A partial justification for the latest actions of these companies stems from the maturity of Android itself. The differences between Oreo and Nougat are less noticeable in day-to-day use than the differences between, say, Gingerbread and Ice Cream Sandwich. To some extent, you could make the argument that the majority of people in the market for a new phone wouldn’t feel the absence of the latest software anyway. (Much as, for instance, numerous companies now believe we can live without a headphone jack). And since OnePlus and Razer both have to get their devices into stores and available online during the holiday shopping season, their hands are somewhat tied. They have to release the best possible product they have at the optimal market timing.
Android companies aren’t willing to go on the record with this, but Qualcomm also plays a role in slowing down updates. Its Snapdragon processors invariably grace the biggest flagship devices, and the manufacturers are reliant on Qualcomm quickly supporting the latest OS update too. Not long ago, Qualcomm’s early termination of support for Snapdragon 800/801 chips left a lot of people disappointed. Those were flagship processors for premium devices, but the chipmaker’s decision left owners of such phones without the Android Nougat update that they’d expected or been hoping for.
Google is working hard to reduce the behind-the-scenes complexity that’s inherent in updating Android phones. The Project Treble initiative in Android Oreo is part of that, though for its effects to be felt, we’re going to have to wait a couple of years until Oreo becomes a more substantial proportion of the Android market than the rounding error it presently is. As things stand, Android remains a chaotic and frustrating place to be for anyone who just wants the latest and greatest.
When you buy a new phone, you should be safe in the knowledge that it’s better than all the preceding models. Recent times have rather eroded that expectation, as newer smartphones now lack headphone jacks, many are switching from aluminum to more fragile glass construction, and the Android software situation remains as unpredictable as it’s ever been. Apple’s iPhones are subject to some of the same critiques, but at least Apple gives you the reassurance of knowing you’ll get the next software update. And probably the one after that too. Android phones? You’d better check you’re being the served the freshest flavor before buying one.


LG’s OLED TVs are widely considered to be among the best-looking TV sets out there — if not the outright best. But the problem is, they’re all very, very expensive. At least, they usually are: next week, as part of an extended Black Friday sale, LG is dropping the price on nearly all of its 2017 OLED TVs.
These TVs won’t exactly be cheap, but they’ll be at their most affordable pricing ever and include some solid deals for anyone looking to get the best picture quality possible. Every one of the sets supports 4K and Dolby Vision HDR, and they all use the same OLED panel. The differences are largely in thickness, bezel, and their built-in sound system.
Pricing on the TVs starts as low as $1,499. Most of these TVs were already discounted to some extent, but there are still some steep cuts unique to this sale.
The discounts go live Sunday, November 19th and run through through Cyber Monday, on November 27th, so you’ve got a little time to do some research.
Here’s the list of deals:
LG OLED B7A series TV:
LG OLED C7 series TV:
LG OLED E7 series TV:
LG Signature OLED G7 series TV:
LG Signature OLED W7 series TV:
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.


Someday mirrors will be smart enough to lie to us, assuring us we’re the fairest of them all. Until then, there’s this thing from iHome.
The distortion-free mirror measures 10 inches by 13 inches, and features a built-in Bluetooth speaker to play music while getting ready, and a USB jack to keep your phone charged. The adjustable mirror includes a removable 3.5-inch mirror with 10x magnification and variable LED lighting around the frame to see as much (horrifying?) detail as you want.
There's also a built-in mic with echo-cancelling technology and support for Siri and Google Assistant. That way you can ask the mirror to do stuff while you're grooming. To do so, you push and hold a button on the device to activate the voice assistant through your phone. Saying “Hey Siri, call mom” would be pretty cool, leaving your hands free to draw on your winged eyeliner with the razor sharp precision of a surgeon.
You can even use it on the go thanks to a rechargeable battery. And a timer will switch off the light after 25 minutes if you forget.
The iCVBT10 mirror is available now from Amazon, Bed, Bath, and Beyond, and iHome for $199.99. But, if you prefer something that tells you how nice the day is going to be displayed on the mirror itself, we made our very own smart mirror that you can DIY at home.




Microsoft revealed earlier this week that it’s cutting the Xbox One S price to its lowest point of $189 for Black Friday, and now it’s discounting games to match. Xbox Live Gold members can get early access to the deals, with a range of games seeing discounts up to 65 percent.
New games like Call of Duty: WW2, Assassin’s Creed: Origins, and Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus are all on offer, alongside recent titles like Destiny 2 and Fifa 18. The discounts are ideal if you’ve just purchased a new Xbox One X, or if you’re planning to gift games to friends over the holidays. You can find the full list of deals over at Major Nelson’s site.


Last night, Tesla had a bit of a celebration for itself, unveiling its new Semi truck and (in a surprise) a second-generation Roadster. It was a typical Tesla event, full of twists, shocks, and plenty of smoke and mirrors. The soundtrack rocked, the starry-eyed fans lapped it up, and now you can watch the highlights in this supercut we made for you. You’re welcome.
The Semi was as foreboding and the Roadster was enticing. The fact that Musk paired the two together shows he hasn’t lost his flair as a showman, even with his company facing what’s probably its biggest challenge in its short existence.
Of course, the Model 3 loomed over it all. But it was easy to forget about all the snags and delays plaguing the production of Tesla’s first mass-market electric car, especially with Musk dropping phrases like “zero to 60 in 1.9 seconds” and “620-mile range.” These are just concept vehicles, really, but it’s Tesla, and nothing is really ever as it seems.



During Tesla’s semi truck event tonight, CEO Elon Musk had a surprise up his sleeve: a new version of the Tesla Roadster. And now we know how much it will cost. The base model will start at $200,000, with a $50,000 deposit required upfront. Interested parties can place their deposits today.
The first 1,000 models sold will be the Founder’s Series models which will cost you $250,000 upfront. Production isn’t slated to begin until 2020, but if Tesla can match its claimed specs for the Roadster, it should strike fear in the hearts of every supercar maker currently building cars. The only comparable cars to the Roadster are the hybrid supercars built by McLaren (P1), Ferrari (LaFerrari), and Porsche (918 Spyder), which all cost around $1 million. And the upcoming Aston Martin Valkyrie and the Mercedes-AMG Project One will each cost around $3 million for cars that may end up being slower.
If Tesla is building a faster, cheaper, and totally electric supercar for a fourth of the price? It’s going to be a sleepless few years for those carmakers.


Elon Musk promised a surprise during the Tesla semi unveiling event, and boy did he deliver: the return of the Roadster. But it’s no repeat performance. The stunning four-seater roadster boasts jaw-dropping numbers, that if they measure up to Musk’s claims, will make it the world’s quickest production car. In his remarks, Musk described it as a “smackdown” to the fossil fuel-addicted auto industry.
The finale to his semi truck reveal was all about driving home that point. As the opening guitar licks of the Beastie Boys’ “Sabotage” blasted over the loud speaker, a beam of red zipped across the parking lot. The second-generation Tesla Roadster came to an abrupt halt, and a grinning Elon Musk came back on the mic to introduce his latest baby, which will likely cause Porsche and Ferrari to break a sweat.
Musk claimed the base model will do 0 to 60 in 1.9 seconds. If true, that would make it the first production vehicle to crack the two-second threshold. He also said the new Roadster would climb from 0 to 100 mph in 4.2 seconds, and will clear the quarter mile in 8.9 seconds (in case the Fast & Furious drag race franchise comes calling).
“It’ll be faster than that jet over there,” Musk quipped, as an airplane soared over the exultant crowd crammed into Tesla’s Hawthorne, California facility.
Musk said he wouldn’t confirm the top speed, but hinted that it was “above 250 mph.” By comparison, the Agera RS by Sweden’s Koenigsegg currently holds the world record at 277.9 mph.
As fans gasped, Musk said the Roadster had a 200kWh battery pack and a 620-mile range per charge, or over 1,000 kilometers. Again, another record shattered — or so Musk claims. Imagine driving from Los Angeles to San Francisco and back, without recharging, Musk teased.
The vehicle has three motors (one in the front and two in the rear), all-wheel drive, and torque steering.
The design is clear strike against the sports car industry. There are possible cues from all the majors players, including a McLaren P1 cockpit, an Acura NSX exterior, Bugatti Chiron headlights, a Targa-like roof, and a rear reminiscent of an Aston Martin DB10.
“The point of doing this is to give a hardcore smackdown to gasoline cars,” Musk said. Driving any other turbo-charged sports car, is going to feel like a steam engine with a side of quiche.
But there is a wait: Musk said production isn’t scheduled to start until 2020, and production deadlines at Tesla have traditionally been optimistic. You can reserve one now for $50,000 towards the $200,000 base price – or get one of the first 1,000 Founders Series models with more performance and an asking price of $250,000 that has to be paid now.
While Model 3 customers wait, Tesla has dug in its heels and reminded its fans where the brand love all began: the 2008 Roadster. Musk has been teasing the return of Tesla’s first production car since 2011, when the vehicle ended its run. But the promised date of 2014 came and went, and instead, the electric automakers fans got the Model S, followed by the X and the 3. This evening’s semi truck unveiling was meant to signal the next stage in Musk’s “Master Plan.” As Musk has shown time and again he has learned the art of flipping the script by delivering heavy on delight.
Correction: A previous version of this story described the Tesla Roadster as the fastest production car ever made, instead of, if made, the quickest. We apologize for the error.


In true Tesla fashion, CEO Elon Musk held a lavish event in Hawthorne, California on Thursday evening to reveal not just one, but two varieties of the all-electric semi truck the company has been teasing for months. The vehicle, designed to take on the industrial trucking market by leveraging electric motors and self-driving capabilities, were shown off for the first time, featuring a fair amount of borrowed parts and design from the company’s Model 3 sedan on top of some new twists. Musk also detailed how Tesla plans to bring these vehicles to market. Check out all the news from the event here, as well our post-event reporting and analysis.


Today, a teaspoon of spit and a hundred bucks is all you need to get a snapshot of your DNA. But getting the full picture—all 3 billion base pairs of your genome—requires a much more laborious process. One that, even with the aid of sophisticated statistics, scientists still struggle over. It’s exactly the kind of problem that makes sense to outsource to artificial intelligence.
On Monday, Google released a tool called DeepVariant that uses deep learning—the machine learning technique that now dominates AI—to assemble full human genomes. Modeled loosely on the networks of neurons in the human brain, these massive mathematical models have learned how to do things like identify faces posted to your Facebook news feed, transcribe your inane requests to Siri, and even fight internet trolls. And now, engineers at Google Brain and Verily (Alphabet’s life sciences spin-off) have taught one to take raw sequencing data and line up the billions of As, Ts, Cs, and Gs that make you you.
And oh yeah, it’s more accurate than all the existing methods out there. Last year, DeepVariant took first prize in an FDA contest promoting improvements in genetic sequencing. The open source version the Google Brain/Verily team introduced to the world Monday reduced the error rates even further—by more than 50 percent. Looks like grandmaster Ke Jie isn’t be the only one getting bested by Google’s AI neural networks this year.
DeepVariant arrives at a time when healthcare providers, pharma firms, and medical diagnostic manufacturers are all racing to capture as much genomic information as they can. To meet the need, Google rivals like IBM and Microsoft are all moving into the healthcare AI space, with speculation about whether Apple and Amazon will follow suit. While DeepVariant’s code comes at no cost, that isn’t true of the computing power required to run it. Scientists say that expense is going to prevent it from becoming the standard anytime soon, especially for large-scale projects.
But DeepVariant is just the front end of a much wider deployment; genomics is about to go deep learning. And once you go deep learning, you don’t go back.
It’s been nearly two decades since high-throughput sequencing escaped the labs and went commercial. Today, you can get your whole genome for just $1,000 (quite a steal compared to the $1.5 million it cost to sequence James Watson’s in 2008).
But the data produced by today’s machines still only produce incomplete, patchy, and glitch-riddled genomes. Errors can get introduced at each step of the process, and that makes it difficult for scientists to distinguish the natural mutations that make you you from random artifacts, especially in repetitive sections of a genome.
See, most modern sequencing technologies work by taking a sample of your DNA, chopping it up into millions of short snippets, and then using fluorescently-tagged nucleotides to produce reads—the list of As, Ts, Cs, and Gs that correspond to each snippet. Then those millions of reads have to be grouped into abutting sequences and aligned with a reference genome.
That’s the part that gives scientists so much trouble. Assembling those fragments into a usable approximation of the actual genome is still one of the biggest rate-limiting steps for genetics. A number of software programs exist to help put the jigsaw pieces together. FreeBayes, VarDict, Samtools, and the most well-used, GATK, depend on sophisticated statistical approaches to spot mutations and filter out errors. Each tool has strengths and weaknesses, and scientists often wind up having to use them in conjunction.
No one knows the limitations of the existing technology better than Mark DePristo and Ryan Poplin. They spent five years creating GATK from whole cloth. This was 2008: no tools, no bioinformatics formats, no standards. “We didn’t even know what we were trying to compute!” says DePristo. But they had a north star: an exciting paper that had just come out, written by a Silicon Valley celebrity named Jeff Dean. As one of Google’s earliest engineers, Dean had helped design and build the fundamental computing systems that underpin the tech titan’s vast online empire. DePristo and Poplin used some of those ideas to build GATK, which became the field’s gold standard.
But by 2013, the work had plateaued. “We tried almost every standard statistical approach under the sun, but we never found an effective way to move the needle,” says DePristo. “It was unclear after five years whether it was even possible to do better.” DePristo left to pursue a Google Ventures-backed start-up called SynapDx that was developing a blood test for autism. When that folded two years later, one of its board members, Andrew Conrad (of Google X, then Google Life Sciences, then Verily) convinced DePristo to join the Google/Alphabet fold. He was reunited with Poplin, who had joined up the month before.
And this time, Dean wasn’t just a citation; he was their boss.
As the head of Google Brain, Dean is the man behind the explosion of neural nets that now prop up all the ways you search and tweet and snap and shop. With his help, DePristo and Poplin wanted to see if they could teach one of these neural nets to piece together a genome more accurately than their baby, GATK.
The network wasted no time in making them feel obsolete. After training it on benchmark datasets of just seven human genomes, DeepVariant was able to accurately identify those single nucleotide swaps 99.9587 percent of the time. “It was shocking to see how fast the deep learning models outperformed our old tools,” says DePristo. Their team published the results on bioRxiv in December of 2016, and the next summer it went on to win a top performance award at the PrecisionFDA Truth Challenge.
DeepVariant works by transforming the task of variant calling—figuring out which base pairs actually belong to you and not to an error or other processing artifact—into an image classification problem. It takes layers of data and turns them into channels, like the colors on your television set. In the first working model they used three channels: The first was the actual bases, the second was a quality score defined by the sequencer the reads came off of, the third contained other metadata. By compressing all that data into an image file of sorts, and training the model on tens of millions of these multi-channel “images,” DeepVariant began to be able to figure out the likelihood that any given A or T or C or G either matched the reference genome completely, varied by one copy, or varied by both.
But they didn’t stop there. After the FDA contest they transitioned the model to TensorFlow, Google's artificial intelligence engine, and continued tweaking its parameters by changing the three compressed data channels into seven raw data channels. That allowed them to reduce the error rate by a further 50 percent. In an independent analysis conducted this week by genomics computing platform, DNAnexus, DeepVariant vastly outperformed GATK, Freebayes, and Samtools, sometimes reducing errors by as much as 10-fold.
“That shows that this technology really has an important future in the processing of bioinformatic data,” says DNAnexus CEO, Richard Daly. “But it’s only the opening chapter in a book that has 100 chapters.” Daly says he expects this kind of AI to one day actually find the mutations that cause disease. His company received a beta version of DeepVariant, and is now testing the current model with a limited number of its clients—including pharma firms, big health care providers, and medical diagnostic companies.
You Can Get Your Whole Genome Sequenced. But Should You?
Cheap DNA Sequencing Is Here. Writing DNA Is Next
Helix’s Bold Plan to Be Your One Stop Personal Genomics Shop
To run DeepVariant effectively for these customers, DNAnexus has had to invest in newer generation GPUs to support its platform. The same is true for Canadian competitor, DNAStack, which plans to offer two different versions of DeepVariant—one tuned for low cost and one tuned for speed. Google’s Cloud Platform already supports the tool, and the company is exploring using the TPUs (tensor processing units) that connect things like Google Search, Street View, and Translate to accelerate the genomics calculations as well.
DeepVariant’s code is open-source so anyone can run it, but to do so at scale will likely require paying for a cloud computing platform. And it’s this cost—computationally and in terms of actual dollars—that have researchers hedging on DeepVariant’s utility.
“It’s a promising first step, but it isn’t currently scalable to a very large number of samples because it’s just too computationally expensive,” says Daniel MacArthur, a Broad/Harvard human geneticist who has built one of the largest libraries of human DNA to date. For projects like his, which deal in tens of thousands of genomes, DeepVariant is just too costly. And, just like current statistical models, it can only work with the limited reads produced by today’s sequencers.
Still, he thinks deep learning is here to stay. “It’s just a matter of figuring out how to combine better quality data with better algorithms and eventually we’ll converge on something pretty close to perfect,” says MacArthur. But even then, it’ll still just be a list of letters. At least for the foreseeable future, we’ll still need talented humans to tell us what it all means.
Maybe you've heard of Crispr, the gene editing tool that could forever change life. So what is it and how does it work? Let us explain.


Your brain is one enigmatic hunk of meat—a wildly complex web of neurons numbering in the tens of billions. But years ago, when you were in the womb, it began as little more than a scattering of undifferentiated stem cells. A series of genetic signals transformed those blank slates into the wrinkly, three-pound mass between your ears. Scientists think the way your brain looks and functions can be traced back to those first molecular marching orders—but precisely when and where these genetic signals occur has been difficult to pin down.
Today, things are looking a little less mysterious. A team of researchers led by neuroscientists at UC San Francisco has spent the last five years compiling the first entries in what they hope will become an extensive atlas of gene expression in the developing human brain. The researchers describe the project in the latest issue of Science, and, with the help of researchers at UC Santa Cruz, they've made an interactive version of the atlas freely available online.
"The point of creating an atlas like this is to understand how we make a human brain," says study coauthor Aparna Bhaduri. To do that, she and her colleagues analyzed not only how gene expression varies from cell to cell, but where and at what stages of brain development those genes come into play.
Crucially, the researchers performed that analysis at the level of individual brain cells—a degree of specificity neuroscientists have struggled to achieve in the past. That's huge, in part because it gives researchers their clearest picture yet of where and in which cells certain genes are expressed in the fetal brain. But it also means scientists can begin to characterize early brain cells not according to things like their shape and location (two variables that neuroscientists have long used to classify cellular types and subtypes), but by the bits of DNA they turn on and off. As developmental neurobiologist Ed Lein, who was unaffiliated with the study, says: "This is not the first study in this area by any means, but the single cell technique is a game changer."
Lein would know. An investigator at the Allen Institute for Brain Science (a key institutional player in the mission to map the human brain, and the home of several ambitious brain atlas projects from the past decade), he and his colleagues performed a similar survey of gene expression in developing human brains in 2014. To build it, they sliced fetal brain tissue into tiny pieces and scanned them for gene expression. But even after dissecting them as finely as possible, Lein says the cell populations of the resulting brain bits were still extremely diverse. Even a microscopic speck of gray matter contains a menagerie of functionally distinct cells, from astrocytes to neurons to microglia (though, to be perfectly frank, neuroscientists aren't even sure how many cell types exist).
"When we measured the genes in our samples," says Lein, "what we actually saw was the average output of all the cells in that sample." When they were through, Lein and his colleagues had mapped the location and activity of some 20,000 genes in anatomical regions throughout the brain. But they still didn't know which individual cells those genes came from.
UCSF's new brain atlas doesn't span as many regions as the Allen Institute's (not yet, at least), but what anatomical areas it does covers it does with much greater specificity. "The difference between previous studies and ours is the difference between a smoothie and a fruit salad," says study coauthor Alex Pollen. "They have the same ingredients, but one mixes them together and the other looks at them individually."
The UCSF researchers focused on regions of the developing brain that eventually become the basal ganglia, which helps orchestrate things like voluntary motor control, and the cerebral cortex, the largest region of the mammalian brain and the seat of many human cognitive abilities. By examining the expression of individual cells from 48 brains at various stages of development, the researchers were able to trace a handful of genetic and developmental patterns to 11 broad categories of cell—and make a number of unexpected observations.
Scientists Create an Unprecedented Map of the Developing Human Brain
These Neurons are Alive and Firing. And You Can Watch Them In 3-D
A First Big Step Toward Mapping the Human Brain
"One big surprise is that region-specific neurons seem to form very early in the developmental process," says neurobiologist Tomasz Nowakowski, who led the study. That includes neurons in the prefrontal cortex, whose formation neuroscientists have long theorized to be influenced by sensory experience. But the new atlas suggests those areas begin to take shape before sensory experiences even have a chance to take place. That's the kind of finding that could fundamentally alter neuroscientists' understanding of the structure and function of adult brains.
The project's other takeaways are too numerous to list here. But that's the thing about brain atlases: They're great at generating questions. "These things are foundational," Lein says. "The reason these atlases are valuable is you can do a systematic analysis in one fell swoop and generate 10,000 hypotheses." Testing the hypotheses generated from this latest atlas will hinge on researchers' ability to access and add to it, which is why Nowakowski and his colleagues collaborated with UC Santa Cruz computer programmer Jim Kent to visualize their database in an interactive, online visualization.
Researchers will also want to cross-reference this atlas with similar projects. After all, there's more than one way to map a brain. You can classify its neurons by shape, location, or the genes they express. You can map the gene expression of old brains, young brains, and brains of different species. A recent project from the Allen Institute even classifies neurons according to their electrical activity. Brain atlases are like puzzle pieces that way: The more you have to work with, the easier it is to see the big picture—and how all the pieces fit.
The Connectome is a comprehensive diagram of all the neural connections existing in the brain. WIRED has challenged neuroscientist Bobby Kasthuri to explain this scientific concept to 5 different people; a 5 year-old, a 13 year-old, a college student, a neuroscience grad student and a connectome entrepreneur.


Humans dance. It's what they do. Everyone always wants to get some cool new dance move. First there was the electric slide. Yeah, that was cool—but then there was the moonwalk. That was really cool. And now we have the invisible box. OK, maybe it's not exactly a dance move, but more like a trick. The basic idea of this move is to make it seem like the dancer is stepping on a block—a block that's invisible. It's an impressive move, but how does it work?
https://twitter.com/arielo1220/status/936825731371241473
Let me start with an analysis of the motion. I will use a video from twitter along with video analysis techniques. Here is a plot of the vertical position of the girl's right foot (the one that steps on the "the box") during this move.
OK, she does a pretty nice job with that foot.  Notice that it has a fairly constant vertical position while she "steps" on the invisible block. In fact, the foot is stationary for almost 0.2 seconds. That might not seem like a long time, but it's long enough to appear awesome.
Since (SPOILER ALERT) there isn't really a box there, the girl is actually in the air for a little bit of time with only the gravitational force acting on her.  This means that she could be considered a type of projectile motion with a constant vertical acceleration of -9.8 m/s2.  But wait! If she is accelerating down, how does her foot stay stationary? The key here is that her center of mass accelerates down, but she can make a part of her (like her foot) stay stationary.
I could probably estimate her mass distribution to calculate her center of mass in each frame—but I will instead just plot the vertical motion of a few of her body parts (feet, arms, torso).  Here is the vertical position for all of these parts.
From this plot, you should notice a couple of things. First, the bottom foot actually doesn't move up or down that much compared to the rest of the body.  Second, the body seems to move in manner with a more constant acceleration—like you would expect for projectile motion. Do her arms have a significant impact on the move?  Maybe, it's difficult to tell.
But I'm not only here for the physics analysis. No, I'm here to help you pull this off. If you want to do this dance move, there are two things that you need to know—but remember, I'm a physicist and not a dancer. The higher you jump, the longer you can hold your foot in place. Since this jump is just like projectile motion, you want to jump as high as possible. However, the "hang time" for a jump is proportional to the square root of the height. For a half a second hang time, you would need to jump up 30 centimeters. That might not seem very high—but that is the height of your center of mass. It's tougher than it seems.
The other important thing to consider is the jumping force. In order to step on the invisible box, one of your legs doesn't really do anything except to "not move". This means that you have to jump over the invisible box using only one leg. That is not a very easy task. But I guess if it was easy, everyone would do it and it wouldn't be so cool.


The Thomas Fire spread through the hills above Ventura, in the northern greater Los Angeles megalopolis, with the speed of a hurricane. Driven by 50 mph Santa Ana winds—bone-dry katabatic air moving at freeway speeds out of the Mojave desert—the fire transformed overnight from a 5,000-acre burn in a charming chaparral-lined canyon to an inferno the size of Orlando, Florida, that only stopped spreading because it reached the Pacific. Tens of thousands of people evacuated their homes in Ventura; 150 buildings burned and thousands more along the hillside and into downtown are threatened.
That isn’t the only part of Southern California on fire. The hills above Valencia, where Interstate 5 drops down out of the hills into the city, are burning. Same for a hillside of the San Gabriel Mountains, overlooking the San Fernando Valley. And the same, too, near the Mount Wilson Observatory, and on a hillside overlooking Interstate 405—the flames in view of the Getty Center and destroying homes in the rich-people neighborhoods of Bel-Air and Holmby Hills.
And it’s all horribly normal.
Southern California’s transverse ranges—the mostly east-west mountains that slice up and define the greater Los Angeles region—were fire-prone long before there was a Los Angeles. They’re a broken fragment of tectonic plate, squeezed up out of the ground by the Pacific Plate on one side and the North American on the other, shaped into the San Gabriels, the Santa Monica Mountains, the San Bernardino Mountains. Even the Channel Islands off Ventura’s coast are the tippy-tops of a transverse range.
Santa Anas notwithstanding, the transverse ranges usually keep cool coastal air in and arid desert out. Famously, they’re part of why the great California writer Carey McWilliams called the region “an island on the land.” The hills provided hiding places for cowboy crooks, hiking for the naturalist John Muir, and passes both hidden and mapped for natives and explorers coming from the north and east.
With the growth and spread of Los Angeles, fire became even more part of Southern California life. “It’s almost textbook. It’s the end of the summer drought, there has not been a lot of rain this year, and we’ve got Santa Ana winds blowing,” says Alexandra Syphard, an ecologist at the Conservation Biology Institute. “Every single year, we have ideal conditions for the types of wildfires we’re experiencing. What we don’t have every single year is an ignition during a wind event. And we’ve had several.”
"The problem is not fire. The problem is people in the wrong places."
Alexandra Syphard, Conservation Biology Institute
Before humans, wildfires happened maybe once or twice a century, long enough for fire-adapted plant species like chapparal to build up a bank of seeds that could come back after a burn. Now, with fires more frequent, native plants can’t keep up. Exotic weeds take root. “A lot of Ventura County has burned way too frequently,” says Jon Keeley, a research ecologist with the US Geological Survey at the Sequoia and Kings Canyon Field Station. “We’ve lost a lot of our natural heritage.”
Fires don’t burn like this in Northern California. That’s one of the things that makes the island on the land an island. Most wildfires in the Sierra Nevadas and northern boreal forests are slower, smaller, and more easily put out, relative to the south. (The Napa and Sonoma fires this year were more like southern fires—wind-driven, outside the forests, and near or amid buildings.) Trees buffer the wind and burn less easily than undergrowth. Keeley says northern mountains and forests are “flammability-limited ecosystems,” where fires only get big if the climate allows it—higher temperatures and dryer conditions providing more fuel. Climate change makes fires there more frequent and more severe.
Southern California, on the other hand, is an “ignition-limited ecosystem.” It’s always a tinderbox. The canyons that cut through the transverse ranges align pretty well with the direction of the Santa Ana winds; they turn into funnels. “Whether or not you get a big fire event depends on whether humans ignite a fire,” he says.
And there are just a lot more humans in Southern California these days. In 1969 Ventura County’s population was 369,811. In 2016 it was 849,738—a faster gain than the state as a whole. In 1970 Los Angeles County had 7,032,000 people; in 2015 it was 9,827,000. “If you look historically at Southern California, the frequency of fire has risen along with population growth,” Keeley says. Though even that has a saturation point. The number of fires—though not necessarily their severity—started declining in the 1980s, maybe because of better fire fighting, and maybe because with more people and more buildings and roads and concrete, there’s less to burn.
As Syphard told me back at the beginning of this year’s fire season, “The problem is not fire. The problem is people in the wrong places.”
Like most fresh-faced young actors in Southern California, the idea of dense development is a relatively recent arrival. Most of the buildings on the island on the land are low, metastasizing in a stellate wave across the landscape, over the flats, up the canyons, and along the hillsides. In 1960 Santa Paula, where the Thomas Fire in Ventura started, was a little town where Santa Paula Canyon hit the Santa Clara River. Today it’s part of greater Ventura, stretching up the canyon, reaching past farms along the river toward Saticoy.
The Napa Fire Is a Perfectly Normal Apocalypse
In Cities, It's the Smoke, Not the Fire, That Will Get You
After the Napa Fires, a Disaster-in-Waiting: Toxic Ash
So the canyons are perfect places for fires. They’re at the Wildland-Urban Interface, developed but not too developed. Wall-to-wall hardscape leaves nothing to burn; no buildings at all means no people to provide an ignition source. But the hills of Ventura or Bel-Air? Firestarty.
As the transverse ranges defined Southern California before Los Angeles and during its spasmodic growth, today it’s defined by freeways. The mountains shape the roads—I-5 coming over the Grapevine through Tejon Pass in the Tehachapis, the 101 skirting the north side of the Santa Monica Mountains, and the 405 tucking through them via the Sepulveda Pass. The freeways, names spoken as a number with a "the" in front, frame time and space in SoCal. For an Angeleno like me, reports of fires closing the 101, the 210, and the 405 are code for the end of the world. Forget Carey McWilliams; that’s some Nathaniel West stuff right there—the burning of Los Angeles from Day of the Locust, the apocalypse that Hollywood always promises.
It won’t be the end end, of course. Southern California zoning and development are flirting, for now at least, with density, accommodating more people, dealing with the state’s broad crisis in housing, and incidentally minimizing the size of the wildland interface. No one can unbuild what makes the place an island on the land, but better building on the island might help stop the next fires before they can start.
Though the planet has only warmed by one-degree Celsius since the Industrial Revolution, climate change's effect on earth has been anything but subtle. Here are some of the most astonishing developments over the past few years.


San Francisco, land of unrestrained tech wealth and the attendant hoodies and $29 loaves of bread, just said whoa whoa whoa to delivery robots.
The SF Board of Supervisors voted on Tuesday, December 5 to severely restrict the machines, which roll on sidewalks and autonomously dodge obstacles like dogs and buskers. Now startups will have to get permits to run their robots under strict guidelines in particular zones, typically industrial areas with low foot traffic. And even then, they may only do so for research purposes, not making actual deliveries. It’s perhaps the harshest crackdown on delivery robots in the United States—again, this in the city that gave the world an app that sends someone to your car to park it for you.
Actually, delivery robots are a bit like that, though far more advanced and less insufferable. Like self-driving cars, they see their world with a range of sensors, including lasers. Order food from a participating restaurant and a worker will load up your order into the robot and send it on its way. At the moment, a human handler will follow with a joystick, should something go awry. But these machines are actually pretty good at finding their way around. Once one gets to your place, you unlock it with a PIN, grab your food, and send the robot on its way.
Because an operator is following the robot at all times, you might consider the robot to be a fancied-up, slightly more autonomous version of a person pushing a shopping cart. “But that's not the business model that they're going after,” says San Francisco Supervisor Norman Yee, who spearheaded the legislation. “The business model is basically get as many robots out there to do deliveries and somebody in some office will monitor all these robots. So at that point you're inviting potential collisions with people.”
Unlike self-driving cars, or at least self-driving cars working properly, these bots roll on sidewalks, not streets. That gives them the advantage of not dealing with the high-speed chaos of roads, other than crossing intersections, but also means they have to deal with the cluttered chaos of sidewalks. Just think about how difficult it can be for you as a human to walk the city. Now imagine a very early technology trying to do it. (Requests for comment sent to three delivery robot companies—Dispatch, Marble, and Starship—were not immediately returned.)
San Francisco Tries to Ban Delivery Robots Before They Flatten Someone's Toes
The Crazy-Hard Technical Challenges of Robots Delivering Falafel
This Delivery Robot Isn’t Just Charming. It’s Stuffed With Pizza
What happened in that Board of Supervisors meeting was the manifestation of a new kind of anxiety toward the robots roaming among us. Just this last year has seen an explosion in robotics, as the machines escape the lab (thanks in part to cheaper, more powerful sensors) and begin rolling and walking in the real world. They've arrived quickly and with little warning.
And that’s made folks both curious and uneasy. Go to a mall and you may well find a security robot scooting around keeping an eye on things. Robot nurses roam the halls of hospitals. Autonomous drones fill the air. The question is: How are we supposed to interact with these machines? It’s a weird and fundamentally different kind of relationship than you’d form with a human, and not even experts in the field of human-robot interaction are sure how this is going to play out.
The big thing is safety. Machines are stronger than us and generally unfeeling (though that’s changing with robots that have a sense of touch), and can be very dangerous if not handled correctly. Which is what spooked Yee. San Francisco’s sidewalks are bustling with pedestrians and runners and homeless people and dogs and the occasional rat stacked on a cat stacked on a dog. How can the city make sure that roaming delivery robots and citizens get along?
For San Francisco, that means a crackdown. The legislation will require delivery robots to emit a warning noise for pedestrians and observe rights of way. They’ll also need headlights, and each permittee will need to furnish proof of insurance in the forms of general liability, automotive liability, and workers’ comp.
It’s sounds so very un-Silicon Valley. You know, move fast and break things, potentially literally in the case of the delivery robots. But states including Idaho and Virginia have actually welcomed delivery robots, working with one startup to legalize and regulate them early. Though really, San Francisco can better afford to put its foot down here—it’s not like it’s hurting for startups to come in and do business.
Might that seem like San Francisco isn’t as tech-friendly as it may seem? No, says Yee. “If you want to approach delivery, figure out how to do it and be as compatible with our values here,” he says. “Could robots do other things, for instance? Could it be that somebody's accompanying a robot that's picking up used needles in the street?”
If only Silicon Valley wasn't so busy developing parking apps.
Hungry? But you don't want to deal with a human? If you live in San Francisco's Mission district, you can get your food delivered by a robot named Marble.


This story originally appeared on Grist and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
If you’re like me, you’ve probably been ignoring the bitcoin phenomenon for years — because it seemed too complex, far-fetched, or maybe even too libertarian. But if you have any interest in a future where the world moves beyond fossil fuels, you and I should both start paying attention now.
Last week, the value of a single bitcoin broke the $10,000 barrier for the first time. Over the weekend, the price nearly hit $12,000. At the beginning of this year, it was less than $1,000.
If you had bought $100 in bitcoin back in 2011, your investment would be worth nearly $4 million today. All over the internet there are stories of people who treated their friends to lunch a few years ago and, as a novelty, paid with bitcoin. Those same people are now realizing that if they’d just paid in cash and held onto their digital currency, they’d now have enough money to buy a house.
That sort of precipitous rise is stunning, of course, but bitcoin wasn’t intended to be an investment instrument. Its creators envisioned it as a replacement for money itself—a decentralized, secure, anonymous method for transferring value between people.
But what they might not have accounted for is how much of an energy suck the computer network behind bitcoin could one day become. Simply put, bitcoin is slowing the effort to achieve a rapid transition away from fossil fuels. What’s more, this is just the beginning. Given its rapidly growing climate footprint, bitcoin is a malignant development, and it’s getting worse.
Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin provide a unique service: Financial transactions that don’t require governments to issue currency or banks to process payments. Writing in the Atlantic, Derek Thompson calls bitcoin an “ingenious and potentially transformative technology” that the entire economy could be built on — the currency equivalent of the internet. Some are even speculating that bitcoin could someday make the US dollar obsolete.
But the rise of bitcoin is also happening at a specific moment in history: Humanity is decades behind schedule on counteracting climate change, and every action in this era should be evaluated on its net impact on the climate. Increasingly, bitcoin is failing the test.
Digital financial transactions come with a real-world price: The tremendous growth of cryptocurrencies has created an exponential demand for computing power. As bitcoin grows, the math problems computers must solve to make more bitcoin (a process called “mining”) get more and more difficult—a wrinkle designed to control the currency’s supply.
Today, each bitcoin transaction requires the same amount of energy used to power nine homes in the US for one day. And miners are constantly installing more and faster computers. Already, the aggregate computing power of the bitcoin network is nearly 100,000 times larger than the world’s 500 fastest supercomputers combined.
The total energy use of this web of hardware is huge—an estimated 31 terawatt-hours per year. More than 150 individual countries in the world consume less energy annually. And that power-hungry network is currently increasing its energy use every day by about 450 gigawatt-hours, roughly the same amount of electricity the entire country of Haiti uses in a year.
‘I Forgot My PIN’: An Epic Tale of Losing $30,000 in Bitcoin
How to Keep Your Bitcoin Safe and Secure
Bitcoin Makes Even Smart People Feel Dumb
That sort of electricity use is pulling energy from grids all over the world, where it could be charging electric vehicles and powering homes, to bitcoin-mining farms. In Venezuela, where rampant hyperinflation and subsidized electricity has led to a boom in bitcoin mining, rogue operations are now occasionally causing blackouts across the country. The world’s largest bitcoin mines are in China, where they siphon energy from huge hydroelectric dams, some of the cheapest sources of carbon-free energy in the world. One enterprising Tesla owner even attempted to rig up a mining operation in his car, to make use of free electricity at a public charging station.
In just a few months from now, at bitcoin’s current growth rate, the electricity demanded by the cryptocurrency network will start to outstrip what’s available, requiring new energy-generating plants. And with the climate conscious racing to replace fossil fuel-base plants with renewable energy sources, new stress on the grid means more facilities using dirty technologies. By July 2019, the bitcoin network will require more electricity than the entire United States currently uses. By February 2020, it will use as much electricity as the entire world does today.
This is an unsustainable trajectory. It simply can’t continue.
There are already several efforts underway to reform how the bitcoin network processes transactions, with the hope that it’ll one day require less electricity to make new coins. But as with other technological advances like irrigation in agriculture and outdoor LED lighting, more efficient systems for mining bitcoin could have the effect of attracting thousands of new miners.
It’s certain that the increasing energy burden of bitcoin transactions will divert progress from electrifying the world and reducing global carbon emissions. In fact, I’d guess it probably already has. The only question at this point is: by how much?
The blockchain. Everyone's talking about it. But what is it, how does it work, and what's it for?


Go ahead, hit that BUY NOW button. Procure that sweater or TV or pillow that looks like a salmon fillet. Hit that button and fulfill the purpose of a hardworking warehouse robot.
Just know this: the more you rely on online shopping, the more online retailers rely on robots to deliver those products to you. Robots shuttle cabinets of goods around warehouses. Other robots scan barcodes to do inventory. And, increasingly, robotic arms do what once only humans could: Sort through a vast array of oddly-shaped objects to compile large orders, all to be shipped to you, dear consumer.
“To my mind, the big story in 2017 has been an inflection point in e-commerce,” says roboticist Ken Goldberg of UC Berkeley. “Companies like Amazon and others are now delivering products at an unprecedented rate, something like 500 packages per second. And that is only going to grow.”
And evolve. Working robots no longer just lift heavy objects or weld or do other large, brute-force tasks. The new breed of robot rolling through fulfillment centers like Amazon’s is more advanced, more nuanced—and more collaborative. And while automating parts of these processes makes order fulfillment cheaper for e-tailers (and, consequently, you), it’s also fueling a robotic renaissance that will have implications far beyond the warehouse.
When we think of factory robots, we think of the machines doing the exhausting bits—like rolling around fetching items—while the humans do what they do best: manipulation. This paradigm continues to exist. A human remains in charge of the crucial (and surprisingly complex) final step of actually filling boxes because nothing can beat the dexterity of the human hand. For now, at least. The machines are making rapid progress on that front.
That’s due in part to Amazon’s Picking Challenge, in which teams put their manipulative robots to work. This has helped bridge a divide between academia and industry. “Robotics for the longest time has been really just about research, and not about putting things in the real world because it was too hard,” says UC Berkeley roboticist Pieter Abbeel, whose new company Embodied Intelligence is on a quest to make industrial robots smarter. “And I think the Amazon Picking Challenge is kind of one of those things where people are saying, Wow, this is a real-world thing, a real need and we can do research on this.”
At a San Francisco startup called Kindred, for example, engineers are teaching robots to do that final step of fulfillment. Using a technique called imitation learning, engineers steer the robot to show how best to grasp a wide range of objects you’d find at a marketplace like Amazon. “Some are soft and squishy, some are hard, some are heavy, some are soft,” says George Babu, co-founder of Kindred. “And there's no way you can program that.”
Then a second technique, known as reinforcement learning, kicks in. The robot takes what it’s learned and through trial and error further hones it, both for speed and accuracy. Theoretically this would not only supercharge the fulfillment process, but make it more flexible. For instance if you’re a clothing retailer and winter rolls around, you’ll need to teach the robot to handle bulkier items like coats. (Kindred is running a pilot program at the Gap.) Why write out a bunch of complicated new code when you show the robot how to adapt?
But even in a relatively structured environment like a fulfillment center, the machines face plenty of obstacles. Some of them literal, like the humans they’re working with.
The need for increased collaboration between human and robot is forcing companies to look closely at how they integrate autonomous machines into the workforce. For Amazon and its 100,000 working robots, that has meant doing something very human: listening. Workers were a vocal part of the onboarding process. “Our associates actually got as granular as giving feedback on the fabric of the shelf and the color of the pods,” says Amazon spokesperson Nina Lindsey. “And that design has actually made it more efficient for our associates to find items.”
Which to a cynic might sound like workers willingly hastening the demise of their jobs. But in the near term, that’s not what’s going on here. Amazon has ramped up its hiring of humans right alongside its hiring of robots. And there is very much a place for humans as there is a place for robots. “Technology is extremely good at performing tasks that people do, but jobs are more than tasks,” says David Schatsky, managing director at Deloitte and co-author of a new report on robots in the workplace. “So jobs will change, but I don't see a wholesale elimination of lots and lots of job categories.”
Still, the automation of jobs is nothing new. Consider that at the end of the 1700s in America, 90 percent of workers toiled in agriculture. Fast forward to 2012, and that number is 1.5 percent. Warehouse work is fundamentally different, but it's not hard to see a time in the near future where increasingly sophisticated robots stop being collaborative and start replacing humans on the line. Whether that means those humans shift into more creative work, or they end up supervising the machines, will depend on the job.
What Is a Robot?
This Robot Tractor Is Ready to Disrupt Construction
Inside SynTouch, the Mad Lab Giving Robots the Power to Feel
So here we have the convergence of several factors that have kicked off a robotic renaissance. For one, the sensors that allow the robots to navigate a chaotic environment have gotten way cheaper at the same time as they’ve gotten way more powerful. Two, AI has vastly improved. And three, there’s money to be made—lots of it. E-commerce just keeps growing and growing, perhaps hitting $600 billion a year by 2020 in the US alone.
Which is not to say the e-commercers get to have all the fun. Expect the technologies developed for order fulfillment to spill out into the real world. The companion robots that have begun invading our homes will navigate better and better, taking a cue from their warehouse comrades. The machines will get all the smarter and easier for regular folk to teach, perhaps thanks to companies like Embodied Intelligence and Kindred. And that elusive dream of robotics, getting the machines to recognize and grip and manipulate a wide range of objects, could well come about because it’ll make someone in e-commerce a lot of money.
So go ahead, hit that BUY NOW button. The machines (and capitalists) thank you.
Robot co-workers and artificial intelligence assistants are becoming more common in the workplace. Could they edge human employees out? What then?


At HRL Laboratories in Malibu, California, materials scientist Hunter Martin and his team load a grey powder as fine as confectioner’s sugar into a machine. They’ve curated the powder recipe—mostly aluminum, blended with some other elements—down to the atom. The machine, a 3-D metal printer, lays the powder down a single dusting at time, while a laser overhead welds the layers together. Over several hours, the machine prints a small block the size of brownie.
HRL’s parent companies, Boeing and General Motors, want to 3-D print intricate metal parts in mass for their sleek new generation of cars and planes. Airbus has already installed the first-ever 3-D printed metal part on a commercial airplane, a bracket that attaches to its wings. But the tech is limited by the quality of today's metal powders, says Martin. Most useful alloys aren’t printable because the atoms in the powder grains don’t stack correctly—leading to a weak, brittle weld.
So Martin’s group, which largely works at Boeing and GM’s forward-thinking HRL’s Sensors and Materials Laboratory, figured out how to alter the recipe of a strong alloy so it was compatible with a 3-D printer. Their secret weapon: a machine learning software made by Bay Area-based company, Citrine Informatics. It turns out, algorithms can learn enough chemistry to figure out what materials Boeing should use in their next airplane body.
Martin's test block took more than 2 years of work. Scanning through the periodic table, his team came up with 10 million possible recipes for improving the powder. Then, they had to figure out which ones to try to make—using Citrine’s machine learning algorithms.
When companies upgrade their products—the next Prius, smartphone, or raincoat—they first consider how to upgrade the materials they’re made of. They could be improving quality, like making a harder glass for the iPhone, or figuring out how to make a cheaper battery. “Everything has to start with, what are we going to make it out of?” says materials scientist Liz Holm of Carnegie Mellon University, who has collaborated with Citrine in the past.
But historically, this process takes forever. If you were trying to make a more efficient LED, you’d use your years of materials science experience to pick an initial semiconductor recipe, and then you’d tweak it ad nauseum for years, until the material fit all your criteria. “You know the scientific method,” says Greg Mulholland, the CEO of Citrine. “You come up with a hypothesis; you test it; you conclude something. And you start over.”
So in 2013, when Mulholland was still in business school, he and Citrine co-founders Bryce Meredig and Kyle Michel thought they could speed up that process. A crucial step is to pick the first recipe in the right ballpark, which usually takes the touch of an experienced researcher who has worked with similar materials for years. But instead of relying on one scientist’s limited experience, why not ask an algorithm fed with decades of experimental data?
To create these algorithms, they had to trawl for the data from those decades of experiments. They wrote software to scan and convert the data printed in heavy reference books from another era. They fed their algorithms the results of supercomputer simulations of exotic crystals. They built a friendly user interface, where a researcher can select from drop-down menus and toggle buttons to describe the type of material they want. Other than HRL, the Citrine team has partnered with clients such as Panasonic, Darpa, and various national labs in the last four years.
But even still, materials science projects suffer from a lack of data. “We have to do some creative things to really make the most of the data available,” says Mulholland.  Unlike, say, the algorithms underpinning Google Translate, which are trained with millions of words, you might only have a thousand data points or fewer for a class of materials. Some companies want to work with materials only discovered a few years ago. To give the algorithms more to work with, Mulholland’s team teaches the algorithms general rules about physics and chemistry.
Sometimes they even have to resort to handwritten data. “There are times when we have to scan papers and notebooks from our customers, which is truly awful,” says Mulholland. “The norm is close to what my lab notebooks used to look like. It’s a series of hard-to-read notes, interspersed with chemicals dripped onto pages.”
A Freaky Anti-Rubber Is Still Weirding Scientists Out
Physicists Teach AI to Identify Exotic States of Matter
A Material From Shapeshifting Planes Could Heal Human Flesh
Luckily, they didn’t have to go that far with Martin’s group. Martin found out about Citrine when Meredig, Citrine’s chief science officer, gave a talk at his graduate school. They figured out that Citrine could predict what atoms to add to their alloy to improve weldability. For example, the algorithm could ballpark the optimal size of the atoms and and the type of chemical bonds they’d need to form. The software helped Martin’s team rule out most of the 10 million proposed recipes to a manageable 100. Conventionally, this process would have taken place in the lab over iterations of experiments. “What would’ve taken years, it narrowed it down to days,” Martin says.
Using those new powder formulations, they printed several prototype blocks and tested their strength. When they examined the blocks under microscopes and pulled them with thousands of pounds of force, they passed the test.
But as smart as the Citrine software is, it’s not going to replace human expertise, says William Paul King of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, who was not involved in the research. Martin’s team couldn’t just tell the software, “Fix this unweldable powder!” They had to tell the algorithm explicitly what chemical properties they were looking for. “It required significant expertise from them,” says King.
Instead, it makes it possible for materials scientists to use more of the institutional knowledge they’ve built for decades. “It shouldn’t take 100 years to have really advanced answers to a lot of these materials science questions,” says Mulholland. “It should take five to 10 years. Or shorter than that in some cases.” In answering Martin’s 3-D printing question—Citrine knocked that down to days.
It’s tough work for pairs of humans who install each of the 60,000 rivets that keep Boeing's 777 from falling apart in midair, so they’re getting some help from pairs of robots on the plane production line.


It took a while, but Russia finally got body-checked out of the Olympic Games. The road to ruin began in 2015, when two Russian track athletes-turned-whistleblowers raised suspicion about widespread state-sponsored doping at the 2012 London Games, followed by an independent report about problems at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics. Now, the International Olympic Committee has slammed the door on Russia's Olympic dreams, accusing the country of running a state-sponsored program involving more than a thousand athletes since 2011. The Russian team and all of its sports officials were banned from the upcoming winter games in PyeongChang, South Korea, in February, although individual Russian athletes who prove they are clean could compete under a neutral flag.
IOC president Thomas Bach announced the ban at a press conference in Lausanne, Switzerland Tuesday, citing a 17-month investigative report by Samuel Schmid, Switzerland’s former president. “The report clearly lays out an unprecedented attack on the integrity of the Olympic games and sport,” Bach said. “As an athlete myself, I’m feeling very sorry for all the clean athletes who have suffered from this manipulation.”
Despite the earlier warnings of Russian foul play, Bach said Tuesday the IOC didn’t have all the information needed back then to make its decision. The Schmid report detailed the structure of the Russian sports bureaucracy and how it is intertwined with the Russian government. It also gave interesting details about how Russian intelligence agents were able to unlock tamper-proof urine sample bottles—using a dental instrument and a lot of hard work.
Swiss forensic investigators spent two months to unlock the secrets of the supposedly impregnable BEREG-KIT bottles. These Swiss-made bottles are considered tight after five clicks of the sealing ring, with a maximum closure of 15 clicks. But by using a long, thin pointy metal instrument, the investigators were able to jimmy open the seal by carefully inserting it into the plastic ring and pushing it up. The process left tiny scratches on the inside of the bottle—though they were only visible under a microscope. That's how they were able to identify tampering in the Sochi samples.
More than a quarter of the Russian urine samples were likely tainted or swapped out with clean urine collected from the same athletes months earlier. The report also found that suspect Russian urine samples contained high levels of salt, several times higher than found in the human body, which was used to reconstitute the urine.
The Russians didn’t invent any new performance enhancing drugs for Sochi. “They just bought them from the pharmacy,” says Mark Johnson, a San Diego-based author who has written about doping in sports. “It shows that where when you take the resources of a government, both the scientific and financial resources and their research resources and apply it to a problem, they can find a solution,” Johnson says. “If it is one athlete trying to pry open a bottle, you can’t do it.”
The culture of doping in Russia and the Soviet Union goes back to the 1960s, when success in sports brought glory to the nation. Between 1968 and 2017, Russian athletes were stripped of 50 Olympic medals—including one third of their 33 won at the Sochi games.
The IOC’s Bach said that international athletes that finished behind the Russians who doped will have a special ceremony in South Korea. “We will do our best to reorganize ceremonies in PyeongChang in 2018 to try to made up for the moment they missed on the finish line or the podium,” Bach said. “The IOC will propose or will be taking measures for a more robust anti-doping system under [the World Anti-Doping Agency] so that something like this can not happen again.”
Olympic Drug Cops Will Scan for Genetically Modified Athletes
It’ll Be Really Hard to Test for Doping at the Rio Olympics
What Would Happen if the Olympics Banned Russia?
But Johnson and other critics are skeptical that the IOC’s Russia ban or a new testing system instituted will make a difference in future Olympic games. He notes that record-breaking athletic performance—regardless of whether it is the result of drugs, or perhaps soon through gene-editing techniques—is part of what draws TV viewers, advertisers, and national prestige.
“The objective of pro sports is to entertain and push the boundaries of performance, it’s not to be a moralistic teacher or imposer of values,” says Johnson. Of course, Olympic officials beg to differ. They point to the stated "Olympism" values of fair play, ethics. and hard work.
But sports and national prestige will always go together, and Russians have long since decided doping is worth the risk. Vitaly Murko, Russia’s former minister of sport, was implicated in having a direct role in the doping program by the Schmid report and an earlier 2015 investigation by WADA. On Tuesday, the IOC gave him a lifetime ban. But even though Murko can’t go to the Olympics, he won't be leaving sports behind. Now the country’s deputy prime minister, he is also president of the Russian football union—and next summer, he will be an official host of Russia’s World Cup soccer tournament.
This new technology is changing the Olympic Games.


This kid doesn’t know it, but he’s kind of a big deal. Sitting in his mother’s lap, he looks at a mohawked robotic head, which periodically turns left to look at a computer screen with its big blue eyes. And the infant takes the cue, glancing at the screen, where a human avatar signs a nursery rhyme.
This boy is doing something remarkable on two levels. For one, he’s practicing a pivotal skill for his development—language—with a clever new platform that blends robotics, fancy algorithms, and brain science. And he’s doing what few humans have done before: communicating with a robot using facial cues alone.
In an ideal world, every child would get enough face-to-face communication during early development to build solid language skills, be that by way of sign language or the spoken word. The reality is, not all parents have the time to sit down and read to their kids. And for deaf children, it may be that the parents themselves have to learn to sign.
What researchers at Gallaudet University—in collaboration with Yale, the University of Southern California, and Italy’s University of D’Annunzio—have developed isn’t a substitute for interpersonal communication between parents and infants, but an experimental supplement. It’s meant to simulate the natural interaction between baby and mother or father.
What’s interesting about the developing infant mind is that natural language, no matter if it’s spoken or signed, stimulates the same areas of the brain. “The same neural sensitivities, they are processed in the identical swatches of brain tissue,” says Gallaudet neuroscientist Laura-Ann Petitto. “The brain tissue that we used to think was only responsible for sound is not the unique bastion of sound processing. It's the unique bastion of human language processing.”
With this knowledge in hand, the team can strap little brain-scanning hats to deaf infants and watch for these areas to light up. Now they know when the child truly engages in natural language. (In the world outside Look Who’s Talking, a baby can’t tell you it’s interested in what you’re saying or signing.)
What Is a Robot?
This Robot Tractor Is Ready to Disrupt Construction
Inside SynTouch, the Mad Lab Giving Robots the Power to Feel
But the team’s robot-avatar system uses a more subtle method to read the infant. A thermal camera trained on the baby’s face watches for tiny changes in temperature, which are associated with heightened awareness. Combined with face-tracking software, this can determine not just when the robot is able to direct the kid’s gaze to the avatar, but when the kid is actually engaged. And infants seem to love it—even hearing children will try to sign back to the avatar.
But why go through all the trouble of face-tracking and algorithms and doing motion-capture to build the avatar? Because interaction, even if it’s with a robot masquerading as a human, is essential to language development.
Sure, you could plop a kid in front of Sesame Street, which tries its best to engage with children, but the medium inevitably comes up short. “It's not the tablet itself, it's not the computer itself or the TV itself, it's the way it's used,” says Diane Paul, director of clinical issues in speech-language pathology at the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. “We actually want families, caregivers to be reading to their children, speaking to their children, signing, singing. We want that social interaction because it's within that context that you learn speech and language or signing skills.”
Without enough of that kind of interaction, a child’s brain doesn’t develop as it should. Now, a robot can’t replace a mother or father, but it isn’t meant to. One day it might work as a stand-in, grabbing a baby’s attention when the parents are otherwise occupied, to give the child that extra bit of language practice.
Beyond the implications for child development, the system is fascinating from a robotics perspective. Robots are notoriously bad at reading our emotions and making their own. The subtlety of human facial expressions is just too impenetrable, and robots (short of showing an animated face on a screen) have a hard time even smiling or frowning. Yet this robot, using its eyes, is able to grab the gaze of an infant and direct it to the avatar. Robot and human are communicating in a simple yet compelling way.
So sure, one day children may have sophisticated robot babysitters with sophisticated emotions and interactions. But for now, a little mohawked robot is catching the eye of a kid or two.
Mozzeria is a 100 percent deaf owned and operated pizzeria in a crowded San Francisco restaurant scene. So to stay afloat, it relies on a remarkable technology.


In the last five years, biology has undergone a seismic shift as researchers around the globe have embraced a revolutionary technology called gene editing. It involves the precise cutting and pasting of DNA by specialized proteins—inspired by nature, engineered by researchers. These proteins come in three varieties, all known by their somewhat clumsy acronyms: ZFNs, TALENs, and CRISPRs. But it’s Crispr, with its elegant design and simple cell delivery, that’s most captured the imagination of scientists. They’re now using it to treat genetic diseases, grow climate-resilient crops, and develop designer materials, foods, and drugs.
So how does it work?
When people refer to Crispr, they're probably talking about Crispr-Cas9, a complex of enzymes and genetic guides that together finds and edits DNA. But Crispr on its own just stands for Clustered Regularly Interspaced Palindromic Repeats—chunks of regularly recurring bits of DNA that arose as an ancient bacterial defense system against viral invasions.
Viruses work by taking over a cell, using its machinery to replicate until it bursts. So certain bacteria evolved a way to fight back. They deployed waves of DNA-cutting proteins to chop up any viral genes floating around. If the bacteria survived the attacks, they'd incorporate tiny snippets of virus DNA into their own genomes—like a mug shot of every foe they’d ever come across, so they could spot each one quicker in the future. To keep their genetic memory palace in order, they spaced out each bit of viral code (so-called “guide RNAs”) with those repetitive, palindromic sequences in between. It doesn't really matter that they read the same forward and backward; the important thing is that they helped file away genetic code from viral invaders past, far away from more essential genes.
And having them on file meant that the next time a virus returned, the bacteria could send out a more powerful weapon. They could equip Cas9—a lumpy, clam-shaped DNA-cutting protein—with a copy of that guide RNA, pulled straight out of storage. Like a molecular assassin, it would go out and snip anything that matched the genetic mug shot.
That’s what happens in the wild. But in the lab, scientists have harnessed this powerful Crispr system to do things other than fight off the flu. The first step is designing a guide RNA that can sniff out a particular block of code in any living cell—say, a genetic defect, or an undesirable plant trait. If that gene consists of a string of the bases A, A, T, G, C, scientists make a complementary strand of RNA: U, U, A, C, G. Then they inject this short sequence of RNA, along with Cas9, into the cell they’re trying to edit. The guide RNA forms a complex with Cas9; one end of the RNA forms a hairpin curve that keeps it stuck in the protein, while the other end—the business end—dangles out to interact with any DNA it comes across.
Scientists Crispr the First Human Embryos in the US (Maybe)
Crispr Is Getting Better. Now It's Time to Ask the Hard Ethical Questions
Scientists Upload a Galloping Horse GIF Into Bacteria With Crispr
Once in the cell's nucleus, the Crispr-Cas9 complex bumps along the genome, attaching every time it comes across a small sequence called PAM. This “protospacer adjacent motif” is just a few base pairs, but Cas9 needs it to grab onto the DNA. And by grabbing it, the protein is able to destabilize the adjacent sequence, unzipping just a little bit of the double helix. That allows the guide RNA to slip in and sniff around to see if it's a match. If not, they move on. But if every base pair lines up to the target sequence, the guide RNA triggers Cas9 to produce two pincer-like appendages, which cut the DNA in two.
The process can stop there, and simply take a gene out of commission. Or, scientists can add a bit of replacement DNA—to repair a gene instead of knocking it out.
And they don't have to limit themselves to just Cas9. There's a whole bunch of proteins that can use an RNA guide. There's Cas3, which gobbles up DNA Pac-Man style. Scientists are using it to develop targeted antibiotics that can wipe out a strain of C. diff, while leaving your gut microbiome intact. And there's an enzyme called Cas13 that works with a guide that gloms onto RNA, not DNA. Called Sherlock, the system is being used to develop sensitive tests for viral infections. Researchers are working hard to add more implements to the Crispr toolkit, but at least right now, Cas9 is still the most widely used.
Crispr isn’t perfect; sometimes the protein veers off course and makes cuts at unintended sites. So scientists are actively working on ways to minimize these off-target effects. And as it gets better, the ethical questions surrounding the technology are going to get a lot thornier. Hello, designer babies?! Figuring out where those lines get drawn is going to take more than science; it will require policymakers and the public coming to the table. Because pretty soon with Crispr, the question won’t be can we do it, but should we?
CRISPR is a new biomedical technique that enables powerful gene editing. WIRED challenged biologist Neville Sanjana to explain CRISPR to 5 different people; a child, a teen, a college student, a grad student, and a CRISPR expert.


During Sunday's NFL game between the Seattle Seahawks and the Philadelphia Eagles, Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson makes a pretty nice move. After taking the ball and running with it, he makes a quick pitch off to the side while faking out the defender. Looks pretty cool, but it probably wasn't legal. In the NFL, once you cross the line of scrimmage you can only toss the ball backward. This should have been a penalty for an illegal forward pass, but it looks like he got away with it.
https://twitter.com/NFL/status/937533538013868032
But was it really a forward pass? Yes. It's not so easy to tell if you watch this in real time, but going frame by frame it's much clearer. Wilson tosses the ball when he is at the 46 and a half yard line. The running back (Mike Davis) catches it at 47.5 yard line. That's a pass that goes 1 yard forward—so a forward pass.
Just to further drive home the point, I can use my favorite video analysis techniques (using Tracker Video Analysis) to get the position of both Wilson and the ball as he runs down the field. Check this out.
In this plot, the red data shows the position of Russell Wilson in the direction of the field (x-direction) and the blue data is the position of the ball. Just for fun, I can also fit a linear function to the data (for straight parts) to get the velocity in that direction. During the toss, Wilson is running at 4.55 m/s (10.2 mph) while the ball has an x-velocity of 1.27 m/s. But since both the ball has a positive x-velocity, it is indeed a forward pass. Illegal.
It's OK if you thought it was a backward pass. It's also OK if Russell Wilson thought it was a backward pass—because in the reference frame of the quarterback, it is a backward pass. Let me give a simple analogy.
Suppose you are in a car driving 30 mph along a road.  While it's driving, you take a football and throw it backward from car with a speed of 10 mph. From your viewpoint (in the car moving 30 mph), it looks like the ball is traveling in the backward direction at 10 mph. However, if you were on the ground (and stationary) looking at the car, the ball would still be moving forward with a speed of 20 mph (30 mph – 10 mph = 20 mph).
This is exactly what's going on here.  We (as humans) tend to view the ball with respect to the moving thrower. On top of this, the camera pans with the motion of the runner. This also encourages us to view from the reference frame of the runner. So, in a sense we are tricked into thinking it's a backward pass.
Maybe this will help. Here is an animation with a stationary world view such is how it would appear if the camera didn't move.
From this view, it's much clearer that the ball moves forward. Velocity is always relative to your frame of reference. But of course, it's only a penalty if the referees decide to flag it.
A physics professor re-imagines the size and shape of an NFL football in an effort to optimize it for flight. It turns out a couple of small changes can add a whole lot of distance, but how would that change the way the game is played?


On July 1, 2013, Amos Joseph Wells III went to his pregnant girlfriend's home in Fort Worth, Texas and shot her multiple times in the head and stomach. He then killed her mother and her 10-year-old brother. Wells surrendered voluntarily within hours, and in a tearful jailhouse interview told reporters, "There's no explanation that I could give anyone, or anybody could give anyone, to try to make it seem right, or make it seem rational, to make everybody understand."
Heinous crimes tend to defy comprehension, but some researchers believe neuroscience and genetics could help explain why certain people commit such atrocities. Meanwhile, lawyers are introducing so-called neurobiological evidence into court more than ever.
Take Wells, for instance. His lawyers called on Pietro Pietrini—director of the IMT School for Advanced Studies in Lucca, Italy and an expert on the neurobiological correlates of antisocial behavior—to testify at their client's trial last year. “Wells had several abnormalities in the frontal regions of his brain, plus a very bad genetic profile," says Pietrini. Scans of the defendant's brain showed abnormally low neuronal activity in his frontal lobe, a condition associated with increased risk of reactive, aggressive, and violent behavior. In Pietrini's estimation, that "bad genetic profile" consisted of low MAOA gene activity—a trait long associated with aggression in people raised in abusive environments—and five other notable genetic variations. To differing degrees, they're linked with a susceptibility to violent behavior, impulsivity, risk-taking, and impaired decision-making.
"What we tried to sustain was that he had some evidence of a neurobiological impairment that would affect his brain function, decision making, and impulse control," Pietrini says. "And this, we hoped, would spare him from the death penalty."
It did not. On November 3, 2016, a Tarrant County jury found Wells guilty of capital murder. Two weeks later, the same jury deliberated Wells' fate for just four hours before sentencing him to die. The decision, as mandated by Texas law, was unanimous.
In front of a different judge or another jury, Wells might have avoided the death penalty. In 2010, lawyers used a brain-mapping technology called quantitative electroencephalography to try to convince a Dade City, Florida jury that defendant Grady Nelson was predisposed to impulsiveness and violence when he stabbed his wife 61 times before raping and stabbing her 11-year-old daughter. The evidence's sway over at least two jurors locked the jury in a 6-6 split over whether Nelson should be executed, resulting in a recommendation of life without parole.
Nelson's was one of nearly 1,600 court cases examined in a recent analysis of neurobiological evidence in the US criminal justice system. The study, by Duke University bioethicist Nita Farahany, found that the number of judicial opinions mentioning neuroscience or behavioral genetics more than doubled between 2005 and 2012, and that roughly 25 percent of death penalty trials employ neurobiological data in pursuit of a lighter sentence.
Farahany's findings also suggest defense attorneys are applying neuroscientific findings to more than capital murder cases; lawyers are increasingly introducing neuroscientific evidence in cases ranging from burglary and robbery to kidnapping and rape.
"Neuro cases without a doubt are increasing, and they're likely to continue increasing over time" says Farahany, who adds that people appear to be particularly enamored of brain-based explanations. "It’s a much simpler sell to jurors. They seem to believe that it’s much more individualized than population genetics. Also, they can see it, right? You can show somebody a brain scan and say: There. See that? That big thing, in this person’s brain? You don’t have that. I don’t have that. And it affects how this person behaves.”
And courts seem to be buying it. Farahany found that between 20 and 30 percent of defendants who invoke neuroscientific evidence get some kind of break on appeal—a higher success rate than one sees in criminal appeals, in general. (A 2010 analysis of nearly 70,000 US criminal appeals found that only about 12 percent of cases wound up being reversed, remanded, or modified.) At least in the instances Farahany investigated (a small sample, she notes, of criminal cases, 90 percent of which never go to trial), neurobiological evidence seemed to have a small but positive impact on defendants' outcomes.
The looming question—scientifically, legally, philosophically—is whether it should.
Many scientists and legal experts question whether neurobiological evidence belongs in court in the first place. "Most of the time, the science isn’t strong enough," says Stephen Morse, professor of law and psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania.
Morse calls this the "clear cut" problem: Where the defendant's mental and behavioral state are obvious, you don’t need neurobiological evidence to support it. But in cases where the behavioral evidence is unclear, the brain data or genetic data aren't exact enough to serve as diagnostic markers. "So where we need the help most—where it’s a gray area case, and we’re simply not sure whether the behavioral impairment is sufficient—the scientific data can help us least," says Morse. "Maybe this will change over time, but that’s where we are now.”
You don't have to look hard to see his point. To date, no brain abnormality or genetic variation has been shown to have a deterministic effect on a person's behavior, and it's reasonable to assume that one never will. Medicine, after all, is not physics; your neurobiological state cannot predict that you will engage in violent, criminal, or otherwise antisocial activity, as any researcher will tell you.
But some scientific arguments appear to be more persuasive than others. Brain scans, for example, seem to hold greater sway over the legal system than behavioral genetic analyses. "Most of the evidence right now suggests that genetic evidence, alone, isn’t having much influence on judges and juries," says Columbia psychiatrist Paul Appelbaum, co-author of a recent review, published in Nature Human Behavior, that examines the use of such evidence in criminal court. Juries, he says, might not understand the technical intricacies of genetic evidence. Conversely, juries may simply believe genetic predispositions are irrelevant in determining someone's guilt or punishment.
Still another explanation could be what legal researchers call the double-edged sword phenomenon. "The genetic evidence might indicate a reduced degree of responsibility for my behavior, because I have a genetic variant that you don’t, but at the same time suggest that I'm more dangerous than you are. That if I really can't control my behavior, maybe I'm exactly the kind of person who should be locked up for a longer period of time," Appelbaum says. Whatever the reason for genetic evidence's weak impact, Appelbaum predicts its use in court—absent complementary neurological evidence—will decrease.
That's not necessarily a bad thing. There's considerable disagreement within the scientific community over the influence of so-called gene-environment interactions on human behavior, including ones believed to affect people like Amos Wells.
In their 2014 meta-analysis of the two most commonly studied genetic variants linked to aggression and antisocial behavior (both of which Wells possesses), Emory University psychologists Courtney Ficks and Irwin Waldman concluded that the variants appear to play a "modest" role in antisocial behavior. But they also identified numerous examples of studies bedeviled by methodological and interpretive flaws, susceptibility to error, loose standards for replication, and evidence of publication bias. "Notwithstanding the excitement that many researchers have felt at the prospect of [gene-environment] interactions in the development of complex traits, there is growing evidence that we must be wary of these findings," the researchers wrote.
So then. What should a jury consider in the case of someone like Amos Wells? In his expert report, Pietrini cited Ficks and Waldman's analysis—and more than 80 other papers—to emphasize the modest role of genetic variation in antisocial behavior. And in their cross examination, the prosecution went through several of Pietrini's citations line by line, calling for circumspection. They pointed to the Ficks paper, for instance. They also quoted excerpts that cast behavioral genetics findings in an uncertain light. Lines like this one, from a 2003 paper in Nature about the association of gene variants with anger-related traits: "Nevertheless, our findings warrant further replication to avoid any spurious associations for the example due to the ethnic stratification effects and sampling errors."
Pietrini chuckles when I recount the prosecution's criticisms. "You look at the discussion section of any medical study, and you'll find sentences like that: Needs more research. Needs a larger sample size. Needs to be replicated. Warrants caution. But it doesn't mean that what's been observed is wrong. It means that, as scientists, we're always cautious. Medical science is only ever proven true by history, but Amos Wells, from my point of view, had many genetic and neurological factors that impaired his mental ability. I say that not because I was a consultant to the defense, but in absolute terms."
To Protect Genetic Privacy, Encrypt Your DNA
Biohackers Encoded Malware in a Strand of DNA
Cheap DNA Sequencing Is Here. Writing DNA Is Next
Pietrini's point gets to the heart of a question still tackled by researchers and legal scholars: When do scientific findings become worthy of legal consideration?
The general assumption is that the same standards that guide the scientific community should guide the law, says Drexel University legal professor Adam Benforado, author of Unfair: The New Science of Criminal Injustice. "But I think that probably shouldn't be the case," he says. "I think when someone is facing the death penalty, they ought to have a right to present neuroscientific or genetic research findings that may not be entirely settled but are sound enough to be published in peer reviewed literature. Because at the end of the day, when someone's life is at stake, to wait for things to be absolutely settled is dangerous. The consequences of inaction are too grave."
That's basically the Supreme Court's stance, too. In the US, the bar for admissibility on mitigating evidence in death penalty proceedings is very low, owing to a Supreme Court ruling in the 1978 trial of Lockett against Ohio. "Essentially, the kitchen sink comes in. And in very few death penalty proceedings will the judge make a searching inquiry into relevance," says Morse, who begrudgingly agrees that neurobiological evidence should be admissible in capital cases, because so much is at stake. "I'd rather it wasn't, because I think it debases the legal process," he says, adding that most neuroscientific and genetic evidence introduced at capital proceedings has more rhetorical relevance than legal relevance.
"What they’re doing is making what I call the fundamental psycho-legal error. This is the belief that once you have found a partially causal explanation for a behavior, then the behavior must be excused altogether. All behavior has causes, including causes at the biological, psychological, and sociological level. But causation is not an excusing condition." If it were, Morse says, no one would be responsible for any behavior.
But that is not the world we live in. Today, in most cases, the law holds people responsible for their actions, not their predispositions. As Wells told his relatives in the courtroom after his sentence was handed down: "I did this. I'm an adult. Don't bear this burden. This burden is mine."
CRISPR is a new biomedical technique that enables powerful gene editing. WIRED challenged biologist Neville Sanjana to explain CRISPR to 5 different people; a child, a teen, a college student, a grad student, and a CRISPR expert.


Maybe you have watched Stranger Things but maybe you haven't. I've seen it, and I thought it was great—and not just because there's lots of science in it. Don't worry, I'm not going to talk about multiple universes or quantum tunneling. Instead I am going to talk about salt.
Small spoiler alert (but not really a spoiler): In season 1, the Stranger Things kids need to build a makeshift sensory deprivation tank. The essential component of this "tank" is a kiddie pool filled with water such that a person can easily float. Of course, normal water will make a human just barely float. To fix this problem, they add a bunch of salt to increase the liquid density to accommodate a floating human. According to Mr. Clark (their science teacher), they need 1,500 pounds of salt.
But was he right? Let's take a look at the science.
Why do things float? If an object is stationary at the surface of water (or any liquid), then the net force on that object is zero. Of course there is a gravitational force pulling down, so that must mean there is some other force (with an equal magnitude) pushing up. That force is the buoyancy force. But how does it work? Let's start with an example.
Here is a block of water floating in water. Yes, water floats.
In this diagram, the yellow arrows represent the rest of the water pushing on this floating block of water. The water pushes on the block in all directions and this force increases with depth. Notice that the forces from the water on the sides have to cancel (since they are balanced). However, the forces pushing up from the bottom are greater than the forces pushing down from the top. But since the block of water is floating, the net upward buoyancy force must be equal to the gravitational force pulling down.
Now replace the block of water with something else—it doesn't matter what it is made of as long as it is the exact same shape. If it's the exact same size, it must have the same buoyancy force on it. If the block is made of steel, the upward buoyancy force is going to be less than the downward gravitational force such that the steel will sink instead of float—but the buoyancy force is still there. Because a water block would float, the magnitude of this buoyancy force must be equal to the weight of the water the object displaces—this is Archimede's principle.
The weight of the water displaced depends on three things: the volume of the object, the density of the liquid (physicists like to use the Greek leter ρ for this) and the value of the gravitational field g. Putting this all together, the buoyancy can be written as:
But wait! What if an object is not completely submerged? What if the object is a block of wood or maybe a girl named Eleven? If the weight of the object is less than the weight of the water displaced then the buoyancy force will be greater and push the block up. It will keep moving up until part of the block is out of the water. The part of the block that is out of the water doesn't produce any buoyancy—so eventually the block will reach equilibrium with part of the object underwater and part above.
The fraction of the block that sticks above the water depends on two things: the density of the object and the density of the water. Let's do a quick example. Suppose I have a wood block with density ρb in water with density ρw.  Just for simplicity, it's a cubic block of length L. This is what it might look like.
Remember, the weight of the block has to be equal to the weight of the water displaced—so I will start off with the weight of the block. I know the density, so the mass (and thus the weight) can be found as ρb(L3)g. This should be equal to the weight of the water displaced with a value of ρw(L2 d)g where d is the depth of the block underwater. Notice that a lot of stuff cancels and I get:
So, the amount the block floats above the water depends on the ratio of the densities of the object and the liquid. Notice that if the object has a density equal to water, then it would float with nothing sticking out above the surface. If the density of the object was half of that of water, then have the object would stick out above the water.
This is idea is what Mr. Clark used to estimate the amount of salt to add to water. For sensory deprivation, you want to increase the density of the water such that it has a much higher density than the density of a human.
Water has a density of 1,000 kilograms per cubic meter. If you don't want to be cool, you could say the density is 1 gram per cubic centimeter but trust me—all the cool people use units of kg/m3. But what about the density of a human? It depends on the human, but it's normally a little bit less than 1,000 kg/m3 such that most humans float. Of course a human can float or sink depending on the lungs. If you take in a deep breath of air, your lungs get bigger and your density decreases. Blow all the air out of your lungs and you should sink.
How Netflix Made Stranger Things a Global Phenomenon
Stranger Things Is Based on a True Story. Kinda
Stranger Things' Creators on Season 2, Binge TV, and Foulmouthed Kids
Normal people breathe. This means that you might oscillate between floating and sinking. That would make it tough to focus on using your psionic powers to find other people (like Eleven does). You need a higher density liquid—like salt water. You might already know this, but you can more easily float in the ocean (salt water) than you can in a lake with fresh water.
So, adding salt to water will increase the density and hopefully the person can easily float.  But wait. If you add salt to water, doesn't that increase both the mass of the liquid and the volume? Actually, not really. Check this out: Here is 200 ml of water and 5 ml of salt.
What happens if I pour the salt into the water? This.
Yes, the volume of the mixture did increase a slight amount—but not by much. You can dissolve salt in water and the mass increases but not the volume. I know that seems crazy, but it's true. In fact, we like to think of water as this stuff that is continuous—but it's not. Liquid water is made of molecules of H2O and there are empty spaces between these molecules. Salt is made of sodium and chlorine atoms. When added to water, these salt crystals separate into sodium and chlorine ions that are much smaller than the water molecules so that they don't really increase the volume.
How about an analogy. Here I have two beakers. One has approximately 1,800 ml of ping pong balls and the other has about 600 ml of tiny cubes.
What happens if I mix these together?  It looks like this.
Notice that this cube-ball mixture is still about 1,800 ml. The cubes fit in the spaces left by the ping pong balls. Pretty cool, right?
So now that we know that adding salt just changes the mass (and not the volume) of water, we can change the density. Let's say that we want a human to float with 75 percent of the body underwater. What density of liquid do we need? Assuming a human density of 1,000 kg/m3, the liquid would have to be 1,333 kg/m3 (this is 1,000/0.75). In order to achieve this density, you would need to add 333 kilograms of salt for every cubic meter of water.
If I want to add salt to a kiddie pool, how much salt would that be? Let's say the pool has a diameter of 8 feet and a depth of 1.5 feet. Yes, I am using imperial units because Stranger Things takes place in the '80s—this is before they invented the metric units (just kidding). Using better units, this pool would hold 2.14 m3. That means 712 kilograms of salt. Converting to 1980s units, this is 1,569.69 pounds. Boom. Honestly, I can't believe my estimate was that close to the actual show. I guess they had a science advisor that essentially did my calculation—good job science advisor (or Mr. Clark).
'Stranger Things' stars Finn Wolfhard and Caleb McLaughlin show us the last things they did with their phones. What was the last emoji they used? The last text message sent? What was the last thing they searched?


Every year in December, a makeshift hangar at the NASA Ames Research Center pops up for one night, transforming the austere airfield into a glitzy, paparazzi’d, black velvet-roped Nerd Prom. At the Breakthrough Prizes—where on December 3, a total of $22 million was handed out to pioneers in math, physics, and the life sciences—researchers traded lab coats and latex gloves for floor-length gowns and bow-tied tuxedos. Outside it was all barbed wire and cold steel, but on the red carpet, stars and scientists alike sweated under the bright white lights and flash of cameras.
“My lab is going to be totally shocked to see me like this,” said Joanne Chory, a plant geneticist at the Salk Institute in San Diego and the only female awardee at Sunday’s prize ceremony, as she sparkled in a pink sequined shift with matching metal glasses frames. The winners, all 12 of them, had been under strict instructions not to tell any of their colleagues before hopping on planes and flying in for the event. But as the clock struck 4:30pm Pacific Time, and news began to get out, the emails started flooding in. David Spergel, a theoretical physicist at Princeton, was one of five members of the universe-cataloguing WMAP team to win the prize in physics. “There are five of us here being recognized, but 20 more on our team who just found out, they’re absolutely thrilled.”
The Nobels may be more prestigious than the Breakthroughs, but they come with a lot less money (about $2 million less, per prize). Alfred Nobel, whose fortune in the dynamite industry financed the namesake prize, hoped it might atone for his explosive contributions to science. But that isn’t the only thing that has embroiled the award in controversy from the very start. His will instructed that each prize could be awarded to only one person, only for discoveries made the preceding year, and oh, yeah, no mathematicians. While the committee tasked with carrying out his dying wishes has relaxed some of the rules over the years, the underlying framework still upholds the absurd notion that scientific advancement arrives on the back of lone geniuses.
The Breakthrough Prize was supposed to fix all that—with a spirit of inclusivity, optimism, and shiny Silicon Valley cash. Much of that prize money comes from Yuri Milner, the Russian billionaire tech investor who set up and financed the first award before convincing execs at Facebook, Google, 23andMe, and Alibaba to chip in more. (Since 2012, they’ve together awarded more than 70 $3 million prizes to research standouts.) But when the Paradise Papers were made public in early November, they revealed that behind Milner’s investments in Facebook and Twitter were hundreds of millions of dollars traced back to the Kremlin.
The Valley’s other oligarchs—Mark Zuckerberg, Sergey Brin, Sundar Pichai, Jack Dorsey—have also come under fire for their platforms’ complicity in spreading Russian misinformation during the 2016 presidential campaign. In October, the tech titans took a bipartisan beating on Capitol Hill, where members of Congress excoriated Facebook, Twitter, and Google for enabling Russian attempts to divide the American electorate and sow doubt in the democratic process.
The ensuing tech backlash is hitting hardest in Washington, where talk of regulation and anti-trust lawsuits have ticked up in recent months. In the nation’s capital, the corporate leviathans once seen as beacons of new American enterprise are increasingly portrayed as sinister centers of power, too big to be accountable. These revelations and transformations can’t help but change the perception of the wealth backing the various Breakthroughs. Perhaps anticipating this line of questioning, the event’s tech royalty were noticeably silent this year. Only Dick Costolo, previously of Twitter, braved the media corral, saying only that he was happy to be at an event that “puts scientists front and center.” Brin declined questions, as did Milner, who barely cracked a close-mouthed smile for the cameras. Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan were no-shows, though Zuck did send in a grey-hoodied video greeting that played during the award ceremony. Cori Bargmann was present, the lone, in-person representative from the couple’s philanthropic organization, CZI. This marked a striking comparison to last year, said one of the male reporters in the pool, who had found Milner an entertaining interview in 2016. “If I had known it was going to be like this, I don’t think I would have come,” he said.
With Silicon Valley’s luminaries sticking to the sidelines, it was perhaps Gavin Newsom, California’s Lieutenant Governor, who captured the moment best: “We are celebrating tonight everything that Trump’s Washington is not: facts, science, innovation, entrepreneurialism,” he said “It’s important that we show here in California that we are committed to investing in that.”
And at least for the winning scientists, the award has not yet been tainted by the backlash or the current political climate. Chory says she didn’t think twice about accepting. She’s planning to give most of the money to her kids, so that they can pay back student loan debts and buy houses. But at least a sizeable chunk will go toward turning her research into a global reality. Despite her daily battle with Parkinson’s, Chory has spent the last three decades in the lab genetically engineering crop plants like chickpeas and lentils that can pull 20 times the average amount of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and store it as a cork-like polymer deep underground.
What’s next is scaling up to the planetary level. She’s calculated that converting just 5 percent of the world’s cropland to her plants could get rid of half of global CO2 emissions. But financing field trials and seed production and distribution and farmer outreach is beyond the scope of most basic research funding mechanisms. Which is why she’s hoping the prize money will give her initiative a jump-start to bring in other grants and investors. “I’ll do my best to milk it as best I can,” says Chory, who figures the total cost for launching the project hovers around what Milner paid for his $100 million mansion, located just up the hill from the Ames red carpet. She says she appreciates being recognized, and a reason to go shopping with her family. But while she was happy to attend the evening with her kids, she’s focused on doing something to make the world they’ll inherit a less dangerous place. “I’m trying to do something now for humankind, not just to please by brain or follow a scientific curiosity. I don’t want to leave a crappy planet as my legacy.”
Bargmann, who was on this year’s selection committee for the life sciences, said the prize was, to her, as much about the future, as about moments in the past that changed science forever. “We’re honoring people tonight who totally changed a field; it was one way before they came along, and something totally different afterward.”
For the chromosome theory of human genetic inheritance, i.e. how you got the genes you got, that was Kim Nasmyth, a biochemist from Oxford who figured out how chromosomes separate during mitosis. He thought about brushing off his old wool tuxedo for the event, but ultimately opted for something newer, and less warm. In his lapel he wore a gold pin with a white cross on a red shield—a gift from the city of Vienna, where he used to work. “It’s the only piece of jewelry I own,” he said. “I thought I might as well wear it.”
While he’s thrilled to receive the award, and pay some of the money forward to a foundation that will support the next generation of scientists, he says that recognition should never be the goal of a good researcher. “Ultimately, when you get out of bed in the morning, you just want to know, to understand,” he says. “I think what drives discoveries are the mysteries that can’t be explained.”
Life Sciences(Each of the five Life Science winners will receive a $3 million prize.)
Fundamental Physics(The five winners received a single, $3 million prize, which they will share with the entire WMAP science mission team.)
Charles L. Bennett, an astrophysicist at Johns Hopkins; Gary Hinshaw, an astrophysicist at the University of British of Columbia; Norman Jarosik, a physicist at Princeton; Lyman Page Jr., a physicist at Princeton; and, David N. Spergel, an astrophysicist at Princeton, for their work building detailed maps of the early universe that redefined the evolution of the cosmos and the fluctuations that seeded the formation of galaxies.
Mathematics(The two winners will equally share a $3 million prize.)
Christopher Hacon, a mathematician at the University of Utah, and James McKernan, a mathematician at the University of California, San Diego, for their transformational contributions to birational algebraic geometry, especially to the minimal model program in all dimensions.


Anurag Acharya’s problem was that the Google search bar is very smart, but also kind of dumb. As a Googler working on search 13 years ago, Acharya wanted to make search results encompass scholarly journal articles. A laudable goal, because unlike the open web, most of the raw output of scientific research was invisible—hidden behind paywalls. People might not even know it existed. “I grew up in India, and most of the time you didn’t even know if something existed. If you knew it existed, you could try to get it,” Acharya says. “‘How do I get access?’ is a second problem. If I don’t know about it, I won’t even try.”
Acharya and a colleague named Alex Verstak decided that their corner of search would break with Google tradition and look behind paywalls—showing citations and abstracts even if it couldn’t cough up an actual PDF. “It was useful even if you did not have university access. That was a deliberate decision we made,” Acharya says.
Then they hit that dumbness problem. The search bar doesn’t know what flavor of information you’re looking for. You type in “cancer;” do you want results that tell you your symptoms aren’t cancer (please), or do you want the Journal of the American Medical Association? The search bar doesn’t know.
Acharya and Verstak didn't try to teach it. Instead, they built a spinoff, a search bar separate from Google-prime that would only look for journal articles, case law, patents—hardcore primary sources. And it worked. “We showed it to Larry [Page] and he said, ‘why is this not already out?’ That’s always a positive sign,” Acharya says.
Today, even though you can’t access Scholar directly from the Google-prime page, it has become the internet’s default scientific search engine—even more than once-monopolistic Web of Science, the National Institutes of Health’s PubMed, and Scopus, owned by the giant scientific publisher Elsevier.
But most science is still paywalled. More than three quarters of published journal articles—114 million on the World Wide Web alone, by one (lowball) estimate—are only available if you are affiliated with an institution that can afford pricey subscriptions or you can swing $40-per-article fees. In the last several years, though, scientists have made strides to loosen the grip of giant science publishers. They skip over the lengthy peer review process mediated by the big journals and just … post. Review comes after. The paywall isn’t crumbling, but it might be eroding. The open science movement, with its free distribution of articles before their official publication, is a big reason.
Another reason, though, is stealthy improvement in scientific search engines like Google Scholar, Microsoft Academic, and Semantic Scholar—web tools increasingly able to see around paywalls or find articles that have jumped over. Scientific publishing ain’t like book publishing or journalism. In fact, it’s a little more like music, pre-iTunes, pre-Spotify. You know, right about when everyone started using Napster.
Before World War II most scientific journals were published by small professional societies. But capitalism’s gonna capitalism. By the early 1970s the top five scientific publishers—Reed-Elsevier, Wiley-Blackwell, Springer, and Taylor & Francis—published about 20 percent of all journal articles. In 1996, when the transition to digital was underway and the PDF became the format of choice for journals, that number went up to 30 percent. Ten years later it was 50 percent.
Those big-five publishers became the change they wanted to see in the publishing world—by buying it. Owning over 2,500 journals (including the powerhouse Cell) and 35,000 books and references (including Gray’s Anatomy) is big, right? Well, that’s Elsevier, the largest scientific publisher in the world, which also owns ScienceDirect, the online gateway to all those journals. It owns the (pre-Google Scholar) scientific search engine Scopus. It bought Mendeley, a reference manager with social and community functions. It even owns a company that monitors mentions of scientific work on social media. “Everywhere in the research ecosystem, from submission of papers to research evaluations made based on those papers and various acts associated with them online, Elsevier is present,” says Vincent Larivière, an information scientist at the University of Montreal and author of the paper with those stats about publishing I put one paragraph back.
The company says all that is actually in the service of wider dissemination. “We are firmly in the open science space. We have tools, services, and partnerships that help create a more inclusive, more collaborative, more transparent world of research,” says Gemma Hersh,1 Elsevier’s vice president for open science. “Our mission is around improving research performance and working with the research community to do that.” Indeed, in addition to traditional, for-profit journals it also owns SSRN, a preprint server—one of those places that hosts unpaywalled, pre-publication articles—and publishes thousands of articles at various levels of openness.
So Elsevier is science publishing’s version of Too Big to Fail. As such, it has faced various boycotts, slightly piratical workarounds, and general anger. (“The term ‘boycott’ comes up a lot, but I struggle with that. If I can be blunt, I think it’s a word that’s maybe misapplied,” Hersh says. “More researchers submit to us every year, and we publish more articles every year.”)
If you’re not someone with “.edu” in your email, this might make you a little nuts. Not just because you might want to actually see some cool science, but because you already paid for that research. Your taxes (or maybe some zillionaire’s grant money) paid the scientists and funded the studies. The experts who reviewed and critiqued the results and conclusions before publication were volunteers. Then the journal that published it charged a university or a library—again, probably funded at least in part by your taxes—to subscribe. And then you gotta buy the article? Or the researcher had to pony up $2,0002 to make it open access?
Now, publishers like Elsevier will say that the process of editing, peer-reviewing, copy editing, and distribution are a major, necessary value add. And look at the flip side: so-called predatory journals that charge authors to publish nominally open-access articles with no real editing or review (that, yes, show up in search results). Still, the scientific publishing business is a $10 billion-a-year game. In 2010, Elsevier reported profits of $1 billion and a 35 percent margin. So, yeah.
In that early-digital-music metaphor, the publishers are the record labels and the PDFs are MP3s. But you still need a Napster. That’s where open-science-powered search engines come in.
A couple years after Acharya and Verstak built Scholar, a team at Microsoft built their own version, called Academic. It was at the time a much, let’s say, leaner experience, with far fewer papers available. But then in 2015, Microsoft released a 2.0, and it’s a killer.
Microsoft’s communication team declined to make any of the people who run it available, but a paper from the team at Microsoft Research lays the specs out pretty well:  It figures out the bibliographic data of papers and combines that with results from Bing. (A real search engine that exists!) And you know what? It’s pretty great. It sees 83 million papers, not so far from estimations of the size of Google’s universe, and does the same kind of natural-language queries. Unlike Scholar, people can hook into Microsoft Academic’s API and see its citation graph, too.
Even as recently as 2015, scientific search engines weren’t much use to anyone outside universities and libraries. You could find a citation to a paper, sure—but good luck actually reading it. Even though more overt efforts to subvert copyright like Sci-Hub are falling to lawsuits from places like Elsevier and the American Chemical Society, the open science movement gaining is momentum. PDFs are falling off virtual trucks all over the internet—posted on university web sites or places like ResearchGate and Academia.edu, hosts for exactly this kind of thing—Scholar’s and Academic’s first sorties against the paywall have been joined by reinforcements. It’s starting to look like a siege.
For example the Chan Zuckerberg Initative, philanthropic arm of the founder of Facebook, is working on something aimed at increasing access. The founders of Mendeley have a new, venture-backed PDF finder called Kopernio. A browser extension called Unpaywall roots around the web for free PDFs of articles.
A particularly novel web crawler comes from the non-profit Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence. Semantic Scholar pores over a corpus of 40 million citations in computer science and biomedicine, and extracts the tables and charts as well as using machine learning to infer meaningful cites as “highly influential citations,” a new metric. Almost a million people use it every month.
“We use AI techniques, particularly natural language processing and machine vision, to process the PDF and extract information that helps readers decide if the paper is of interest,” says Oren Etzioni, CEO of the Allen Institute for AI. “The net effect of all this is that more and more is open, and a number of publishers … have said making content discoverable via these search engines is not a bad thing.”
Even with all these increases in discoverability and access, the technical challenges of scientific search don’t stop with paywalls. When Acharya and Verstak started out, Google relied on PageRank, a way to model how important hyperlinks between two web pages were. That’s not how scientific citations work. “The linkage between articles is in text. There are references, and references are all approximate,” Acharya says. “In scholarship, all your citations are one way. Everybody cites older stuff, and papers never get modified.”
Plus, unlike a URL, the location or citation for a journal article is not the actual journal article. In fact, there might be multiple copies of the article at various locations. From a perspective as much philosophical and bibliographical, a PDF online is really just a picture of knowledge, in a way. So the search result showing a citation might also attach to multiple versions of the actual article.
That’s a special problem when researchers can post pre-print versions of their own work but might not have copyright to the publication of record, the peer-reviewed, copy-edited version in the journal. Sometimes the differences are small; sometimes they’re not.
Why don’t the search engines just use metadata to understand what version belongs where? Like when you download music, your app of choice automatically populates with things like an image, the artist’s name, the song titles...the data about the thing.
Biology's Roiling Debate Over Publishing Research Early
A Reboot of the Legendary Physics Site ArXiv Could Shape Open Science
Retracting Bad Science Doesn’t Make It Disappear
The answer: metadata LOL. It’s a big problem. “It varies by source,” Etzioni says. “A whole bunch of that information is not available as structured metadata.” Even when there is metadata, it’s in idiosyncratic formats from publisher to publisher and server to server. “In a surprising way, we’re kind of in the dark ages, and the problem just keeps getting worse,” he says. More papers get published; more are digital. Even specialists can’t keep up.
Which is why scientific search and open science are so intertwined and so critical. The reputation of a journal and the number of times a specific paper in that journal gets cited are metrics for determining who gets grants and who gets tenure, and by extension who gets to do bigger and bigger science. “Where the for-profit publishers and academic presses sort of have us by the balls is that we are addicted to prestige,” says Guy Geltner, a historian at the University of Amsterdam, open science advocate, and founder of a new user-owned social site for scientists called Scholarly Hub.
The thing is, as is typical for Google, Scholar is as opaque about how it works and what it finds. Acharya wouldn’t give me numbers of users or the number of papers it searches. (“It’s larger than the estimates that are out there,” he says, and “an order of magnitude bigger than when we started.) No one outside Google fully understands how the search engine applies its criteria for inclusion,3 and indeed Scholar hoovers up way more than just PDFs of published or pre-published articles. You get course syllabi, undergraduate coursework, PowerPoint presentations … actually, for a reporter, it’s kind of fun. But tricky.
That means the citation data is also obscure, which makes it hard to know what Scholar’s findings mean for science as a whole. Scholar may be a low-priority side-project (please don’t kill it like you killed Reader!) but maybe that data is going to be valuable someday. Elsevier obviously thinks it’s useful.
The scientific landscape is shifting. "If you took a group of academics right now and asked them to create a new system of publishing, nobody would suggest what we're currently doing," says David Barner, a psychologist at UC San Diego and open science advocate. But change, Barner says, is hard. The people who'd make those changes are already overworked, already volunteering their time.
Even Elsevier knows that change is coming. “Rather than scrabble around in one of the many programs you’ve mentioned, anyone can come to our Science and Society page, which details a host of programs and organizations we work with to cater through every scenario where somebody wants access,” Hersh says. And that’d be to the final, published, peer-reviewed version—the archived, permanent version of record.
Digital revolutions have a way of #disrupting no matter what. As journal articles get more open and more searchable, value will come from understanding what people search for—as Google long ago understood about the open web. “We’re a high quality publisher, but we’re also an information analytics company, evolving services that the research community can use,” Hersh says.
Because reputation and citation are core currencies to scientists, scientists have to be educated about the possibilities of open publication at the same time as prestigious, reputable venues have to exist. Preprints are great, and the researchers maintain copyright to them, but it’s also possible that the final citation-of-record could be different after it goes through review. There has to be a place where primary scientific work is available to the people who funded it, and a way for them to find it.
Because if there isn’t? “A huge part of research output is suffocating behind paywalls. Sixty-five of the 100 most cited articles in history are behind paywalls. That’s the opposite of what science is supposed to do,” Geltner says. “We’re not factories producing proprietary knowledge. We’re engaged in debates, and we want the public to learn from those debates.”
I'm sensitive to the irony of a WIRED writer talking about the social risks of a paywall, though I'd draw a distinction between paying a journalistic outlet for its journalism and paying a scientific publisher for someone else's science.
An even more critical difference, though, is that a science paywall does more than separate gown from town. When all the solid, good information is behind a paywall, what’s left outside in the wasteland will be crap—propaganda and marketing. Those are always free, because people with political agendas and financial interests underwrite them. Understanding that vaccines are critical to public health and human-driven carbon emissions are un-terraforming the planet cannot be the purview of the one percent. “Access to science is going to be a first-world privilege,” Geltner says. “That’s the opposite of what science is supposed to be about.”
1 UPDATE 12/3/17 11:55 AM Corrected the spelling of this name.
2 UPDATE 12/4/17 1:25 PM Removed the word "another;" researchers sometimes pay to make their own articles open-access.
3 UPDATE 12/4/17 1:25 PM Clarified to show that Google publishes inclusion criteria.
Senior Scientist at The Exploratorium, Paul Doherty, gives us an in depth look at technology used by the Mars Rover Curiosity.


This week’s space photos survey galaxies near and far—starting with the search for a missing arm. This pink, twinkling image is dwarf galaxy NGC 4625—and it should have at least two appendages, like most other spiral galaxies. Why? It turns out fellow nearby dwarf galaxy NGC 4618 must have interfered with the galaxy at one point, causing it to lose its outermost arm.
Next up, we’re going to stop and stare at the striking arm of our very own Milky Way galaxy, seen shooting out of the horizon of the Atacama desert in Chile. The bright bulge of light in the center is the core of the galaxy, where over half a million stars are burning, as well as a supermassive black hole. But don’t worry—our sun will have burned up long before we get sucked into oblivion.
Finally, we’re hopping to the galaxy next door, Andromeda. Astronomers were searching for a specific star in the Andromeda galaxy when they happened upon not one but two supermassive black holes. They estimate the mass of these two black holes to be 200 million times the mass of our sun.
Still want to hang out in deep space? Check out the full collection of cosmic photos here.


Glance at the night sky from a clear vantage point, and the thick band of the Milky Way will slash across the sky. But the stars and dust that paint our galaxy’s disk are an unwelcome sight to astronomers who study all the galaxies that lie beyond our own. It’s like a thick stripe of fog across a windshield, a blur that renders our knowledge of the greater universe incomplete. Astronomers call it the Zone of Avoidance.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Renée Kraan-Korteweg has spent her career trying to uncover what lies beyond the zone. She first caught a whiff of something spectacular in the background when, in the 1980s, she found hints of a potential cluster of objects on old photographic survey plates. Over the next few decades, the hints of a large-scale structure kept coming.
Late last year, Kraan-Korteweg and colleagues announced that they had discovered an enormous cosmic structure: a “supercluster” of thousands upon thousands of galaxies. The collection spans 300 million light years, stretching both above and below the galactic plane like an ogre hiding behind a lamppost. The astronomers call it the Vela Supercluster, for its approximate position around the constellation Vela.
The Milky Way, just like every galaxy in the cosmos, moves. While everything in the universe is constantly moving because the universe itself is expanding, since the 1970s astronomers have known of an additional motion, called peculiar velocity. This is a different sort of flow that we seem to be caught in. The Local Group of galaxies—a collection that includes the Milky Way, Andromeda and a few dozen smaller galactic companions—moves at about 600 kilometers per second with respect to the leftover radiation from the Big Bang.
Over the past few decades, astronomers have tallied up all the things that could be pulling and pushing on the Local Group — nearby galaxy clusters, superclusters, walls of clusters and cosmic voids that exert a non-negligible gravitational pull on our own neighborhood.
The biggest tugboat is the Shapley Supercluster, a behemoth of 50 million billion solar masses that resides about 500 million light years away from Earth (and not too far away in the sky from the Vela Supercluster). It accounts for between a quarter and half of the Local Group’s peculiar velocity.
The remaining motion can’t be accounted for by structures astronomers have already found. So astronomers keep looking farther out into the universe, tallying increasingly distant objects that contribute to the net gravitational pull on the Milky Way. Gravitational pull decreases with increasing distance, but the effect is partly offset by the increasing size of these structures. “As the maps have gone outward,” said Mike Hudson, a cosmologist at the University of Waterloo in Canada, “people continue to identify bigger and bigger things at the edge of the survey. We’re looking out farther, but there’s always a bigger mountain just out of sight.” So far astronomers have only been able to account for about 450 to 500 kilometers per second of the Local Group’s motion.
Astronomers still haven’t fully scoured the Zone of Avoidance to those same depths, however. And the Vela Supercluster discovery shows that something big can be out there, just out of reach.
In February 2014, Kraan-Korteweg and Michelle Cluver, an astronomer at the University of Western Cape in South Africa, set out to map the Vela Supercluster over a six-night observing run at the Anglo-Australian Telescope in Australia. Kraan-Korteweg, of the University of Cape Town, knew where the gas and dust in the Zone of Avoidance was thickest; she targeted individual spots where they had the best chance of seeing through the zone. The goal was to create a “skeleton,” as she calls it, of the structure. Cluver, who had prior experience with the instrument, would read off the distances to individual galaxies.
That project allowed them to conclude that the Vela Supercluster is real, and that it extends 20 by 25 degrees across the sky. But they still don’t understand what’s going on in the core of the supercluster. “We see walls crossing the Zone of Avoidance, but where they cross, we don’t have data at the moment because of the dust,” Kraan-Korteweg said. How are those walls interacting? Have they started to merge? Is there a denser core, hidden by the Milky Way’s glow?
And most important, what is the Vela’s Supercluster’s mass? After all, it is mass that governs the pull of gravity, the buildup of structure.
While the Zone’s dust and stars block out light in optical and infrared wavelengths, radio waves can pierce through the region. With that in mind, Kraan-Korteweg has a plan to use a type of cosmic radio beacon to map out everything behind the thickest parts of the Zone of Avoidance.
The plan hinges on hydrogen, the simplest and most abundant gas in the universe. Atomic hydrogen is made of a single proton and an electron. Both the proton and the electron have a quantum property called spin, which can be thought of as a little arrow attached to each particle. In hydrogen, these spins can line up parallel to each other, with both pointing in the same direction, or antiparallel, pointing in opposite directions. Occasionally a spin will flip—a parallel atom will switch to antiparallel. When this happens, the atom will release a photon of light with a particular wavelength.
The likelihood of one hydrogen atom’s emitting this radio wave is low, but gather a lot of neutral hydrogen gas together, and the chance of detecting it increases. Luckily for Kraan-Korteweg and her colleagues, many of Vela’s member galaxies have a lot of this gas.
During that 2014 observing session, she and Cluver saw indications that many of their identified galaxies host young stars. “And if you have young stars, it means they recently formed, it means there’s gas,” Kraan-Korteweg said, because gas is the raw material that makes stars.
The Milky Way has some of this hydrogen, too—another foreground haze to interfere with observations. But the expansion of the universe can be used to identify hydrogen coming from the Vela structure. As the universe expands, it pulls away galaxies that lie outside our Local Group and shifts the radio light toward the red end of the spectrum. “Those emission lines separate, so you can pick them out,” said Thomas Jarrett, an astronomer at the University of Cape Town and part of the Vela Supercluster discovery team.
This Dark Matter Theory Could Solve a Celestial Conundrum
Squishy or Solid? A Neutron Star’s Insides Open to Debate
A Mysterious Galactic Glow Hints at Hidden Pulsars
While Kraan-Korteweg’s work over her career has dug up some 5,000 galaxies in the Vela Supercluster, she is confident that a sensitive enough radio survey of this neutral hydrogen gas will triple that number and reveal structures that lie behind the densest part of the Milky Way’s disk.
That’s where the MeerKAT radio telescope enters the picture. Located near the small desert town of Carnarvon, South Africa, the instrument will be more sensitive than any radio telescope on Earth. Its 64th and final antenna dish was installed in October, although some dishes still need to be linked together and tested. A half array of 32 dishes should be operating by the end of this year, with the full array following early next year.
Kraan-Korteweg has been pushing over the past year for observing time in this half-array stage, but if she isn’t awarded her requested 200 hours, she’s hoping for 50 hours on the full array. Both options provide the same sensitivity, which she and her colleagues need to detect the radio signals of neutral hydrogen in thousands of individual galaxies hundreds of light years away. Armed with that data, they’ll be able to map what the full structure actually looks like.
Hélène Courtois, an astronomer at the University of Lyon, is taking a different approach to mapping Vela. She makes maps of the universe that she compares to watersheds, or basins. In certain areas of the sky, galaxies migrate toward a common point, just as all the rain in a watershed flows into a single lake or stream. She and her colleagues look for the boundaries, the tipping points of where matter flows toward one basin or another.
A few years ago, Courtois and colleagues used this method to attempt to define our local large-scale structure, which they call Laniakea. The emphasis on defining is important, Courtois explains, because while we have definitions of galaxies and galaxy clusters, there’s no commonly agreed-upon definition for larger-scale structures in the universe such as superclusters and walls.
Part of the problem is that there just aren’t enough superclusters to arrive at a statistically rigorous definition. We can list the ones we know about, but as aggregate structures filled with thousands of galaxies, superclusters show an unknown amount of variation.
Now Courtois and colleagues are turning their attention farther out. “Vela is the most intriguing,” Courtois said. “I want to try to measure the basin of attraction, the boundary, the frontier of Vela.” She is using her own data to find the flows that move toward Vela, and from that she can infer how much mass is pulling on those flows. By comparing those flow lines to Kraan-Korteweg’s map showing where the galaxies physically cluster together, they can try to address how dense of a supercluster Vela is and how far it extends. “The two methods are totally complementary,” Courtois added.
The two astronomers are now collaborating on a map of Vela. When it’s complete, the astronomers hope that they can use it to nail down Vela’s mass, and thus the puzzle of the remaining piece of the Local Group’s motion—“that discrepancy that has been haunting us for 25 years,” Kraan-Korteweg said. And even if the supercluster isn’t responsible for that remaining motion, collecting signals through the Zone of Avoidance from whatever is back there will help resolve our place in the universe.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
A cloud of gas and dust named G2 is headed toward the central supermassive black hole in our Milky Way. This simulation shows what the cloud could look like as it approaches and passes around the black hole.


This story originally appeared on Grist and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
It’s a sunny October day on the outskirts of the west German town of Bottrop. A quiet, two-lane road leads me through farm pasture to a cluster of anonymous, low-lying buildings set among the trees. The highway hums in the distance. Looming above everything else is a green A-frame structure with four great pulley wheels to carry men and equipment into a mine shaft. It’s the only visible sign that, almost three quarters of a mile below, Germany’s last hard coal lies beneath this spot.
Bottrop sits in the Ruhr Valley, a dense stretch of towns and suburbs home to 5.5 million people. Some 500,000 miners once worked in the region’s nearly 200 mines, producing as much as 124 million tons of coal every year.
Next year, that era will come to an end when this mine closes. The Ruhr Valley is in the midst of a remarkable transformation. Coal and steel plants have fallen quiet, one by one, over the course of the last half-century. Wind turbines have sprung up among old shaft towers and coking plants as Germany strives to hit its renewable energy goals.
But the path from dirty coal to clean energy isn’t an easy one. Bottrop’s Prosper-Haniel coal mine is a symbol of the challenges and opportunities facing Germany—and coal-producing states everywhere.
Around the world, as governments shift away from the coal that fueled two ages of industrial revolution, more and more mines are falling silent. If there’s an afterlife for retired coal mines, one that could put them to work for the next revolution in energy, it will have to come soon.
The elevator that carries Germany’s last coal miners on their daily commute down the mine shaft travels at about 40 feet a second, nearly 30 miles an hour. “Like a motorcycle in a city,” says Christof Beicke, the public affairs officer for the Ruhr mining consortium, as the door rattles shut. It’s not a comforting analogy.
The brakes release and, for a moment, we bob gently on the end of the mile-and-a-half long cable, like a boat in dock. Then we drop. After an initial flutter in my stomach, the long minutes of the ride are marked only by a strong breeze through the elevator grilles and the loud rush of the shaft going by.
When the elevator finally stops, on the seventh and deepest level of the mine, we file into a high-ceilinged room that looks like a subway platform. One of the men who built this tunnel, Hamazan Atli, leads our small group of visitors through the hall. Standing in the fluorescent light and crisp, engineered breeze, I have the uncanny sense of walking into an environment that humans have designed down to the last detail, like a space station or a submarine.
A monorail train takes us the rest of the way to the coal seam. After about half an hour, we clamber out of the cars and clip our headlamps into the brackets on our hard hats. It is noticeably warmer here. There is a sulfurous smell that grows stronger as we walk down the slight incline toward the deepest point of our day, more than 4,000 feet below the surface, and duck under the first of the hydraulic presses that keep the ceiling from collapsing on us.
Because this seam is only about five feet high, we have to hunch as we move through the tunnel of presses, stepping through deep pools of water that swallow our boots. The coal-cutting machine is stalled today, otherwise it would be chewing its way along the 310-yard-long seam, mouthparts clamped to the coal like a snail to aquarium glass. The coal would be sluiced away on a conveyor belt to the surface, and the hydraulic presses would inch forward, maintaining space for the miners to work.
Instead, the mine is eerily quiet. Two miners, their faces black, squeeze past us. As we sit, sweating and cramped under the hydraulic presses, the bare ceiling above the coal seam gives up an occasional gasp of rock, showering down dust and debris.
Later, in a brightly lit room back on the surface, Beicke from the mining consortium asks me what I thought of the mine. I tell him that it seems like an extreme environment for humans. “Yes,” he nods, “it is like an old world.”
A few days earlier, Beicke and I had trekked to the top of a hill outside the long-shuttered Ewald Mine in Herten, a half-hour drive from Bottrop. We climbed a set of stairs to a platform with a view over the whole region, the fenced-off or leased-out buildings of the old mine sitting below us.
The Ruhr Valley encompasses 53 cities of Germany’s once-formidable industrial heartland, including Essen, Bochum, and Oberhausen. The whole region was once low-lying riverland, but these days large hills rear above the landscape. These are the heaps of rock removed from the mines, tons of slag excavated with the coal and piled up. It’s a stark visual reminder of what’s been emptied out from underneath.
As the mines have closed down, most of these heaps have been covered with grass, and many have been crowned with a statue or other landmark. On one hill outside Essen, there’s a 50-foot steel slab by the sculptor Richard Serra; on another, atop other heaps, wind turbines stand like giant mechanical daisies.
Germany has been hailed as a leader in the global shift to clean energy, putting aside its industrial past for a renewable future faster than most of the industrialized world. The country has spent more than $200 billion on renewable energy subsidies since 2000 (compare that to the United States, which spends an estimated $20 billion to subsidize fossil fuel production every year).
In 2011, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government announced the beginning of a policy of “energiewende” to wean Germany off fossil fuels and nuclear power. Last year, wind, solar, and other renewables supplied nearly 30 percent of the country’s electricity. The goal now is to hit 40 percent in the next 10 years, while slashing carbon emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020.
That transition has happened alongside attempts to restore the Ruhr Valley’s landscape. For every hill raised above ground level, there is an accompanying depression where the land subsided as coal seams were emptied out. The land here sank as the coal seams closest to the surface were emptied out. Overall, the region has sunk about 80 feet.
Streams that enter the Ruhr Valley are no longer able to flow out the other side, Beicke explains, and now water pools in places it never used to. The mining company is responsible for pumping that water away, as well as pumping groundwater across the region, to keep the water table below the level of the existing mines. Any contaminated water in the old mines must be removed and treated to keep it from polluting the groundwater.
These are just a few of the mining company’s “ewigkeitsaufgaben”—literally, eternity tasks.
“As long as 5 or 6 million people want to live in this area, we will have to do that,” Beicke tells me, of the expensive water management. “Maybe 2,000 years in the future that will change, but until that happens, well.” He shrugs.
The government gives the mining consortium 220 million euros a year in subsidies to deal with all the consequences of coal mining. Unlike in the United States, where aging coal companies often sell off their assets or declare bankruptcy to dodge clean up bills, here the mining company will be pumping and treating water long after it has stopped being a mining company at all.
Despite a national commitment to a broad energy transition, many now think that Germany will fall short of its renewable energy targets, thanks to a number of confounding economic and social factors, including the continued use of a coal alternative called lignite, also known as “brown coal.” Germans have the highest electricity costs in Europe, and the rise of the country’s extreme right-wing party in the last election has been pinned, in part, on those high bills.
If Germany does continue to progress toward its climate goals, much of the new energy is sure to come from wind power. Germany has more wind turbines than any other country in Europe, many of them installed in the last six or seven years. But wind doesn’t blow consistently, so this shift has been a challenge for the electrical grid. Even slight disruptions in the power supply can have wide-ranging consequences.
As more wind turbines are turned on, and more coal plants are retired, this problem will only get bigger, and the challenge of storing all that intermittent energy will be even more important. Here’s where the country’s retired coal mines might prove useful again — as giant batteries for clean energy.
To turn a coal mine into a battery, all you need is gravity.
OK, you also need a lot of money (more about that later), but the basic principle is gravitational. When you lift a heavy object, it stores the power used to lift it as potential energy until it’s released and falls to the ground.
Let’s say the heavy object you’re lifting is water. When you want to store energy, you just have to pump the water uphill, into a reservoir. When you want to use that energy, you let the water flow back down through a series of turbines that turn the gravitational rush into electricity.
This is the basic plan André Niemann and Ulrich Schreiber conceived when they were dreaming up new ways to use old mines. It seemed intuitive to the two professors at the University of Essen-Duisburg: The bigger the distance between your upper and lower reservoirs, the more energy you can store, and what’s deeper than a coal mine?
Schreiber, a geologist, realized it was theoretically possible to fit a pumped storage reservoir into a mine, but it had never been done before. Niemann, a hydraulic engineer, thought the proposal was worth pursuing. He drummed up some research money, then spent a few years conducting feasibility studies, looking for a likely site in the Ruhr Valley and running the numbers on costs and benefits.
After studying the region’s web of fault lines and stratigraphic layers, Niemann’s team settled on the closing Prosper-Haniel mine. Their underground reservoir would be built like a massive highway tunnel, a reinforced concrete ring nine miles around and nearly 100 feet high, with a few feet difference in height from one side of the ring to the other to allow the water to flow, Niemann explains.
At max storage, the turbines could run for four hours, providing 800 megawatt-hours of reserve energy, enough to power 200,000 homes.
The appeal of pumped storage is obvious for Germany. Wind and sun are fickle energy sources—“intermittent” by industry lingo—and energy storage can help smooth out the dramatic spikes. When the wind gusts, you can stash that extra power in a battery. When a cloud moves over the sun, you can pull power back out. It’s simple and, as the grid handles more and more renewable energy, increasingly needed.
The only problem: It’s expensive.
As wind turbine and solar technologies have become cheaper, energy storage costs have stayed high. Pumped hydro, especially, requires a big investment up front. Niemann estimates it would cost between 10,000 and 25,000 euros per meter of tunnel just to build the reservoir, and around 500 million euros for the whole thing. Right now, neither the government nor the energy companies in the Ruhr Valley are willing to make that kind of investment.
“It’s not a business, it’s a bet, to be honest,” Niemann says with a shrug.
In spite of the increasing unlikelihood of the proposal becoming reality, delegations from the United States, China, Poland, France, South Africa, and Slovakia, among others, have visited Niemann and Schreiber in Essen to learn about mine pumped-storage. Virginia’s Dominion Energy has been studying the idea with the support of a Republican state senator, and a group from Virginia Tech paid a visit the week after I did.
Here’s where any attempt to draw comparisons across the Atlantic gets complicated. In the United States, the federal government has been relatively hands-off in helping coal-dependent regions move on from the industries that fueled their way of life. In Germany, by contrast, there’s a broad agreement about the need to shift to renewable sources of energy. And yet, even with all that social, political, and economic foresight, important and necessary innovations remain stalled for lack of investment.
The Ruhr Valley is not Appalachia. And yet the two regions share key similarities that offer some important lessons about the a path to a cleaner, more sustainable future.
Dying industries take more than jobs with them. Towns built around a single industry, like coal mining, develop a shared identity. For many workers and their families, it’s not as simple as picking up and finding a new line of work when the mine closes. Mining is seen as a calling, an inheritance, and people want their way of life back.
That’s how residents of the Ruhr responded when coal jobs started to decline.
“For a long time, people thought the old times would come back, the old days would return,” says Kai van de Loo, an energy and economics expert for a German coal association in Essen. “But they can never come back.”
In the United States, of course, calls to bring back the old days often works wonders as a political sales pitch. Donald Trump campaigned for president on promises to stop the “war on coal” and revive the dying industry, and mining towns across the Rust Belt supported him.
In Pennsylvania’s Mon River Valley, home to a once-thriving underground mining complex bigger than Manhattan, mining continues to exert an oversized influence. Some 8,000 people work in coal in the state, a portion of the 50,000 coal jobs left in the United States. That’s a far cry from the 180,000 people who worked in the industry 30 years ago. worked in or around coal mines only 30 years ago.
And the legacy of coal mining on the landscape is hard to miss. Bare slag heaps rise above the trees, dwarfing the towns beside them. Maryann Kubacki, supervisor of East Bethlehem in Washington County, says that during rainy spells the township has to shovel the gritty, black runoff from their storm sewers.
A Crucial Climate Mystery Hides Just Beneath Your Feet
Tesla Is Turning Kauai Into a Renewable Energy Paradise
Silicon Valley’s Mission to Save California Ag From Dying of Thirst
But without the federal government leading the way with financial support as it has in Germany, getting these former coal towns on a new track is a daunting task. Veronica Coptis, director of the Center for Coalfield Justice in Pennsylvania, says that organizing people to put pressure on mining companies is a delicate matter. People don’t want to hear that coal is bad, or that its legacy is poisoned. “We want an end to mining,” she says, “but we know it can’t happen abruptly.”
Back in Germany, the mayor of Bottrop, Bernd Tischler, has been thinking about how to kick coal since at least the early 2000s, long before the federal government put an end date on the country’s mining. An urban planner by training, Tischler has a knack for long-range strategy. After he took office in 2009, Tischler thought Bottrop could reinvent itself as a hub of renewable energy and energy efficiency. He devised heating plants that run off methane collected from the coal mine, and made Bottrop the first town in the Ruhr with a planned zone for wind energy.
In 2010, Bottrop won the title of “Innovation City,” a model for what the Ruhr Valley cities could become. Bottrop now gets 40 percent of its energy from renewables, Tischler said, 10 percentage points above the national average.
Describing this transformation, Tischler makes it almost sound easy. I explain that the issue of coal seems to track larger divisions in the United States, and so discussions inevitably turn heated, emotional.
“In Bottrop, the people of course feared for the process of the end of the coal mining,” he said. But Tischler believes mining towns have an advantage that can help them adapt to change: They’re more cohesive. In the mines, people are used to working together and looking out for each other. Distrust is dangerous, even deadly.
The Ruhr cities absorbed waves of Polish, Italian, and Turkish laborers over the years. And they’ve managed to get along well, knitting a strong social fabric, Tischler said. In the past few years, Bottrop, a town of 117,000 people, has resettled thousands of Syrian refugees in new housing.
A strong social fabric isn’t enough to survive the loss of a major industry, of course. Some promising industry—technology and renewables in Bottrop’s case—has to be found to replace it.
“I think the responsibility of the mayors and the politicians is to change the fear into a new vision, a new way,” he says. “You can’t do it against your people; you have to convince your people. You have to work together with institutions and stakeholders that don’t normally work together, [so that] we are sitting in the same boat and we are rowing in the same direction.”
In our new series to kick off 2017, WIRED predicts the biggest trends for the year ahead. In this segment, Matt Simon explains how businesses are still going to go green, even in the face of renewed climate change denialism.


This holiday season, more people than ever before are giving the gift of spit. Well, what’s in your spit, to be precise. Want to know where your ancestors once walked or whether you’re at risk for a genetic disease? There’s a spit tube kit for that. And customers are buying them in record numbers.
Between Black Friday and Cyber Monday, leading personal genomics company AncestryDNA sold about 1.5 million testing kits designed to provide insights into your ethnicity and familial connections. That’s like 2,000 gallons of saliva—enough to fill a modest above-ground swimming pool with the genetic history of every person in the city of Philadelphia.
Ancestry says it’s equipped to deal with the impending deluge, but the flood of consumer interest has its executives eyeing the long-term prospects of their stretched supply chain. It also has some policymakers and public health officials concerned about the pace with which people are blindly giving away their genetic data to these types of companies, who can turn around and sell it to third parties.
At a press conference on Sunday, Senator Chuck Schumer (D–New York) called for increased federal scrutiny of the privacy practices of consumer DNA testing companies like Ancestry and its chief rival, 23andMe. The Food and Drug Administration regulates consumer DNA tests related to health, like the 23andMe panel it approved earlier this year. So what exactly does the congressman want? For the Federal Trade Commission to force the firms to extract all their buried fine print about how they might distribute your data, and broadcast it loud and clear. “I think if most people knew that this information could be sold to third parties they would think twice,” Schumer said. “The last gift any of us want to give away this holiday season is our most personal and sensitive information.”
While there’s no evidence that these companies have let anyone’s genetic data fall into the hands of hackers—or anything half that bad—their policies do grant them free rein to host, transfer, process, analyze, distribute, and communicate your genetic information. You still technically own your DNA, but they own the rights to what’s in it—after it’s been anonymized and de-identified, of course. Both companies say the primary way they use this genetic data is to improve their products and services. But both have research partnerships that involve exchanging data for money—23andMe with drug companies like Pfizer and Genentech, Ancestry with Alphabet longevity spinout Calico.
“This isn’t a videogame, it’s people’s genetic code and it’s a very valuable commodity,” says Peter Pitts, the president of the Center for Medicine in the Public Interest and former FDA associate commissioner. He’d like to see more transparency from Ancestry and 23andMe about how often they resell DNA data and how much they make from it. That’s the only way for people to know what it’s really worth. “To treat it like a toy and put it under the Christmas tree is incredibly irresponsible.”
But that’s exactly what millions of people are going to do. While Ancestry officials didn’t provide exact sales figures for this year’s Black Friday weekend, they did say they sold three times as many kits as the same time period in 2016, an amount they’d previously reported as 560,000. Going into the long weekend, the company had sold slightly more than 6 million tests since launching the product in 2012. 23andMe declined to give any financial details, but thanks in part to a big price cut, its health test was one of Amazon’s five best-selling items on Black Friday, behind the Amazon Echo Dot, two other Alexa add-ons, and a programmable pressure cooker.
Amazon has become an increasingly important sales channel for both Ancestry and 23andMe in the two years since they began selling in the "home tests" section of the two-click shopping platform. But it was particularly huge for Ancestry when the aforementioned pressure cooker sold out late in the day on Monday. “From that moment you could just see it take off like a hockey stick,” says Ancestry executive vice president and general manager Ken Chahine, still surprised.
A Single $249 Test Analyzes 30 Cancer Genes. But Do You Need It?
How 23andMe Won Back the Right to Foretell Your Diseases
Illumina, the Google of Genetic Testing, Has Plans for World Domination
But not as surprised, he says, as Amazon. “They didn’t expect us to sell that much, so they moved a bunch of inventory out of the distribution centers to cold storage, probably in the middle of nowhere, and then they had to go track it all down, and for a while nobody knew where it was,” he says. It’s since been sorted out. But if you ordered a kit and it hasn’t come yet, at least now you know why.
Both Ancestry and 23andMe have acknowledged the criticism that has come with more widespread use of their products. But the companies maintain that their customers understand the trade-offs and have the opportunity to opt out at any time. When I interviewed Ancestry’s chief scientific officer Catherine Ball at the Commonwealth Club in July, the majority questions from the audience focused on issues of privacy and third-party access. “We do not own or assert any ownership over your genetics,” she told the crowd of about 100. “We just see ourselves as stewards and only do that which our customers have consented us to do.”
On Sunday night, in response to Schumer’s remarks, Kate Black, 23andMe’s privacy officer and corporate counsel, told NBC News something similar: “We do not sell individual customer information, nor do we include any customer data in our research program without an individual’s voluntary and informed consent. 23andMe customers are in control of their data—customers can choose to consent, or not to, at any time.”
Critics like Pitts say that’s “true but not accurate,” if you dig into the fine print. Which, he fears, people will spend even less time doing if they get the tests from a friend or relative. “That comes with an implicit endorsement, so people are likely to pay even less attention to the potential risks,” he says. A genetic test won’t shoot your eye out, but it should be handled with care.
The ability to edit DNA is already here, but the effects of doing so are hardly understood. Genetics experts explain the potential pitfalls and alluring upside of using the technology on athletes.


Over the course of thousands of years, dogs have evolved alongside humans to be awesome. Unlike their wild ancestors, they don't gnaw on us (usually). They stick up for us. They go to the bathroom in designated areas. They're unrivaled companions. Looking at you disappointingly, cats.
Now, though, they have competition. The companion robots that science fiction has promised us for so long have finally hit the United States, and leading the way is an adorable little machine called Kuri. Made by Mayfield Robotics in Silicon Valley, Kuri—which starts shipping in December—will roll around your house and respond to your voice and recognize faces and take video of your dinner parties, if you're into that sort of thing.
Not exactly as useful as Rosie from The Jetsons, but hey, it's early days. And the design evolution of Kuri, from prototype to consumer product, provides a fascinating glimpse into a new era of interaction between humans and increasingly sophisticated machines. The question is: Do humans need or even want this kind of thing? And are we prepared to form a new kind of bond with what is essentially a new kind of being?
Kuri sprang from the minds of roboticists Kaijen Hsiao and Sarah Osentoski, who didn’t actually start out to make a friendly robot. What they originally conceived of was a security robot that would patrol the home. Not to taser intruders, but to keep an eye out. The problem, the pair eventually realized, is that you're better off detecting someone while they’re still outside. “By the time someone gets in the home, well it's kind of too late, isn't it?” Hsiao says.
A robot with fewer responsibilities seemed a more logical starting point. So Hsiao and Osentoski began building a bot for companionship, instead of protection. But this approach introduced a slew of subtle problems, chief among them: How do you get this new technology to work in the home, while also winning the affection of its owners?
First of all, Kuri has to be able to navigate the house without acting like an idiot. To avoid obstacles, it maps the world with lasers, just like a self-driving car. This is the sort of thing that’s really making machines like Kuri possible—sensors are getting cheaper at the same time that they’re getting more powerful. You don't have to drop $10K on lidar to get your robot to see its world.
Where the design gets subtler is in the look of Kuri. In these early days of personal robotics, it’s important for manufacturers to nonverbally telegraph what their machines are capable of—for safety, in some cases, but mostly to avoid disappointing the user. Do not, for instance, expect Kuri to drag you out of a burning building.
“We try, through her form, to really communicate exactly what Kuri's capable of,” says Osentoski. “She doesn't have arms because she's not going to be moving things around your home.”
Another consideration is how Kuri communicates. We humans tend to anthropomorphize anything that seems even remotely lifelike. Accordingly, Kuri’s designers decided that it shouldn’t speak human. “This is because when you have something that's talking to you that's driving around your house you start to expect a lot more,” says Osentoski. “You start to expect the intelligence of a 3-year-old or a 5-year-old.” Kuri just isn't there yet, mentally or physically, so users need to treat it as such.
What Is a Robot?
This Robot Tractor Is Ready to Disrupt Construction
Inside SynTouch, the Mad Lab Giving Robots the Power to Feel
At the same time, Mayfield Robotics wants Kuri to win your affection and become part of your family, and a lot of that comes down to the eyes. Watch any Pixar movie and you’ll notice how expressive the eyes are. Humans love eyes. So humans have to love Kuri’s peepers, which are actually mechanical. That limits their emotive potential compared to, say, just slapping a flatscreen on Kuri’s face, but they go a long way in telegraphing emotion for a robot that otherwise communicates with beeps and boops.
So, put it all together and you get an advanced, weirdly cute robot that’s quite remarkable to communicate with. It’s limited at the moment, sure, but as someone who’s interacted with Kuri, I can tell you that it conjures peculiar feelings. Rub its head and it looks up at you lovingly. I'm impressed by its apparent animalness, yet other times frustrated when it doesn't respond to my commands. I'm fully aware that it’s a machine meant to play with my emotions and expectations, but I don’t really care. In the end, I'm just not fully sure how to interact with it.
Whether humans are even ready for companion robots, though, remains to be seen. Think machines that strike up conversations with the elderly and even cuddle with them. “I don't believe in companion robots, I'm sorry,” says UC Berkeley roboticist Ken Goldberg. “I don't think that that's actually what people want. If I'm lonely, the last thing I want is a robot to come in and somehow be my friend. That's even more depressing.”
Whether Americans fall in love with it or not, Kuri is a technical milestone. And it will only get smarter from here. This is just the beginning of a new kind of relationship that humanity is beginning to form with robots, so prepare for a lot of awkward moments—and powerful ones, too. And bonus: Kuri will never chew up your slippers or assault your postal carrier.
Sophisticated companion robots have arrived. But we need to be very careful about how we interact with them.


This story originally appeared on Grist and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
In a remote region of Antarctica known as Pine Island Bay, 2,500 miles from the tip of South America, two glaciers hold human civilization hostage.
Stretching across a frozen plain more than 150 miles long, these glaciers, named Pine Island and Thwaites, have marched steadily for millennia toward the Amundsen Sea, part of the vast Southern Ocean. Further inland, the glaciers widen into a two-mile-thick reserve of ice covering an area the size of Texas.
There’s no doubt this ice will melt as the world warms. The vital question is when.
The glaciers of Pine Island Bay are two of the largest and fastest-melting in Antarctica. (A Rolling Stone feature earlier this year dubbed Thwaites “The Doomsday Glacier.”) Together, they act as a plug holding back enough ice to pour 11 feet of sea-level rise into the world’s oceans—an amount that would submerge every coastal city on the planet. For that reason, finding out how fast these glaciers will collapse is one of the most important scientific questions in the world today.
To figure that out, scientists have been looking back to the end of the last ice age, about 11,000 years ago, when global temperatures stood at roughly their current levels. The bad news? There’s growing evidence that the Pine Island Bay glaciers collapsed rapidly back then, flooding the world’s coastlines—partially the result of something called “marine ice-cliff instability.”
The ocean floor gets deeper toward the center of this part of Antarctica, so each new iceberg that breaks away exposes taller and taller cliffs. Ice gets so heavy that these taller cliffs can’t support their own weight. Once they start to crumble, the destruction would be unstoppable.
“Ice is only so strong, so it will collapse if these cliffs reach a certain height,” explains Kristin Poinar, a glaciologist at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center. “We need to know how fast it’s going to happen.”
In the past few years, scientists have identified marine ice-cliff instability as a feedback loop that could kickstart the disintegration of the entire West Antarctic ice sheet this century—much more quickly than previously thought.
Minute-by-minute, huge skyscraper-sized shards of ice cliffs would crumble into the sea, as tall as the Statue of Liberty and as deep underwater as the height of the Empire State Building. The result: a global catastrophe the likes of which we’ve never seen.
Ice comes in many forms, with different consequences when it melts. Floating ice, like the kind that covers the Arctic Ocean in wintertime and comprises ice shelves, doesn’t raise sea levels. (Think of a melting ice cube, which won’t cause a drink to spill over.)
Land-based ice, on the other hand, is much more troublesome. When it falls into the ocean, it adds to the overall volume of liquid in the seas. Thus, sea-level rise.
Antarctica is a giant landmass—about half the size of Africa—and the ice that covers it averages more than a mile thick. Before human burning of fossil fuels triggered global warming, the continent’s ice was in relative balance: The snows in the interior of the continent roughly matched the icebergs that broke away from glaciers at its edges.
Now, as carbon dioxide traps more heat in the atmosphere and warms the planet, the scales have tipped.
A wholesale collapse of Pine Island and Thwaites would set off a catastrophe. Giant icebergs would stream away from Antarctica like a parade of frozen soldiers. All over the world, high tides would creep higher, slowly burying every shoreline on the planet, flooding coastal cities and creating hundreds of millions of climate refugees.
All this could play out in a mere 20 to 50 years—much too quickly for humanity to adapt.
“With marine ice cliff instability, sea-level rise for the next century is potentially much larger than we thought it might be five or 10 years ago,” Poinar says.
A lot of this newfound concern is driven by the research of two climatologists: Rob DeConto at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst and David Pollard at Penn State University. A study they published last year was the first to incorporate the latest understanding of marine ice-cliff instability into a continent-scale model of Antarctica.
Their results drove estimates for how high the seas could rise this century sharply higher. “Antarctic model raises prospect of unstoppable ice collapse,” read the headline in the scientific journal Nature, a publication not known for hyperbole.
Instead of a three-foot increase in ocean levels by the end of the century, six feet was more likely, according to DeConto and Pollard’s findings. But if carbon emissions continue to track on something resembling a worst-case scenario, the full 11 feet of ice locked in West Antarctica might be freed up, their study showed.
Three feet of sea-level rise would be bad, leading to more frequent flooding of US cities such as New Orleans, Houston, New York, and Miami. Pacific Island nations, like the Marshall Islands, would lose most of their territory. Unfortunately, it now seems like three feet is possible only under the rosiest of scenarios.
At six feet, though, around 12 million people in the United States would be displaced, and the world’s most vulnerable megacities, like Shanghai, Mumbai, and Ho Chi Minh City, could be wiped off the map.
At 11 feet, land currently inhabited by hundreds of millions of people worldwide would wind up underwater. South Florida would be largely uninhabitable; floods on the scale of Hurricane Sandy would strike twice a month in New York and New Jersey, as the tug of the moon alone would be enough to send tidewaters into homes and buildings.
DeConto and Pollard’s breakthrough came from trying to match observations of ancient sea levels at shorelines around the world with current ice sheet behavior.
Around 3 million years ago, when global temperatures were about as warm as they’re expected to be later this century, oceans were dozens of feet higher than today.
Previous models suggested that it would take hundreds or thousands of years for sea-level rise of that magnitude to occur. But once they accounted for marine ice-cliff instability, DeConto and Pollard’s model pointed toward a catastrophe if the world maintains a “business as usual” path—meaning we don’t dramatically reduce carbon emissions.
Rapid cuts in greenhouse gases, however, showed Antarctica remaining almost completely intact for hundreds of years.
Pollard and DeConto are the first to admit that their model is still crude, but its results have pushed the entire scientific community into emergency mode.
“It could happen faster or slower, I don’t think we really know yet,” says Jeremy Bassis, a leading ice sheet scientist at the University of Michigan. “But it’s within the realm of possibility, and that’s kind of a scary thing.”
Scientists used to think that ice sheets could take millennia to respond to changing climates. These are, after all, mile-thick chunks of ice.
The new evidence, though, says that once a certain temperature threshold is reached, ice shelves of glaciers that extend into the sea, like those near Pine Island Bay, will begin to melt from both above and below, weakening their structure and hastening their demise, and paving the way for ice-cliff instability to kick in.
In a new study out last month in the journal Nature, a team of scientists from Cambridge and Sweden point to evidence from thousands of scratches left by ancient icebergs on the ocean floor, indicating that Pine Island’s glaciers shattered in a relatively short amount of time at the end of the last ice age.
The only place in the world where you can see ice-cliff instability in action today is at Jakobshavn glacier in Greenland, one of the fastest-collapsing glaciers in the world. DeConto says that to construct their model, they took the collapse rate of Jakobshavn, cut it in half to be extra conservative, then applied it to Thwaites and Pine Island.
But there’s reason to think Thwaites and Pine Island could go even faster than Jakobshavn.
For Scientists Predicting Sea Level Rise, Wind Is the Biggest Unknown
The Arctic Is Melting, and Fast. But Maybe Data Can Save It
Giant Antarctic Icebergs and Crushing Existential Dread
Right now, there’s a floating ice shelf protecting the two glaciers, helping to hold back the flow of ice into the sea. But recent examples from other regions, like the rapidly collapsing Larsen B ice shelf on the Antarctic Peninsula, show that once ice shelves break apart as a result of warming, their parent glaciers start to flow faster toward the sea, an effect that can weaken the stability of ice further inland, too.
“If you remove the ice shelf, there’s a potential that not just ice-cliff instabilities will start occurring, but a process called marine ice-sheet instabilities,” says Matthew Wise, a polar scientist at the University of Cambridge.
This signals the possible rapid destabilization of the entire West Antarctic ice sheet in this century. “Once the stresses exceed the strength of the ice,” Wise says, “it just falls off.”
And, it’s not just Pine Island Bay. On our current course, other glaciers around Antarctica will be similarly vulnerable. And then there’s Greenland, which could contribute as much as 20 feet of sea-level rise if it melts.
Next to a meteor strike, rapid sea-level rise from collapsing ice cliffs is one of the quickest ways our world can remake itself. This is about as fast as climate change gets.
Still, some scientists aren’t fully convinced the alarm is warranted. Ted Scambos, lead scientist at the National Snow and Ice Data Center in Colorado, says the new research by Wise and his colleagues, which identified ice-cliff instabilities in Pine Island Bay 11,000 years ago, is “tantalizing evidence.” But he says that research doesn’t establish how quickly it happened.
“There’s a whole lot more to understand if we’re going to use this mechanism to predict how far Thwaites glacier and the other glaciers are going to retreat,” he says. “The question boils down to, what are the brakes on this process?”
Scambos thinks it is unlikely that Thwaites or Pine Island would collapse all at once. For one thing, if rapid collapse did happen, it would produce a pile of icebergs that could act like a temporary ice shelf, slowing down the rate of retreat.
Despite the differences of opinion, however, there’s growing agreement within the scientific community that we need to do much more to determine the risk of rapid sea-level rise. In 2015, the US and UK governments began to plan a rare and urgent joint research program to study Thwaites glacier. Called “How much, how fast?,” the effort is set to begin early next year and run for five years.
Seeing the two governments pooling their resources is “really a sign of the importance of research like this,” NASA’s Poinar says.
Given what’s at stake, the research program at Thwaites isn’t enough, but it might be the most researchers can get. “Realistically, it’s probably all that can be done in the next five years in the current funding environment,” says Pollard.
He’s referring, of course, to the Trump administration’s disregard for science and adequate scientific funding; the White House’s 2018 budget proposal includes the first-ever cut to the National Science Foundation, which typically funds research in Antarctica.
“It would be sensible to put a huge effort into this, from my perspective,” Pollard says. Structural engineers need to study Antarctica’s key glaciers as though they were analyzing a building, he says, probing for weak spots and understanding how exactly they might fail. “If you vastly increase the research now, [the cost] would still be trivial compared to the losses that might happen.”
Bassis, the ice sheet scientist at the University of Michigan, first described the theoretical process of marine ice-cliff instability in research published only a few years ago.
He’s 40 years old, but his field has already changed enormously over the course of his career. In 2002, when Bassis was conducting his PhD research in a different region of Antarctica, he was shocked to return to his base camp and learn that the Larsen B ice shelf had vanished practically overnight.
“Every revision to our understanding has said that ice sheets can change faster than we thought,” he says. “We didn’t predict that Pine Island was going to retreat, we didn’t predict that Larsen B was going to disintegrate. We tend to look at these things after they’ve happened.”
There’s a recurring theme throughout these scientists’ findings in Antarctica: What we do now will determine how quickly Pine Island and Thwaites collapse. A fast transition away from fossil fuels in the next few decades could be enough to put off rapid sea-level rise for centuries. That’s a decision worth countless trillions of dollars and millions of lives.
“The range of outcomes,” Bassis says, “is really going to depend on choices that people make.”
Seawall-topping king tides occur when extra-high tides line up with other meteorological anomalies. In the past they were a novelty or a nuisance. Now they hint at the new normal, when sea level rise will render current coastlines obsolete.


Hunter Williams used to be an English teacher. Then, three years into that job, he started reading the book The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress. The 1966 novel by Robert Heinlein takes place in the 2070s, on the moon, which, in this future, hosts a subterranean penal colony. Like all good sci-fi, the plot hinges on a rebellion and a computer that gains self-awareness. But more important to Williams were two basic fictional facts: First, people lived on the moon. Second, they mined the moon. “I thought, ‘This is it. This is what we really could be doing,” he says.
Today, that vision is closer than ever. And Williams is taking steps to make it reality. This year, he enrolled in a class called Space Resources Fundamentals, the pilot course for the first-ever academic program specializing in space mining. It's a good time for such an education, given that companies like Deep Space Industries and Planetary Resources are planning prospecting missions, NASA's OSIRIS-REx is on its way to get a sample of an asteroid and bring it back to Earth, and there's international and commercial talk of long-term living in space.
Williams had grown up with the space-farers on Star Trek, but he found Heinlein’s vision more credible: a colony that dug into and used the resources of their celestial body. That's the central tenet of the as-yet-unrealized space mining industry: You can't take everything with you, and, even if you can, it's a whole lot cheaper not to—to mine water to make fuel, for instance, rather than launching it on overburdened rockets. “I saw a future that wasn't a hundred or a thousand years away but could be happening now,” says Williams.
So in 2012, he adjusted trajectory and went to school for aerospace engineering. Then he worked at Cape Canaveral in Florida, doing ground support for Lockheed Martin. His building, on that cosmic coast, was right next to one of SpaceX's spots. “Every day when I came to work, I would see testaments to new technology,” he says. “It was inspiring.”
A few years later, he still hadn't let go of the idea that humans could work with what they found in space. Like in his book. So he started talking to Christopher Dreyer, a professor at the Colorado School of Mines’ Center for Space Resources, a research and technology development center that's existed within the school for more than a decade.
It was good timing. Because this summer, Mines announced its intention to found the world’s first graduate program in Space Resources—the science, technology, policy, and politics of prospecting, mining, and using those resources. The multidisciplinary program would offer Post-Baccalaureate certificates and Masters of Science degrees. Although it's still pending approval for a 2018 start date, the school is running its pilot course, taught by Dreyer, this semester.
Williams has committed fully: He left his Canaveral job this summer and moved to Colorado to do research for Dreyer, and hopefully start the grad program in 2018.
Williams wasn't the only one interested in the future of space mining. People from all over, non-traditional students, wanted to take Space Resources Fundamentals. And so Dreyer and Center for Space Resources director Angel Abbud-Madrid decided to run it remotely, ending up with about 15 enrollees who log in every Tuesday and Thursday night for the whole semester. Dreyer has a special setup in his office for his virtual lectures: a laptop stand, a wall of books behind him, a studio-type light that shines evenly.
In the minutes before Thanskgiving-week class started, students' heads popped up on Dreyer's screen as they logged in. Some are full-time students at Mines; some work in industry; some work for the government. There was the employee from the FAA’s Office of Commercial Space Transportation, an office tasked, in part, with making sure the US is obeying international treaties as they explore beyond the planet. Then there’s Justin Cyrus, the CEO of a startup called Lunar Outpost. Cyrus isn’t mining any moons yet, but Lunar Outpost has partnered with Denver’s Department of Environmental Health to deploy real-time air-quality sensors, of the kind it hopes to develop for moony use.
Cyrus was a Mines graduate, with a master’s in electrical and electronics engineering; he sought out Dreyer and Abbud-Madrid when he needed advice for his nascent company. When the professors announced the space resources program, Cyrus decided to get in on this pilot class. He, and the other attendees, seem to see the class not just as an educational opportunity but also as a networking one: Their classmates, they say, are the future leaders of this industry.
Asteroid Mining Sounds Hard, Right? You Don’t Know the Half of It
Luxembourg's Bid to Become the Silicon Valley of Space Mining
Space Mining Could Set Off a Star War
Cyrus, the FAA employee, and Williams all smiled from their screens in front of benign backgrounds. About a dozen other students—all men—joined in by the time class started. The day's lesson, about resources on the moon, came courtesy of scientist Paul Spudis, who live-broadcasted from a few states away. Spudis, a guest lecturer, showed charts and maps and data about resources the moon might harbor, and where, and their worth. He's bullish on the prospects of prospecting. Toward the end of his talk, he said, "I think we'll have commercial landings on the moon in the next year or so." Indeed, the company Moon Express is planning to land there in 2018, in a bid to win the Google Lunar X Prize.
Back during Halloween week, the class covered the Outer Space Treaty, a creation of the United Nations that governs outer-space actions and (in some people's interpretations) makes the legality of space mining dubious. The lecture was full of policy detail, but the students drove the ensuing Q&A toward the sociological. Space mining would disproportionately help already-wealthy countries, some thought, despite talk in the broader community about how space mining lowers the barrier to space entry.
In this realism, and this thoughtfulness, Dreyer's class is refreshing. The PR talk of big would-be space mining companies like Planetary Resources and Deep Space Industries can be slick, uncomplicated, and (sometimes) unrealistic. It often skips over the many steps between here and self-sustaining space societies—not to mention the companies' own long-term viability.
But in Space Resource Fundamentals, the students seem grounded. Student Nicholas Proctor, one of few with a non-engineering background, appreciates the  pragmatism. Proctor studied accounting as an undergrad and enrolled at Mines in mineral economics. After he received a NASA grant to study space-based solar power and its applications to the mining industry, Abbud-Madrid sent him an email telling him about the class. The professor thought it would be a good fit—and Proctor obviously agreed.
After Thanksgiving-week class was over, students logged off, waving one-handed goodbyes. Williams had been watching from the lab downstairs, in a high-tech warehouse-garage combo. There, he and other students work among experiments about how dust moves in space, and what asteroids are actually like. Of course, they're also interested in how to get stuff—resources—out of them. An old metal chamber dominates the room, looking like an unpeopled iron lung. "The big Apollo-era chamber is currently for asteroid mining," Williams explained, "breaking apart rocks with sunlight and extracting the water and even precious metals."
While Williams closed up class shop downstairs, Dreyer and Abbud-Madrid hung out in Dreyer's office for a few minutes. Dreyer, leaning back in his well-lit chair, talked bemusedly about some of the communications they receive. “We get interest from people to find out what they can mine and bring back to Earth and become a trillionaire,” he said.
That’s not really what the Space Resources program is about, in part because it’s not clear that’s possible—it’s expensive to bring the precious (to bring anything) back to Earth. The class focus—and, not coincidentally, the near-term harvest—is the H2O, which will stay in space, for space-use. “No matter how complex our society becomes, it always comes back to water,” said Abbud-Madrid. He laughed. “We’re going to the moon,” he continued. “For water.”
NASA announced the next step in the plan to retrieve an asteroid boulder from a near-Earth asteroid and redirect it into a stable orbit around the moon to carry out human exploration missions, all in support of advancing the nation's journey to Mars.


The modern human obsession with beachfront property is nothing new. For tens of thousands of years, our kind has been bonded to the coast and its bounty of food. Inland is alright, too, but nothing matches the productivity of the sea.
The problem with coastal living is that while the food supply is relatively stable, sea levels are not. They've always risen and fallen as the climate changes over the millennia—and thanks to the hyper-productivity of the Industrial Age, they're in the middle of a pretty significant uptick. In the coming decades, rising sea levels could jeopardize untold billions of dollars in real estate and infrastructure along the world’s coasts and displace millions of people.
While climate change imperils humanity’s future, it also imperils its past. A new study out in PLOS One quantifies that in alarming detail: Just in the southeastern United States, a sea level rise of one meter would inundate thousands of archaeological sites, from Native American settlements to early European colonies.
The researchers began their archaeological accounting with what is, quite frankly, a mess of data. States are federally mandated to keep records of archaeological sites, but they don’t all go about it in the same way. They might collect different kinds of information, ranging from the sorts of artifacts found to the era of settlement.
So the researchers worked with an ongoing project called the Digital Index of North American Archaeology, an umbrella database that compiles this mess of data into something more manageable. Then it was a matter of marrying location data for sites in nine southeastern states, including Florida, Georgia, and the Carolinas, with elevation data—plotting which sites will be in trouble. (None of this location data, by the way, is particularly exact. Security purposes.)
The results aren’t encouraging. With a sea level rise of one meter—which could happen before the end of this century—the states would lose over 13,000 total sites, 4,000 in Florida alone. With a rise of 5 meters, the sites lost in the region would top 32,000.
It’s all a bit demoralizing, I know. But this research is an attempt to bring some order to what is quickly becoming chaos. “What we are hoping to get started is a conversation in American archaeology, and world archaeology," says co-author Josh Wells of Indiana University South Bend. "What are the effects of climate change on the record as we understand it, and to what extent do we need to triage and focus our efforts on recovering what we can before it's gone?”
They'll need to work quickly, because the scourge has already begun. “This is ongoing now with sea levels slowly coming up, increased storm surges,” says study co-author David Anderson of the University of Tennessee. “We're seeing erosion of coastal archaeological sites.”
It’s the sheer scale here that’s so daunting. How do you save 13,000 individual sites? Well, you don’t. Archaeologists have to face the reality that if sea levels rise, they’re going to have to pick a select few sites to concentrate on, cataloging them as best they can—perhaps with slick new digital techniques—and doing whatever possible to ensure their survival.
You might build a sea wall around a particularly important site, for instance, but that could endanger other sites. “When you build these barriers you're typically taking soil,” says Anderson. “You're taking materials from locations that themselves contain archaeological and historical resources.”
Could San Francisco Get the Oil Industry to Pay for Climate Change?
What We’ve Learned About Climate Change Since Hurricane Sandy
Four Radical Plans to Save Civilization From Climate Change
Theoretically, you could move structures as well. The Egyptians did this with the Abu Simbel temples when a new dam threatened to submerge them in the 1960s. But what do you choose to save? Who chooses what to save? (Irony among ironies: Washington, DC and its many cultural sites may eventually be at risk, the study notes. The Lincoln Memorial sits at 10 meters above sea level, which seems like a lot until you factor in the threat of floods. So the government may need to move monuments one day, long after the man who shunned the Paris Agreement has left office.)
There’s also the human cost. Archaeological sites will be submerged, but so too will modern communities. This is also already happening. In 2016, the federal government announced it would move a band of the Biloxi-Chitimacha-Choctaw Native American tribe from coastal Louisiana, where rising waters were threatening to sweep the community away. Climate change forced them not just from their homes, but historically and culturally significant locations.
Relocations, though, can further complicate matters. As sea levels rise, more and more people will have to move inland. And development there could imperil the archaeological sites that would otherwise survive sea level rise.
Yeah, it's scary stuff. But this research is a big step toward making sea level rise not only more comprehensible, but manageable. After all, we've got a future to safeguard and a past to preserve.
Coral reefs are under threat, but measuring the loss has been difficult. To get a better and faster picture of coral health, researchers developed a new incredibly accurate 3D mapping system.
Music - "I Still Really Love You" By Abjo (http://abjo.bandcamp.com/)


It's almost always the last topic in the first semester of introductory physics—angular momentum. Best for last, or something? I've used this concept to describe everything from fidget spinners to standing double back flips to the movement of strange interstellar asteroids.
But really, what the heck is angular momentum?
Let me start with the following situation. Imagine that there are two balls in space connected by a spring. Why are there two balls in space? I don't know—just use your imagination.
Not only are these balls connected by a spring, but the red ball has a mass that is three times the mass of the yellow ball—just for fun.  Now the two balls are pushed such that they move around each other—just like this.
Yes, this is a numerical calculation. If you want to take a look at the code and play with it yourself (and you should), here it is. If you want all the details about how to make something like this, take a look at this post on the three body problem.
When we see stuff like these rotating spring-balls, we think about what is conserved—what doesn't change. Momentum is a good example of a conserved quantity. We can define momentum as:
Let me just make a plot of the total momentum as a function of time for this spring-ball system. Since momentum is a vector, I will have to plot one component of the momentum—just for fun, I will choose the x-coordinate. Here's what I get.
In that plot, the red curve is the x-momentum of the red (heavier) ball and the blue curve is for the yellow ball (yellow doesn't show up in the graph very well). The black line is the total momentum. Notice that as one object increases in momentum, the other object decreases. Momentum is conserved. You could do the same thing in the y-direction or the z-direction, but I think you get the idea.
What about energy?  I can calculate two types of energy for this system consisting of the balls and the spring. There is kinetic energy and there is a spring potential energy:
The kinetic energy depends on the mass (m) and velocity (v) of the objects where the potential energy is related to the stiffness of the spring (k) and the stretch (s). Now I can plot the total energy of this system. Note that energy is a scalar quantity, so I don't have to plot just one component of it.
The black curve is again the total energy. Notice that it is constant. Energy is also conserved.
But is there another conserved quantity that could be calculated? Is the angular velocity conserved? Clearly it is not. As the balls come closer together, they seem to spin faster. How about a quick check, using a plot of the angular velocity as a function of time.
Nope: Clearly, this is not conserved. I could plot the angular velocity of each ball—but they would just have the same value and not add up to a constant.
OK, but there is something else that can be calculated that will perhaps be conserved. You guessed it: It's called the angular momentum. The angular momentum of a single particle depends on both the momentum of that particle and its vector location from some point. The angular momentum can be calculated as:
Although this seems like a simple expression, there is much to go over.  First, the L vector represents the angular momentum—yes, it's a vector. Second, the r vector is a distance vector from some point to the object and finally the p vector represents the momentum (product of mass and velocity). But what about that "X"? That is the cross product operator. The cross product is an operation between two vectors that produces a vector result (because you can't use scalar multiplication between two vectors).
I don't want to go into a bunch of maths regarding the cross product, so instead I will just show it to you.  Here is a quick python program showing two vectors (A and B) as well as  A x B (you would say that as A cross B).
You can click and drag the yellow A vector around and see what happens to the resultant of A x B.  Also, don't forget that you can always look at the code by clicking the "pencil" icon and then click the "play" to run it. Notice that A X B is always perpendicular to both A and B—thus this is always a three-dimensional problem. Oh, you can also rotate the vectors by using the right-click or ctrl-click and drag.
But now I can calculate (and plot) the total angular momentum of this ball-spring system. Actually, I can't plot the angular momentum since that's a vector. Instead I will plot the z-component of the angular momentum. Also, I need to pick a point about which to calculate the angular momentum. I will use the center of mass for the ball-spring system.
There are some important things to notice in this plot. First, both the balls have constant z-component of angular momentum so of course the total angular momentum is also constant. Second, the z-component of angular momentum is negative. This means the angular momentum vector is pointing in a direction that would appear to be into the screen (from your view).
So it appears that this quantity called angular momentum is indeed conserved. If you want, you can check that the angular momentum is also conserved in the x and y-directions (but it is).
But wait! you say. Maybe angular momentum is only conserved because I am calculating it with respect to the center of mass for the ball-spring system. OK, fine. Let's move this point to somewhere else such that the momentum vectors will be the same, but now the r-vectors for the two balls will be something different. Here's what I get for the z-component of angular momentum.
Now you can see that the z-component for the two balls both individually change, but the total angular momentum is constant.  So angular momentum is still conserved.  In the end, angular momentum is something that is conserved for situations that have no external torque like these spring balls. But why do we even need angular momentum? In this case, we really don't need it. It is quite simple to model the motion of the objects just using the momentum principle and forces (which is how I made the python model you see).
But what about something else? Take a look at this quick experiment. There is a rotating platform with another disk attached to a motor.
What happens with the motor-disk starts to spin? Watch. (There's a YouTube version here.)
Again, angular momentum is conserved. As the motor disk starts to spin one way, the rest of the platform spins the other way such that the total angular momentum is constant (and zero in this case). For a situation like this, it would be pretty darn difficult to model this situation with just forces and momentum. Oh, you could indeed do it—but you would have to consider both the platform and the disk as many, many small masses each with different momentum vectors and position vectors. It would be pretty much impossible to explain with that method. However, by using angular momentum for these rigid objects, it's not such a bad physics problem.
In the end, angular momentum is yet another thing that we can calculate—and it turns out to be useful in quite a number of situations. If you can find some other quantity that is conserved in different situations, you will probably be famous. You can also name the quantity after yourself if that makes you happy.
Charlotte Drury, Maggie Nichols, and Aly Raisman talk to WIRED about the skill, precision, and control they employ when performing various Gymnastic moves and when training for the Olympics.


In 1891, a New York doctor named William B. Coley injected a mixture of beef broth and Streptococcus bacteria into the arm of a 40-year-old Italian man with an inoperable neck tumor. The patient got terribly sick—developing a fever, chills, and vomiting. But a month later, his cancer had shrunk drastically. Coley would go on to repeat the procedure in more than a thousand patients, with wildly varying degrees of success, before the US Food and Drug Administration shut him down.
Coley’s experiments were the first forays into a field of cancer research known today as immunotherapy. Since his first experiments, the oncology world has mostly moved on to radiation and chemo treatments. But for more than a century, immunotherapy—which encompasses a range of treatments designed to supercharge or reprogram a patient’s immune system to kill cancer cells—has persisted, mostly around the margins of medicine. In the last few years, though, an explosion of tantalizing clinical results have reinvigorated the field and plunged investors and pharma execs into a spending spree.
Though he didn’t have the molecular tools to understand why it worked, Coley’s forced infections put the body’s immune system into overdrive, allowing it to take out cancer cells along the way. While the FDA doesn’t have a formal definition for more modern immunotherapies, in the last few years it has approved at least eight drugs that fit the bill, unleashing a flood of money to finance new clinical trials. (Patients had better come with floods of money too—prices can now routinely top six figures.)
But while the drugs are dramatically improving the odds of survival for some patients, much of the basic science is still poorly understood. And a growing number of researchers worry that the sprint to the clinic offers cancer patients more hype than hope.
When immunotherapy works, it really works. But not for every kind of cancer, and not for every patient—not even, it turns out, for the majority of them. “The reality is immunotherapy is incredibly valuable for the people who can actually benefit from it, but there are far more people out there who don’t benefit at all,” says Vinay Prasad, an Oregon Health and Science University oncologist.
Prasad has come to be regarded as a professional cancer care critic, thanks to his bellicose Twitter style and John Arnold Foundation-backed crusade against medical practices he says are based on belief, not scientific evidence. Using national cancer statistics and FDA approval records, Prasad recently estimated the portion of all patients dying from all types of cancer in America this year who might actually benefit from immunotherapy. The results were disappointing: not even 10 percent.
Now, that’s probably a bit of an understatement. Prasad was only looking at the most widely used class of immunotherapy drugs in a field that is rapidly expanding. Called checkpoint inhibitors, they work by disrupting the immune system’s natural mechanism for reining in T cells, blood-borne sentinels that bind and kill diseased cells throughout the body. The immune cells are turned off most of the time, thanks to proteins that latch on to a handful of receptors on their surface. But scientists designed antibodies to bind to those same receptors, knocking out the regulatory protein and keeping the cells permanently switched to attack mode.
The first checkpoint inhibitors just turned T cells on. But some of the newer ones can work more selectively, using the same principle to jam a signal that tumors use to evade T cells. So far, checkpoint inhibitors have shown near-miraculous results for a few rare, previously incurable cancers like Hodgkin’s lymphoma, renal cell carcinoma, and non-small cell lung cancer. The drugs are only approved to treat those conditions, leaving about two-thirds of terminal cancer patients without an approved immunotherapy option.
But Prasad says that isn’t stopping physicians from prescribing the drugs anyway.
“Hype has encouraged rampant off-label use of checkpoint inhibitors as a last-ditch effort,” he says—even for patients with tumors that show no evidence they’ll respond to the drugs. The antibodies are available off the shelf, but at a list price near $150,000 per year, it’s an investment Prasad says doctors shouldn’t encourage lightly. Especially when there’s no reliable way of predicting who will respond and who won’t. “This thwarts one of the goals of cancer care," says Prasad. "When you run out of helpful responses, how do you help a patient navigate what it means to die well?”
Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb have dominated this first wave of immunotherapy, selling almost $9 billion worth of checkpoint inhibitors since they went on sale in 2015. Roche, AstraZeneca, Novartis, Eli Lilly, Abbvie, and Regeneron have all since jumped in the game, spending billions on acquiring biotech startups and beefing up in-house pipelines. And 800 clinical trials involving a checkpoint inhibitor are currently underway in the US, compared with about 200 in 2015. “This is not sustainable,” Genentech VP of cancer immunology Ira Mellman told the audience at last year’s annual meeting of the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer. With so many trials, he said, the industry was throwing every checkpoint inhibitor combination at the wall just to see what would stick.
After more than a decade stretching out the promise of checkpoint inhibitors, patients—and businesses—were ready for something new. And this year, they got it: CAR T cell therapy. The immunotherapy involves extracting a patient’s T cells and genetically rewiring them so they can more efficiently home in on tumors in the body—training a foot soldier as an assassin that can slip behind enemy lines.
In September, the FDA cleared the first CAR-T therapy—a treatment for children with advanced leukemia, developed by Novartis—which made history as the first-ever gene therapy approved for market. A month later the agency approved another live cell treatment, developed by Kite Pharma, for a form of adult lymphoma. In trials for the lymphoma drug, 50 percent of patients saw their cancer disappear completely, and stay gone.
Scientists Save a Kid By Growing a Whole New Skin For Him
Gene Therapy Emerges From Disgrace to Be the Next Big Thing, Again
How Crispr Could Snip Away Some of Humanity's Worst Diseases
Kite’s ascendance in particular is a stunning indicator of how much money CAR-T therapy has attracted, and how fast. The company staged a $128 million IPO in 2014—when it had only a single late-phase clinical trial to its name—and sold to Gilead Science in August for $11.9 billion. For some context, consider that when Pfizer bought cancer drugmaker Medivation for $14 billion last year—one of the biggest pharma deals of 2016—the company already had an FDA-approved blockbuster tumor-fighter on the market with $2 billion in annual sales, plus two late-stage candidates in the pipeline.
While Kite and Novartis were the only companies to actually launch products in 2017, more than 40 other pharma firms and startups are currently building pipelines. Chief rival Juno Therapeutics went public with a massive $265 million initial offering—the largest biotech IPO of 2014—before forming a $1 billion partnership with Celgene in 2015. In the last few years, at least half a dozen other companies have made similar up-front deals worth hundreds of millions.
These treatments will make up just a tiny slice of the $107 billion cancer drug market. Only about 600 people a year, for example, could benefit from Novartis’ flagship CAR-T therapy. But the company set the price for a full course of treatment at a whopping $475,000. So despite the small clientele, the potential payoff is huge—and the technology is attracting a lot of investor interest. “CAR-T venture financing is still a small piece of total venture funding in oncology, but given that these therapies are curative for a majority of patients that have received them in clinical trials, the investment would appear to be justified,” says Mandy Jackson, a managing editor for research firm Informa Pharma Intelligence.
CAR-T, with its combination of gene and cell therapies, may be the most radical anticancer treatment ever to arrive in clinics. But the bleeding edge of biology can be a dangerous place for patients.
Sometimes, the modified T cells go overboard, excreting huge quantities of molecules called cytokines that lead to severe fevers, low blood pressure, and difficulty breathing. In some patients it gets even worse. Sometimes the blood-brain barrier inexplicably breaks down—and the T cells and their cytokines get inside patients’ skulls. Last year, Juno pulled the plug on its lead clinical trial after five leukemia patients died from massive brain swelling. Other patients have died in CAR-T trials at the National Cancer Institute and the University of Pennsylvania.
Scientists don’t fully understand why some CAR-T patients experience cytokine storms and neurotoxicity and others come out cured. “It’s kind of like the equivalent of getting on a Wright Brother’s airplane as opposed to walking on a 747 today,” says Wendell Lim, a biophysical chemist and director of the UC San Francisco Center for Systems and Synthetic Biology. To go from bumping along at a few hundred feet to cruise control at Mach 0.85 will mean equipping T cells with cancer-sensing receptors that are more specific than the current offerings.
Take the two FDA-approved CAR-T cell therapies, he says. They both treat blood cancers in which immune responders called B cells become malignant and spread throughout the body. Doctors reprogram patients’ T cells to seek out a B cell receptor called CD-19. When they find it, they latch on and shoot it full of toxins. Thing is, the reprogrammed T cells can’t really tell the difference between cancerous B cells and normal ones. The therapy just takes them all out. Now, you can live without B cells if you receive antibody injections to compensate—so the treatment works out fine most of the time.
But solid tumors are trickier—they’re made up of a mix of cells with different genetic profiles. Scientists have to figure out which tumor cells matter to the growth of the cancer and which ones don’t. Then they have to design T cells with antigens that can target just those ones and nothing else. An ideal signature would involve two to three antigens that your assassin T cells can use to pinpoint the target with a bullet instead of a grenade.
Last year Lim launched a startup called Cell Design Labs to try to do just that, as well as creating a molecular on-off-switch to make treatments more controlled. Only if researchers can gain this type of precise command, says Lim, will CAR-T treatments become as safe and predictable as commercial airline flight.
The field has matured considerably since Coley first shot his dying patient full of a dangerous bacteria, crossed his fingers, and hoped for the best. Sure, the guy lived, even making a miraculous full recovery. But many after him didn’t. And that “fingers crossed” approach still lingers over immunotherapy today.
All these years later, the immune system remains a fickle ally in the war on cancer. Keeping the good guys from going double-agent is going to take a lot more science. But at least the revolution will be well-financed.
CRISPR is a new biomedical technique that enables powerful gene editing. WIRED challenged biologist Neville Sanjana to explain CRISPR to 5 different people; a child, a teen, a college student, a grad student, and a CRISPR expert.


For the first time, humans have detected an interstellar asteroid—a space rock they're calling 'Oumuamua, which is a Hawaiian word meaning "scout." It's the only object we've ever seen that entered the solar system from beyond our little collection of planets. That's a pretty big deal on its own. But on top of that, this asteroid has a really interesting shape: It's very long and skinny, with a width to length ratio of about 1 to 10.
Basically, it looks like a cigar—or at least that's what everyone is saying. The only images we have that show its shape in detail are artistic renderings. Because the asteroid is so relatively small and far away, you can't easily see it with a visible-light telescope.
But if you can't see it, how can you describe it? The answer to this (as in many situations in science) is to use indirect observations. The one thing that can be measured is the brightness of the object. Because this rock is also spinning, the light it reflects from the sun changes over time. By looking at the ratio of the brightest to weakest observations, you can get an estimate of largest to smallest size. If you estimate the albedo (a measure of reflectance), you can also estimate the total size.  Boom. There you have it—a cigar-shaped asteroid.
If you want to learn the answers to more "how do you know"-type questions about 'Oumuamua, check out this awesome NASA FAQ. But if you want to calculate some answers for yourself—well, just keep reading.
OK, everyone calm down. This isn't a page from Rendezvous with Rama—an Arthur C. Clarke novel that depicts an interstellar object that happens to be an alien starship. But what if it was a spaceship? Could its rotation make a type of artificial gravity?
From the data, we know the following two important things about 'Oumuamua: the length and the rotation rate. OK, we don't actually know the length, but it's somewhere between 200 and 400 meters. I'm going to use the bigger size. The rotation rate is known with more precision as it rotates once every 8.1 hours.
How would this make artificial gravity? Let me start with a diagram.
When this "spacecraft" is far away from a star or other massive objects, there is essentially no gravitational force acting on people inside. You can make fake gravity by spinning the spacecraft (as shown above). This spinning motion creates a force (labeled F above) that reproduces the effect of the floor pushing on you to counteract gravity. This force from the floor is what we feel on Earth. If you want a longer explanation, check out my older post about weight and weightlessness.
But why is there a force between the human (or maybe an alien) and the end of the rotating asteroid?  It's because the human is moving in a circle. In order to move in a circular motion, you need a force pointing towards the center of the circle. We often call this a centripetal force which means "center pointing force." The magnitude of this force depends on the mass of the object, the size of the circle and the rotation rate (ω).
Of course, different humans of different masses will have different forces—just like on Earth. So really it's just the acceleration that matters for artificial gravity; that's just the product of ω squared and the radius. If you get an acceleration of 9.8 m/s2, then you have successfully reproduced Earth-like gravity (but not really gravity—just apparent weight).
Now for the acceleration of the end of 'Oumuamua (it's sort of fun to say that out loud after you get used to it). This rock has a circular radius of 200 meters (I'm using the biggest value), but what about the angular velocity? Since it takes 8.1 hours for one rotation, ω would be 2 times π divided by 8.1 hours. Of course I really need this time in seconds, so that gives me:
Yes, that's a pretty slow rotation rate. Just for comparison, it takes the Earth about 24 hours to rotate. Now I can put this along with the radius to calculate the acceleration. This gives a centripetal acceleration of 9.3 x 10-6 m/s2 or an apparent weight that is just 9.48 x 10-7 of that on Earth—in other words, it's super tiny.
There, I just did the first homework question for you.  Now for some more. Note, some of these might require some complex calculations and estimations—that's what makes them fun.


"Nadie te quita lo bailado.” (No one can take from you what you’ve danced.)
For Federico Ardila, this Latin American expression epitomizes his approach to life and mathematics. It’s the driving force behind the parties he DJs in venues across the San Francisco Bay Area, where people dance till morning to the beats of his native Colombia. The dance floor is a place “where you have your freedom and you have your power, and nobody can take that away from you,” Ardila said.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
He taught the expression to his students at San Francisco State University, where he is a math professor, after giving them a punishingly hard exam. San Francisco State has a highly diverse student body, and Ardila, who just turned 40, is a prominent voice in the mathematics community about how to make students from underrepresented groups— such as women and people of color—feel that they belong. But on this occasion, as he looked around at his students’ demoralized faces, he knew he had missed the mark.
“Nadie te quita lo bailado,” Ardila told his students.
“I think that’s a very powerful message—that nobody can take away from you the joy that you’ve had doing mathematics,” he told Quanta Magazine in an interview last month. “And people can give you grades, but that’s not going to take away the freedom that you felt and the fulfillment that you felt.”
The expression also applies to Ardila’s research, though not always in ways he would have chosen. Four years ago in Portland, Oregon, a thief smashed his car window and made off with a backpack containing, as luck would have it, five years’ worth of work—all of Ardila’s notes from a sweeping new paper he was developing. Proofs, examples, counterexamples and conjectures were all gone.
But the thief couldn’t steal the mathematics Ardila had “danced” in his mind. Over the past few years, Ardila and his coauthor, Marcelo Aguiar of Cornell University, have painstakingly reconstructed their work unifying the geometric and algebraic sides of combinatorics—the study of discrete structures like a social network, a sudoku puzzle, or a phylogenetic tree. They finally posted their 113-page paper online in September, and in January Ardila will be presenting their work in an invited address at the Joint Mathematics Meetings, the biggest annual math conference in the United States.
Quanta spoke with Ardila at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute in Berkeley, California, where he is visiting for the fall semester, about the mathematics he has danced and taught. The interview has been condensed and edited for clarity.
Your mathematical talent was identified quite early—in fourth grade, you got the highest score in your age group in a national math competition in Colombia.
It was actually my sister, Natalia, who first showed great promise in mathematics. I was just the little brother. She and my cousin Ana María, they both performed really, really well in this national math competition. And I think the organizers probably said, “OK, these two women are very good, and then here’s the little brother who’s coming along to the awards ceremony. Maybe he’s OK also.”
I feel like from a young age, they were paying attention to me. I never enjoyed mathematics in school very much, but my experience through the Math Olympics was much more creative and much more playful.
And it turned out that it was, as many of these spaces are, a very male-dominated space, and eventually both my sister and my cousin felt uncomfortable with this space. I mean, they’re doing amazing things now; my cousin is an engineer and my sister is a music pedagogy professor. But I do think it’s kind of interesting—that was a space where I felt very comfortable and that felt very nurturing to me, and it didn’t feel so to other people. It was a space that was very “othering” for them. I think that’s always served to remind me of the role of a mathematician, of an educator, in curating the culture of a place. That’s why that’s been such a theme in my work.
You’ve said that you were surprised to get into the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where you did your undergraduate and doctoral studies. What’s the story there?
I had never heard of MIT. And it hadn’t crossed my mind to study abroad. I was already enrolled in the local university. But my classmate told me MIT had awesome financial aid and said the math there was really good. I wanted to learn more math, so I decided to play along and apply.
At that moment I was failing most of my classes in high school. It was not clear that I was going to graduate. I had a little bit of an attitude problem. I was very interested in a lot of things but I did not like being told, “Read this” or “Think this way.” I just kind of wanted to do things on my own terms.
I was failing, I think, six out of eight subjects. Had I known what MIT was, I should have known not to apply. There is no way I should have applied with that kind of transcript.
I like telling this story to my students because I think we often close doors to ourselves by thinking that we’re not eligible or that we’re not good enough. And especially if you’re somebody who feels “othered” in your discipline or who feels like you’re lacking confidence, it’s easy to close doors on yourself. There’s a lot of people in life who are ready to close doors for you, so you can’t do it for yourself.
When you came to the United States, as an undergraduate at MIT, it was your turn to feel like the “other.”
It’s not that anybody did anything to mistreat me or to doubt me or to explicitly make me feel unwelcome, but I definitely felt very different. I mean, my mathematical education was outstanding and I had fantastic access to professors and really interesting material, but I only realized in retrospect that I was extremely isolated.
There’s a system in place that makes certain people comfortable and others uncomfortable, I think just by the nature of who’s in the space. And I say that without wanting to point fingers, because I think you can be critical about the spaces that “other” you, but you also have to be critical about the ways in which you “other” other people.
I think because mathematics sees itself as very objective, we think we can just say, “Well, logically, this seems to make sense that we’re doing everything correctly.” I think sometimes we’re a little bit oblivious as to what is the culture of a place, or who feels welcome, or what are we doing to make them feel welcome?
So when I try to create mathematical spaces, I try to be very mindful of letting people be their full human selves. And I hope that will give people more access to tools and opportunities.
What are some of the ways you do that in your teaching?
In a classroom I’m the professor, and so in some sense I’m the culture keeper. And one thing that I try to do—and it’s a little bit scary and it’s not easy—is to really try to shift the power dynamic and make sure that students feel like equally powerful contributors to the place. I try to create spaces where we’re kind of together constructing a mathematical reality.
So, for example, I taught a combinatorics class, and in every single class every single student did something active and communicated their mathematical ideas to somebody else. The structure of the class was such that they couldn’t just sit there and be passive.
I believe in the power of music, and so I got each one of them to play a song for the rest for us at the beginning of each class. At the beginning it felt like this wild experiment where I didn’t know what was going to happen, but I was really moved by their responses.
Some of them would dedicate the song to their mom and talk about how whenever they’re studying math, they’re very aware that their mom worked incredibly hard to give them the opportunity to be the first ones in their family to go to college. Another student played this song in Arabic called “Freedom.” And she was talking about how in this day and age it’s very difficult for her to feel at home and welcome and free in this country, and how mathematics for her is a place where nobody can take her freedom away.
That classroom felt like no other classroom that I’ve ever taught in. It was a very human experience, and it was one of the richest math classrooms that I’ve had. I think one worries when you do that, “Are you covering enough mathematics?” But when students are engaged so actively and when you really listen to their ideas, then magic happens that you couldn’t have done by preparing a class and just delivering it.
Mathematics has this stereotype of being an emotionless subject, but you describe it in very emotional terms—for instance, in course curricula you promise your students a “joyful” experience.
I think doing mathematics is tremendously emotional, and I think that anybody who does mathematics knows this. I just don’t think that we have the emotional awareness or vocabulary to talk about this as a community. But you walk around this building and people are making these discoveries, and there are so many emotions going on—a lot of frustration and a lot of joy.
I think one thing that happens is we don’t acknowledge this as a culture—because mathematics is emotional in sometimes very difficult ways. It can really make you feel very bad about yourself sometimes. You can be pushing on something for six months and then have it collapse, and that hurts. I don’t think we talk about that hurt enough. And the joy of discovering something after six months of working on it is really deep.
Your own research is in combinatorics. And the paper you’ll be presenting at the Joint Mathematics Meetings connects two different ways of understanding combinatorial structures, through the lenses of geometry and algebra. How do those two approaches work?
When you look at the geometric side of things, suppose, for example, you want to study the permutations (the ways of rearranging a collection of objects). It’s pretty well known that if you have n objects, the number of ways of putting them in a row is n factorial (the product n(n-1)(n-2)…1). So it’s not a very interesting problem to count how many ways there are. But what is their inherent structure?
If you look at when two permutations are related to each other by just swapping two elements, then you start understanding not only how many there are but how are they related to each other. And then, when you say, “OK, let’s take all the permutations, and put an edge between two of them if they’re a swap away,” then you find that you get this beautiful shape that’s a polytope (a geometric object with flat sides). I think it’s completely surprising initially that the inherent relations between permutations are captured in this beautiful polytope called a permutahedron. So all of a sudden you have this geometric model, and you can use tools from polytope theory to try to say new things about permutations. And that polytope has existed for a long time and is very well understood.
And then you can also think of permutations algebraically—there’s a natural sort of “multiplication” on permutations, in which the product of two permutations is the permutation you get by doing one permutation after the other.
This is one of the most important objects in algebra, this group of permutations.
The Mathematician Who Will Make You Fall in Love With Numbers
Unknown Mathematician Proves Elusive Property of Prime Numbers
Meet the Guy Who Sorts All the World's Numbers in His Attic
There are these two traditions, to take combinatorial objects and either make them geometric or make them algebraic. This project with Marcelo Aguiar was about trying to bring together these two points of view, and in fact we discovered that polytopes like the permutahedra have an additional related algebraic structure. I think we found a really beautiful connection between the geometric and the algebraic structure of combinatorial objects. We got a dozen results just from building this architecture and then reaping the benefits.
For many, though by no means all, mathematicians, teaching takes a back seat to research. But for you, it seems that teaching and research are very much intertwined. You often give your students open-ended problems, and you’ve co-authored many papers with students.
I love working with students. And I love sharing the joy of discovery with them. Most of my students are master’s and undergrad students, because San Francisco State doesn’t have a PhD program. I think that has steered my research to things that are more immediately accessible. But still, I need the questions to be very deep.
I’m very excited about my research. I think I’m doing the most interesting research of my life right now. People tell you at 40 you start declining, and I feel like I’m getting good now.
Almost a decade ago you founded a DJ collective based in Oakland. How does that tie into your work as a mathematician and teacher?
When I DJ I’m really looking for joy, and I’m looking to create an atmosphere where people can build bridges and connect. My professor side comes out a little bit, because I play a lot of stuff that people don’t know, and I try to play music from many places that they haven’t thought about.
I also see music as a tool for social change. Some of the events I do are social benefits—it’s about music, but it’s also about feeding the soul and getting ready for the change that you want to make in the world. It feels very similar to the kind of atmosphere that I try to create in a classroom. I see all of these things as being connected.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Seventeen-year-old Catherine Ray just received a $100,000 Thiel Fellowship. Armed with a B.S. in computational physics, the mathematics whiz is planning to fix everything that’s wrong with wheelchairs. Get to know the teen technorati.


Imagine a world without grapes. Someday greenhouses like the one above may be our last defense against such a fate. Beneath the glow of high-voltage lamps, dozens of crop samples grow at the Agricultural Experiment Station in Geneva, New York. Here, Cornell University scientists crossbreed domesticated crops with their wild ancestors to propagate superhardy strains that better withstand droughts, heat waves, and freezes. The facility is one of more than 50 such USDA-funded research stations nationwide, where scientists are studying climate-­resilient produce. They use techniques such as genotyping (scanning plant genomes to identify specific, beneficial genes) and tissue culture analysis to capture the desirable traits of feral plants—like heat or cold tolerance—and introduce them into common crops. In his new book, Human Nature, photographer Lucas Foglia documents these agricultural experiments as a rumination on the intersection of nature and technology. “It’s amazing to me that the future of our food is being developed in these simple greenhouses,” Foglia says. But the station’s understated exterior belies the advanced science within. Blight-proof peppers, disease-repelling grapes, and rot-resistant raspberries ripen just behind the frosty glass.
A pineapple shoot grows in a test tube at the National Laboratory for Genetic Resource Preservation in Fort Collins, Colorado. Plant samples are frozen as backup clones in the event of a destructive climate event or disease. “It’s a pineapple in case of disaster,” Foglia says.
This article appears in the December issue. Subscribe now.
How do we feed a growing population in areas where land is scarce? Produced for Mouser Electronics by the WIRED Brand Lab


I can’t sit here and promise you that the robot apocalypse isn’t coming, that the machines won’t eventually rise up and overthrow their makers. But what I can promise you is that not all of them will be able to punch you out. Because robots are going soft. Like, literally soft, controlled with liquid or air instead of traditional motors. It’s called soft robotics, naturally, and it’s hot at the moment.
Problem, though: Without the rigidity and powerful motors of your typical robot, soft robots have been weak. That is, until now. Researchers at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory and Harvard’s Wyss Institute have developed a new kind of soft robotic muscle inspired by origami and awesomeness. It’s essentially a bag filled with air, inside of which is an origami structure that functions as a skeleton. By pumping air in and out, the researchers can get the muscle to lift 1,000 times its own weight. By comparison, a more traditional robot arm like the super popular UR10, which weighs in at 64 pounds, can lift a third of its weight.
“That's really amazing, if you think about it, you lift 1,000 times more than what you weigh,” says roboticist Daniela Rus of MIT CSAIL. “So we think that this will be really transformational for how we use soft robots in manufacturing, in homes, in everyday life.”
The secret is that skeleton. Without it, you could get a soft robotic muscle to contract, sure. Think Baymax from Big Hero 6, who can deflate and squeeze through windows. But in reality, a soft robot like that wouldn’t be very strong. The skeleton gives you both strength and the ability to start messing with how the muscle moves.
So for instance, if you want to do a straight-up lifting motion, an accordion-style skeleton might work best. But you might also 3-D print other origami shapes to execute other maneuvers. “Through those different patterns, we're able to actuate rotational motions or twisting motions,” Rus says.
You could then also combine these different muscles as modules to form a more complicated robot, like the one at the top of this story. The fingers bend inward to grasp the tire, while the stem contracts upwards to lift.
The beauty of this kind of system is its literal and figurative flexibility. Just as you could combine different muscles, you could work with different materials for the skin. So you'd use silicone, for instance, to resist heat, but you could also use materials that dissolve in water to make a disposable aquatic robot.
Soft robots would get along with humans better, which means robots will collaborate with us, not outright steal our jobs. Sure, they'll be extremely strong, but they'll also be extremely sensitive. Robotic arms like the UR10 I mentioned earlier already stop if they make contact with a human, and expect the softies to do the same. So the soft robots of the near future will combine brawn and gentleness, making them even safer than "hard" devices. Like André the Giant, only with fewer sideburns.
The next step? Making a soft robotic elephant. Scaled down, of course. “I like the elephant trunk because it's such a sophisticated manipulation mechanism,” Rus says.
Let's also get a robotic avatar of André the Giant while we're at it. Maybe André riding an elephant. Yeah, there we go.
The robotic snake has 16 windpipe-constricting actuators, but this serpent bot is more likely to save your life than suck it out of you.


In Tampa, the conference center’s roof leaked. In Austin, the airport flooded. In Reno, conference organizers had to wait until a motorcycle rally was over before they could do some setup.
During preparation for the SC Conference, a supercomputing meeting, there’s always something getting in the way of networking. But the conference, held annually in November, is perhaps more sensitive to water, delays, and herds of bikes than your average gathering. Because every year, a group of volunteers shows up weeks in advance to build, from the literal ground up, the world’s fastest temporary network. The conference's attendees and exhibitors—from scientific researchers to industry bigwigs—need superfast, reliable connections to stream in the results of their simulations and data analysis. Called SCinet, the network “takes one year to plan, three weeks to build, one week to operate, and less than 24 hours to tear down,” according to its catchphrase.
After all, what good is high-performance computing if its results can’t reach the wider world?
This year, in Denver, one difficulty was elevation—not of the city itself, but of the exhibit hall. The 188 volunteers built up the networks' 13 equipment racks on the floor below the big, main space, constructing the infrastructure that could eventually handle around 3.6 terabits per second of traffic. (For reference, that's probably around 400,000 times more powerful than your personal connection.) And then, after construction, they had to move those millions of dollars of delicate equipment—down a hall, into an elevator, up a floor, and across the exhibit hall.
On November 8, volunteers moved the equipment on customized racklifts. “Welcome to the crazy,” someone said, unprompted, as he rushed past. The SCinetters moved like tightrope walkers, servers in tow, toward the elevators.
One floor up, a guy wearing a Scooby Doo hat pulled up with a forklift, gingerly skewered one rack, and began to lift it to the central stage. As the rack approached the platform, other volunteers put their hands on it, like digital pallbearers. When they were done, eight racks sat on the stage—the beating, blinking heart of the network. Among other duties, it coordinates with the five other racks scattered strategically around the room, ready for the exhibitors that needed 100 gigabit connections, and those requiring mere 1 or 10 gigabit hookups.
https://twitter.com/Supercomputing/status/930123674471895045
The demonstrations started on November 13. NASA brought out a simulation of how shockwaves from meteorites affect the atmosphere—and then how their effects reach the ground, from impacts to tsunamis. Also on board: a simulation showing how person-transporting drones could work, and a global weather prediction model. The Department of Energy presented about particle accelerators, quantum computing in science, and cancer surveillance.
The company Nyriad Limited, meanwhile, has aligned its stars with the International Centre of Radio Astronomy Research, to develop a "science data processing" operating system for a telescope called the Murchison Widefield Array, which itself is a precursor to the Square Kilometer Array. The Square Kilometer Array will require more computing power than any previous one: Its data rate will exceed today's global internet traffic. Nyriad, at the conference, revealed its first commercial offering, spun out of its SKA work: a fast and low-power storage solution useful beyond the world of astronomy.
But their talks would have been all talk were it not for the homebuilt network that let them show and tell. In the weeks leading up to the actual conference, the SCinet volunteers laid 60 miles of fiber and crafted 280 WiFi access points for the nearly 13,000 attendees and their attendant devices. Oh, also, they had to have a network service provider crack up a road to illuminate a dark fiber connection.
The Astonishing Engineering Behind America's Latest, Greatest Supercomputer
Why You Should Put Your Supercomputer in Wyoming
China's New Supercomputer Puts the US Even Further Behind
SCinet requires lots of physical and mental labor, but people keep coming back because it's their brand of fun—and the kind of professional development they could never get at an individual institution. “They get to touch and play with equipment that they normally wouldn't get to touch and play with in their day jobs,” says Jackie Kern, former general chair of the whole conference and of SCinet. They learn new networking tricks, bring back big-kid versions of their knowledge base, and meet some of the world’s top network types. “It’s a Rolodex moment,” says Jeffrey Schwab, current SCinet chair.
Also, it’s summer camp for people who like to tape fiber to floors. “Everyone wants to be here,” says Schwab.
And the organization is trying to help make it more welcoming to more different kinds of people. Kate Petersen Mace helps run the Women in IT Networking at SC program, which has fully funded 19 women volunteers' attendance since 2015 (around 22 percent of the total number of volunteers, this year, were women). In the male-dominated networking network, that kind of professional opportunity can be rare. Mace says she has often been the only woman in a given professional space. “I got kind of used to it and didn’t think about it,” she says. But the differences and the deficits snap into relief once there are more women in the exhibit hall (real and proverbial), watching the blinking lights on a set of server racks together alongside their male colleagues. "You feel more empowered to speak up," says Mace.
A few hours after the first rack lift, Jim Stewart of the Utah Education and Telehealth Network, who co-chairs the architecture team, treks up to the exhibit hall. All of the equipment is on stage, and SCinet volunteers have installed mirrors behind it, so passersby can appreciate the effort in all dimensions. It won’t last long, though. Remember the catchphrase? “…less than 24 hours to tear down.”
Stewart surveys the hall, thinking, apparently, of creation and destruction. “We’re not even done turning it up, and we are talking about getting out,” he says.
Leigh Orf, an an atmospheric scientist, narrates a simulation of a superstorm tornado created by one of the world's most powerful supercomputers.


Intelligence is not a quality to attribute lightly to microbes. There is no reason to think that bacteria, slime molds and similar single-cell forms of life have awareness, understanding or other capacities implicit in real intellect. But particularly when these cells commune in great numbers, their startling collective talents for solving problems and controlling their environment emerge. Those behaviors may be genetically encoded into these cells by billions of years of evolution, but in that sense the cells are not so different from robots programmed to respond in sophisticated ways to their environment. If we can speak of artificial intelligence for the latter, perhaps it’s not too outrageous to refer to the underappreciated cellular intelligence of the former.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Under the microscope, the incredible exercise of the cells’ collective intelligence reveals itself with spectacular beauty. Since 1983, Roberto Kolter, a professor of microbiology and immunobiology at Harvard Medical School and co-director of the Microbial Sciences Initiative, has led a laboratory that has studied these phenomena. In more recent years, it has also developed techniques for visualizing them. In the photographic essay book Life at the Edge of Sight: A Photographic Exploration of the Microbial World (Harvard University Press), released in September, Kolter and his co-author, Scott Chimileski, a research fellow and imaging specialist in his lab, offer an appreciation of microorganisms that is both scientific and artistic, and that gives a glimpse of the cellular wonders that are literally underfoot. Imagery from the lab is also on display in the exhibition World in a Drop at the Harvard Museum of Natural History. That display will close in early January but will be followed by a broader exhibition, Microbial Life, scheduled to open in February.
The slime mold Physarum polycephalum sometimes barely qualifies as a microorganism at all: When it oozes across the leaf litter of a forest floor during the active, amoeboid stage of its life cycle, it can look like a puddle of yellowish goo between an inch and a meter across. Yet despite its size, Physarum is a huge single cell, with tens of thousands of nuclei floating in an uninterrupted mass of cytoplasm. In this form, Physarum is a superbly efficient hunter. When sensors on its cell membrane detect good sources of nutrients, contractile networks of proteins (closely related to the ones found in human muscle) start pumping streams of cytoplasm in that direction, advancing the slime mold toward what it needs.
But Physarum is not just reflexively surging toward food. As it moves in one direction, signals transmitted throughout the cell discourage it from pushing counterproductively along less promising routes. Moreover, slime molds have evolved a system for essentially mapping their terrain and memorizing where not to go: As they move, they leave a translucent chemical trail behind that tells them which areas are not worth revisiting.
When bacteria were first observed through a microscope, suspended in liquid on slides, in their simplicity they seemed like the archetypes of primitive, solitary cells. The truth, however, is that in the wild, most bacteria are highly gregarious. Some bacteria do swim through their environment as lonely individuals but most bacterial cells—and most species of bacteria—prefer to live in compact societies called biofilms anchored to surfaces. (The individual swimmers often represent offshoots of biofilms, seeking to colonize new locations.)
Moreover, biofilms are not just dense accumulations of bacterial cells. They have elaborate functional structures, inside and out, that serve the cells’ collective destiny, as can be seen in the images below of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The biofilm is stained with Congo red dye, which bonds to the extracellular matrix proteins that the bacteria secrete as a scaffolding for their community. The deeply wrinkled surface of the biofilm maximizes the area through which the bacteria can absorb oxygen; it also probably helps them collect nutrients and release waste products efficiently.
Within the biofilm, the bacteria divide the labor of maintaining the colony and differentiate into forms specialized for their function. In this biofilm of the common soil bacterium Bacillus subtilis, for example, some cells secrete extracellular matrix and anchor in place, while some stay motile; cells at the edges of the biofilm may divide for growth, while others in the middle release spores for surviving tough conditions and colonizing new locations.
One might wonder why natural selection would have favored this collective behavior instead of more rampant individualism among the cells. Part of the answer might be what evolutionary theorists call inclusive fitness: In so far as the bacteria within a biofilm are related, individual sacrifices are offset by the increases in fitness to each cell’s millions of cousins. But it may also be that every role within the biofilm has its advantages: Cells at the edge are most exposed to dangers and must reproduce furiously to expand the biofilm, but they also have access to the most nutrients and oxygen. Cells on the inside depend on others for their vital rations but they may survive longer.
The surfaces that biofilms grow across are not always solid. These B. subtilis are forming a pellicle—a kind of floating biofilm at the interface between water and air. The genetic pathways involved in forming a pellicle are essentially the same as those used in growing across stones, though they may respond to the changes in their habitat by altering the precise mix of proteins in the extracellular matrix as needed.
Expansive growth is not the only way in which microbial communities can move. Below, B. subtilis is engaging in a behavior called dendritic swarming, in which cells rapidly push outward in branching columns that can efficiently pave a surface. Biofilms swarm when they detect that they are in environments rich in nutrients: Swarming helps a biofilm exploit this valuable territory before any competing communities can.
At least two important changes in the differentiation of the cells in a biofilm take place to enable swarming. First, motile cells on the periphery of the film develop extra flagellae, which enables them to swim more energetically. Second, some edge cells also begin to secrete surfactant, a slippery material that helps the motile cells slide more rapidly over the surface.
When biofilms grow in flat laboratory dishes, the dendritic columns of swarming biofilms remain neatly distinct: They extend and coil in and around one another but they do not cross. That seems to be in part because the surfactant piles up around the biofilm branches as a barrier. Similarly, some bacteria can swarm in more terraced structures under laboratory conditions. What the implications of that option are for bacteria in nature is still a mystery.
Another type of behavior demonstrated by biofilms growing under laboratory conditions is spiral migration, demonstrated in the time-lapse video below of Bacillus mycoides. These bacterial cells grow in long chains or filaments that curl either clockwise or counterclockwise. The specific advantages of this spiraling movement are still under investigation, according to Chimileski, but they must be considerable because B. mycoides excels at taking over available environments. “Bacillus mycoides is one of the easiest bacterial species to cultivate from the soil,” he explained. When scientists isolate microbes from soil and grow them on agar dishes, particularly at room temperature, “the mycoides will often spread across the entire plate and overtake all of the other organisms. For this reason, it is considered if anything a kind of ‘nuisance species’ for many microbiologists.”
Swirling Bacteria Illuminate the Strange Physics of Swarms
Microbes May Rig Their DNA to Speed Up Evolution
The Mysterious Machinery of Creatures That Glow in the Deep
What’s curious is that the direction of the spiraling migration—clockwise or counterclockwise—seems to be a hereditary trait: Different strains of bacteria, even within the same species, spiral in different directions. It is yet another example of how bacteria, obeying instructions in their individual DNA, can manifest problem-solving behaviors that are surprisingly complex and adaptive at the collective level of biofilms.
These geometric and presumably functional patterns that biofilms produce in culture are intriguingly beautiful. Yet Chimileski notes that there is much left to discover when it comes to translating behaviors seen in the lab to natural microbial communities.
Chimileski points out that “most natural biofilms are multi-species ecosystems and cells inside natural biofilms usually grow more slowly.” He continued, “I like to think of the way we grow bacteria in a petri plate, where a single species is by itself and has everything it needs to grow at optimal temperatures, as ‘turning up the volume’ on the biology of the organism.” Under laboratory conditions, researchers can study which genes are involved in complex multicellular behaviors and they can measure the benefits to the fitness of the bacterial species. But in natural environments, biofilms don’t usually get to form exactly the same patterns as in the lab because of limited nutrients or competition with other species. “So the same biology might be occurring on a particle of soil in your backyard at smaller size scales and over longer time periods,” he said, even if it is less easy to visualize.
Biofilm behaviors testify to the capacity and openness of bacterial to form collectives—but that openness has limits, as shown in this culture with several cohabiting biofilms. Here, adjacent biofilms that consist of the same bacteria or closely related strains comfortably merge. But the adjacent biofilms made up of more divergent bacteria keep themselves distinct and may even try to eliminate or control each other.
Biofilms are so intolerant of other strains and species because they invest considerably in the production of surfactant, extracellular matrix and other molecules that bacteriologists classify as public goods—ones that the bacteria secrete for other members of their community. The bacteria guard these jealously because unrelated freeloading cells could benefit strongly by using them first.
Biofilms rebuff such freeloaders in different ways. For example, the B. subtilis colonies in this image adopt a strategy of “kin discrimination,” in which they secrete antibiotic compounds that are toxic to other species but not to their own. Proteus mirabilis bacteria defend their interests in a different way based on “self-recognition”: The P. mirabilis biofilms examine encroaching cells, stab any from a different species with a spearlike structure and inject them with poisons that will kill almost all but closely related species.
The colors appearing in the biofilm culture of Streptomyces coelicolor in the video below reflect natural pigments that the bacteria produce. The value of the pigments for the biofilms is not entirely clear, but it is probably not tied to their color. Rather, these pigment molecules are often bioactive in various ways. “The blue pigment seen in this video is actinorhodin, which is technically an antibiotic,” Chimileski said, but added that the term is misleading in this context. “Killing or growth inhibition usually occurs only at very high concentrations relative to what is out in nature.” For that reason, he said, there is “an emerging view that killing is probably not the ecological function of many or most antibiotics. Rather, these bioactive molecules act as signals or developmental cues” to other cells.
That view is echoed in a note from Gleb Pishchany, another research fellow in Kolter’s laboratory who studies how diverse types of bacteria cohabit. “An intriguing possibility is that in natural ecosystems, Streptomyces use pigments and other bioactive molecules” at “lower concentrations as signals that are exchanged among multispecies microbial communities,” he wrote. The pigments may help cohabiting assortments of bacteria rein in one another’s less neighborly instincts, and thereby maintain a more cooperative and fruitful communal existence.
These striking photographs of microbe communities were captured by DSLR cameras. Chimileski collects his still images with macro lenses while working at the bench, while the videos are made in an incubator dedicated to time-lapse microscopy. He sets the camera to snap a picture every 10 minutes, although he increases the frequency to every minute or two for behaviors happening more quickly, such as the movements of slime molds. As a result, the movements of the microbes in these videos are typically accelerated between 5,000 and 50,000 times their actual speeds. Chimileski does not use false color to beautify the images: Aside from using dyes to stain the extracellular matrix in some cultures, he shows the natural coloration of the microorganisms.
Chimileski typically grows bacterial colonies at 30°C, a temperature at which he can collect images of slower growing species for several weeks. Although the heat and humidity suited to biofilm growth are less than ideal for cameras, he said the equipment is rated for more extreme conditions. The few cameras that have malfunctioned did so for a mechanical reason: The number of shots that he needs to document microbial behaviors is so large that the shutters on the cameras eventually break down after hundreds of thousands of clicks.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Scientists are looking to an unlikely source for new ways to fight bacteria. Could the skin of a Galapagos shark hold the key to warding off hospital-born bacteria and superbugs?


In 2009, Dan Hooper and his colleagues found a glow coming from the center of our galaxy that no one had ever noticed before. After analyzing publicly available data from the Fermi Gamma Ray Space Telescope, a satellite launched a year earlier, the team concluded that the center of the Milky Way was radiating more gamma rays than astrophysicists could account for.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
The finding was so unexpected that, at the time, few believed that it was real. It didn’t help that Hooper wasn’t a member of the Fermi collaboration, but rather an outsider picking over the data that the Fermi team made public. One of the scientists working on Fermi called his work “amateurish,” arguing that Hooper simply didn’t know how to properly interpret the data.
Yet as time wore on, astrophysicists began to realize that there’s a lot more high-energy radiation streaming through the galaxy than they could explain. Just a year before Hooper started analyzing Fermi data, a gamma-ray detector in New Mexico called Milagro had found an abundance of super-energetic gamma rays that appeared to come from all across the galactic plane. And in 2014, the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer, an experiment on the International Space Station, found more antimatter streaming through the galaxy than could be accounted for, confirming earlier observations by satellite and balloon experiments.
These three anomalies—if real—showed that something was going on in the universe that we didn’t know about. A number of astrophysicists, including Hooper, began to argue that two of these mysterious signals were an astrophysical echo of dark matter, the profoundly mysterious substance thought to make up about a quarter of the universe.
This year, almost a decade after the launch of the Fermi telescope, researchers have nearly arrived at a consensus. First, pretty much all astrophysicists now agree that the center of our Milky Way produces much more gamma radiation than our models of known gamma-ray sources suggest, said Luigi Tibaldo, an astrophysicist at Stanford University and member of the Fermi collaboration, thus validating Hooper’s once-“amateurish” claims.
Second, all that extra radiation is probably not due to dark matter. A number of recent studies have convinced many researchers that pulsars—rapidly spinning neutron stars—can explain all three mysteries.
The only problem is that no one seems to be able to find them.
The center of the galaxy is a crowded place, dense with stars, dust and—presumably—dark matter. Astrophysicists have long believed that dark matter is probably made out of particles that don’t readily interact with ordinary matter—so-called “weakly interacting massive particles,” or WIMPs. Occasionally these WIMPs might collide with one another. When they do, they could produce gamma rays. Perhaps that’s just what’s going on in the galactic center, Hooper suggested back in 2009.
The theory dovetailed with another idea that Hooper had put forward just a year earlier. In 2008, he and three co-authors published a paper arguing that collisions of neutralinos—a type of WIMP—generated showers of exotic particles that then decayed into elementary particles. The process would explain the anomalously high levels of positrons (the antimatter counterpart of electrons) found earlier by a space-based experiment called Pamela.
In this case, Hooper was in good company. Since Pamela’s first results, “without exaggeration” around 1,000 papers have tried to explain the positron excess mystery, said Tim Linden, an astrophysicist at Ohio State University. The majority of these papers favored the dark-matter interpretation. In 2014, the Pamela results were buttressed by data coming from the AMS.
Yet other scientists quickly started to poke holes in both of these dark-matter–based explanations. In the case of the galactic center, WIMP collisions should create a smooth, hazy glow of gamma rays, like a floodlight seen through thick fog. When astrophysicists examined the gamma-ray glow in detail, however, they found a pointillist patchwork of light. It appeared as though the gamma rays were coming from many individual point sources.
And if WIMPs were producing all those positrons, they should also be creating a lot of gamma rays. Yet when astronomers look out at nearby dwarf galaxies—thought to be home to a huge amount of dark matter—the gamma rays don’t appear.
The tension in these dark-matter models has forced astrophysicists to consider some more astrophysically prosaic options.
Even though most scientists are fairly certain that dark matter exists (even if we cannot directly observe it), the models are still considered exotic. What’s much less exotic are astrophysical sources of radiation that we can actually detect with our telescopes. So as the data began to undermine the case for dark matter, many researchers, including Hooper, began to contemplate a much more mundane explanation: pulsars.
Pulsars are ultra-dense, rapidly rotating objects—neutron stars, the dead cores of massive stars that have gone supernova. They emit jets of radiation that spin around with the pulsar like the beam from a lighthouse. As this beam crosses Earth, our telescopes register a flash of energy.
In 2015, two groups—one led by Christoph Weniger, an astrophysicist at the University of Amsterdam, and the other by Tracy Slatyer, a theoretical physicist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology—separately presented evidence that gave the pulsar theory a major boost. Each team used slightly different methods, but essentially they both divided the region of the sky covering the galactic center into numerous pixels. They then counted the number of fluctuations in each pixel—watching, essentially, for lighthouse beams to swing across the face of Earth. The researchers discovered big differences between pixels—hot and cold patches in the sky, which are much easier to explain if one assumes that the signal comes from different point sources. “This is what you would expect from pulsars, because there could be brighter pulsars, or more pulsars, at some sky locations compared to others,” said Linden.
Most astrophysicists now think that the strange abundance of positrons in the galaxy may also be due to pulsars. Pulsars generate huge magnetic fields that spin along with the rest of the object. A spinning magnetic field will generate an electric field, and this electric field pulls electrons from the surface of the pulsar and accelerates them rapidly. As the electrons curve through the magnetic fields, the electrons will emit high-energy gamma rays. Some of this radiation is energetic enough to spontaneously morph into pairs of electrons and positrons that then escape from the pulsar’s strong magnetic grasp.
There are a lot of steps in this process, and a lot of uncertainty. Specifically, researchers want to know how much of the pulsar’s energy goes into making these electron-positron pairs. Is it a fraction of a percentage point? Or a significant total, something like 20 or even 40 percent of the pulsar’s energy? If the latter, pulsars might be making enough positrons to explain the antimatter excess.
Researchers had to find a way to measure the number of electrons and positrons coming out of pulsars. Unfortunately, this is an extremely difficult task. Electrons and positrons, being charged particles, will loop and twist their way through the galaxy. If you detect one from Earth, it’s hard to know where it came from.
Gamma rays, on the other hand, stick to a straight path. With this in mind, researchers working with the High-Altitude Water Cherenkov Gamma-Ray Observatory in Mexico have recently made detailed studies of two relatively bright and relatively nearby pulsars, Geminga and Monogem. They examined not just the gamma rays coming from the pulsar itself, but also the super-energetic gamma rays (1,000 times more energetic than the excess streaming from the galactic center) that appeared as a relatively broad halo around the pulsars. Throughout this halo, high-energy electrons coming from the pulsar collided with low-energy photons from ambient starlight. The collisions transferred huge amounts of energy to the poky photons, like a sledgehammer smashing golf balls into orbit.
Earlier this year, a team that included Hooper and Linden published a study that compared the brightness of the pulsars with the brightness of their halos. They concluded that 8 to 27 percent of Geminga’s energy had to be converted to electrons and positrons, said Linden. For Monogem, it was twice as much. “This means that pulsars produce a tremendous population of electrons and positrons within our galaxy,” said Linden.
Slatyer said the research is “the first time we’ve really had any handle on the spectrum of high-energy positrons produced by pulsars, so this is a big step forward.”
The work also helps to explain the strange excess of very-high-energy gamma rays that were found a decade ago by the Milagro detector in New Mexico. The radiation could be coming from pulsar-generated electrons and positrons accelerating ambient starlight.
One hurdle remains: finding enough pulsars to account for all the mysterious emission. “We should see about 50 [bright] pulsars in the galactic center to produce the excess,” said Linden. “Instead we’ve only found a handful.” Similarly, we don’t yet know of enough pulsars in the rest of the galaxy to explain away the positron excess or the abundance of ultra-high-energy gamma rays found by Milagro and HAWC.
The issue doesn’t bother pulsar proponents that much, though. They hope that in the near future a new generation of radio telescopes — such as MeerKAT in South Africa and its planned successor, the Square Kilometer Array in South Africa and Australia — will find the so far invisible radio sources in our galaxy.
Meet the Physicist Searching for Dark Matter’s Hidden Light
Squishy or Solid? A Neutron Star’s Insides Open to Debate
Physicists Want to Rebuild Quantum Theory From Scratch
So is the dark matter-vs.-pulsars debate settled? For positrons, it appears to be so. While many more researchers used to favor the dark matter interpretation originally, most now lean towards pulsars.
And in the galactic center, pulsars are “the Occam’s razor candidate,” said Slatyer. “You could explain the data just as well with a dark-matter-annihilation scenario, but we knew pulsars were there and we don’t know if dark matter annihilates, so you could consider the pulsar scenario to be simpler.”
According to Slatyer, the dark-matter explanation for the galactic center could yet make a comeback, and there is indeed another way to test the dark-matter hypothesis. When cosmic rays interact with interstellar material, and—in theory—during dark-matter annihilations, they produce antiprotons, the antiparticle twin of a proton. Pulsars cannot produce antiprotons. If researchers were to find more antiprotons than could be accounted for by cosmic rays, the discovery would boost the dark-matter scenario. This is exactly what preliminary results from AMS have shown: a possible excess of antiprotons that may be consistent with annihilating dark-matter particles. AMS scientists aren’t making any conclusions about the source of the antiprotons, but two papers came out this year arguing that dark matter could be behind the antiproton excess.
For Linden, the pulsar confirmation would mean even more. For decades, he said, when we have thought about the energetics of cosmic rays in our universe, we’ve always thought about supernovas, producing protons that then generate all of the cosmic rays detected. “We have had this really pretty picture where supernovas produce everything,” said Linden. “Everything links together and looks perfect.”
But in setting up that model, the energetics from pulsars are generally neglected, he added—despite pulsars’ being among the highest-energy objects in space. “So if this new picture holds up, and pulsars produce these excesses, then it really changes our interpretation of the source of most of the very energetic radiation in galaxies, and maybe throughout the universe,” said Linden.
It might be a case of Pulsars: 3, Dark Matter: 0, at least for now. “But I would be lying if I said I didn’t want these signals to turn out to be dark matter,” said Linden. “That would be so, so much more exciting.”
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
In honor of NASA's Juno mission photos, here are some astounding images of our galaxy taken over the years.


The holidays are prime reading season. All that travel and post-meal lounging will give you plenty of time to plow through the books that have been stacking up on your bedside table for the past year. Just be sure to grab a good one. Your body will already be full of empty calories—you don't want your brain to be stuffed with junk, too.
Endurance by Scott Kelly
When Scott Kelly returned to Earth in March of 2016, he became the proud possessor of a major space record: He had completed the single-longest spaceflight—340 days—ever undertaken by an American. In his new book, Endurance, the veteran astronaut dishes on what it takes to prepare for and live in space for that long. The upshot: Space is weird. And don't you want to know the details? Like, oh, I don't know, the fact that the International Space Station smells like jail? Yes. Yes you do.
Soonish by Kelly & Zach Weinersmith
Predicting the future is thankless and hard and often ill-advised—but that didn't stop scientist Kelly Weinersmith and cartoonist Zach Weinersmith from trying, with this wild glimpse into a future that may or may not involve space elevators and brain-computer interfaces and programmable matter. In it, they sift through mountains of literature and pick the brains of the researchers at the forefront of things like bioprinting (like 3-D printing, only more bio) and augmented reality (like reality, only more augmented), turning a skeptical yet exuberant eye toward the technologies of tomorrow.
Making Contact: Jill Tarter and the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence by Sarah Scoles
If humans ever find aliens—or if aliens ever find us—it will likely be a consequence of the work of Jill Tarter.  A former director of the SETI Institute, a formidable radio astronomer, and the inspiration for the main character in Carl Sagan's Contact, Tarter has devoted her life and work to the search for life in space. In Making Contact,  WIRED contributor Sarah Scoles interweaves Tarter's story with the science, philosophy, and politics that underpin the ongoing quest to understand life in the universe and humanity's place with in it—whether we're alone or not.
Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat by Samin Nosrat
A science-y cookbook? Yes. A science-y cookbook. Samin Nosrat’s ode to its eponymous components is light on recipes and heavy on insightful exposition vis-à-vis salt, fat, acid, and heat—the fundamental ingredients to any dish. By understanding how they act and interact, she claims, you can learn to not just follow instructions but truly cook, in that elusive, improvisational way you know you fantasize about. Outstanding illustrations, graphs, and charts from Wendy MacNaughton up the informational ante, without weighing down the culinary knowledge Nosrat dishes out.
Why Time Flies: A Mostly Scientific Investigation by Alan Burdick
Is there a more well-worn subject than time? I submit that there is not. It routinely ranks as the most commonly used noun in English. Aristotle ruminated at length on its subjectivity. And physicists, philosophers, and neuroscientists quibble over its qualities to this day. But in the hands of New Yorker staff writer Alan Burdick, the topic of time is revivified through this compelling mix of personal experiences and expertly translated research findings.
Spineless: The Science of Jellyfish and the Art of Growing a Backbone by Juli Berwald
Before she wrote for publications like National Geographic, Nature, and WIRED, Juli Berwald was an ocean scientist. But jellyfish—those gelatinous, pulsating, invertebrate aquatic creatures—drew her back to the sea. Jellyfish, it so happens, have experienced a population explosion in recent years, even as many other components of the oceans' ecosystems have floundered. In Spineless, Berwald sets out to understand why jellies have flourished, and what their unexpected response to a changing planet could mean for the rest of us.
The River of Consciousness by Oliver Sacks
The second of Oliver Sacks' posthumously published works (the first, Gratitude, comprised four essays the neurologist wrote following the cancer diagnosis that would end his life), The River of Consciousness collects 10 essays on subjects ranging from the fallibility of memory to Sigmund Freud's early studies on fish. Fans of the good doctor will appreciate the chance to revisit a collection he curated shortly before his death: The writings are stitched through with Sacks' characteristic curiosity and verve, weaving esoteric research, incisive observations, and intimate anecdotes into lucid expositions on the natural world and those who seek to understand it.
Big Chicken by Maryn McKenna
To understand modern agriculture, one must consider the chicken. In this wide-ranging exposé, journalist Maryn McKenna details how growth-boosting antibiotics plumped a little backyard bird into the fat fowl we know today. By tracing poultry's rise, the book reveals how the most popular meat in America cleared the way for industrial farming practices and a rapidly proliferating slate of drug-resistant diseases. Equal parts informative, propulsive, and frightening, McKenna's work is the kind of public health journalism you'll actually want to read.
Former NASA astronaut Scott Kelly uses the power of Twitter to answer some common questions about astronauts. How fast is the international space station? Can you see the eclipse from space?
Scott Kelly's book 'Endurance' is now available.


This Thanksgiving, you have a plan: You've signed up for a race. Nothing crazy, just a few miles, but what better way to offset the culinary onslaught of Turkey-day dinner than by torching a few calories first thing in the morning? That fourth slice of pumpkin pie isn't going to eat itself, dammit, and you're going to need somewhere to put it. So you're going to run a turkey trot.
You and everyone else in the country. "Thanksgiving is the most popular running day in the US," says Rich Harshbarger, CEO of the trade association Running USA. That's according to race results from Athlinks, the largest results database in the world (if you've completed a race since the turn of the millennium, there's probably a record of it on Athlinks, along with your official time, how you placed, and even what the weather was like on race day). And that popularity is only increasing: Last Thanksgiving, 961,882 people crossed a finish line at 726 local races across America—6 percent more than the previous year, and 18 percent more than the year before that.
In fact, more people run on Thanksgiving than any other day of the year, whether they're racing or not. Users of Strava, the social network for athletes, recorded nearly twice as many runs on Thanksgiving 2016 than the daily average. Imagine that: America's most gluttonous day of the year is also its most active.
Which, of course, is fine and good and admirable. Exercise is great. Exercising with friends and family is even better. "The whole sport of running has become more and more social and less and less solitary in recent years—and that's especially true of Turkey trots," Harshbarger says. "I mean, when else are you gonna get a million people in the United States active at one time?"
Inside the Weird World of Social Media Marathon Cheating
Do Nike's New Marathon Shoes Actually Make You Run Faster?
Fitness Isn't a Lifestyle Anymore. Sometimes It's a Cult
But if you think running in a local footrace is going to do much of anything to make up for your day of feasting, you should know that the math just isn't in your favor. The average woman burns about 126 calories per mile while running; the average man about 147. For a 5K (3.1-mile) race, that translates to 390 or 458 calories, respectively.
The average American consumes upwards of 4,500 calories on Thanksgiving. Forget 5Ks—that's about 1,000 calories more than the average person burns running a marathon. I'm not trying to dissuade you or anything. Some exercise is better than no exercise. But calorically speaking, counterbalancing your holiday gluttony with a spot of prophylactic jogging is like bailing out a boat with a teaspoon.
It's not all bad news, though. People do gain weight during the holidays, but not as much as you probably think. A 2000 study published in the New England Journal of Medicine found that test subjects gained an average of just 0.82 pounds between mid-November and early- to mid-January—yet those same test subjects thought they had gained four times as much weight as they actually had.
So no, your Turkey trot won't make up for the culinary crimes you are about to commit against your body. But the repercussions for those crimes are probably less severe than you think. So just enjoy your race—and the company of one million other happy trotters.
One of the world's finest distance runners came so close to achieving the greatest feats of athleticism in history: a sub two-hour marathon. To do it, the Eliud Kipchoge should have maintained an average pace of at least 13.1 miles per hour. So, we timed how long WIRED staffers could run at that speed. Needless to say, we didn't last long. Here's why only a handful of people in the world could ever come close to a two-hour marathon.


As I understand it, the whole point of cooking a turkey is to take it at some temperature and then increase it to a higher temperature. Sure, maybe there's something about family togetherness in there, but really, Thanksgiving is all about thermal transfer. The USDA recommends a minimum internal temperature of 165°F (74°C). I guess this is the minimum temperature to kill all the bad stuff in there—or maybe it is the lowest temperature that it can be and still taste great.
Either way, if you want to increase the temperature of the turkey you need to add energy. Perhaps this energy comes from fire, or an oven or even from hot oil—but it needs energy. But be careful. There is a difference between energy and temperature. Let me give you an example.
Suppose you put some leftover pizza in the oven to heat it up. Since you don't want to make a mess, you just rip off a sheet of aluminum foil and put the pizza on that and then into the oven. The oven is set to 350 degrees Fahrenheit so that after 10 minutes, both the pizza and the foil are probably close to that temperature.  Now for the demonstration. You can easily grab the aluminum foil without burning yourself, but you can't do the same to the pizza. Even though these two objects have the same temperature, they have different amounts of thermal energy.
The thermal energy in an object depends on the object's mass, the object's material and the object's temperature. The change in thermal energy for an object then depends on the change in temperature.
In this expression, m is the mass of the object and the variable c is the specific heat capacity. The specific heat capacity is a quantity that tells you how much energy it takes to one gram of the object by 1 degree Celsius. The specific heat capacity of water is 4.18 Joules per gram per degree Celsius. For copper, the specific heat capacity is 0.385 J/g/°C (yes, water has a very high specific heat capacity).
But what about turkey? What is the energy needed to heat up 1 gram of turkey by 1°C? That is the question I want to answer. Oh sure, I could probably just do a quick search online for this answer, but that's no fun. Instead I want to calculate this myself.
Thanksgiving Hack: Cook Your Turkey Sous Vide
Why It's So Tough to Keep Antibiotics Out of Your Turkey
Here's the Real Reason Thanksgiving Makes You Sleepy
Here is the basic experimental setup. I am going to take a turkey breast (because I am too impatient to use the whole turkey) and put it in a known amount of hot water. I will then record the change in temperature of the water and the change in temperature of the turkey. Of course, this will have to be in an insulated container such that all of the energy that leaves the water will go into the turkey.
With the change in temperature of the water, I can calculate (based on the known specific heat capacity of water) the energy lost. Assuming all this energy goes into the turkey, I will then know the increase in energy of the turkey. With the mass and change in turkey temperature, I will have the specific heat capacity of a turkey.
Just to be clear, I can set the changes in energy to be opposite from each other and then solve for the specific heat capacity of the turkey. Like this.
OK, it's experiment time. I am going to start with 2,000 mL (2 kilograms) of hot water and add it to a foam box with my turkey breast. I will monitor both the temperature of the water and the turkey. Oh, the turkey has a mass of 1.1 kilograms. Here's what this looks like (without the box lid).
I collected data for quite a while and I assumed that the water and the turkey would reach an equilibrium temperature—but I was wrong. Apparently it takes quite a significant amount of time for this turkey to heat up. Still, the data should be good enough for a calculation.
Hopefully it's clear that the red curve is the hot water and the blue is for the turkey. From this plot, the water had a change in temperature of -21.7°C and the turkey had +27°C. Putting these values along with the mass of the water and turkey, I get a turkey specific heat capacity of 6.018 J/g/°C. That's a little bit higher than what I was expecting—but at least it is in the ballpark of the value for water. But overall, I'm pretty happy.
But what can you do with the specific heat capacity for a turkey? What if you want to do a type of sous-vide cooking in which the turkey is placed in a vacuum-sealed bag and then added water at a particular temperature? Normally, the temperature of the water is kept at some constant temperature. But what if you want to start with hot water and cold turkey and then end up with perfect temperature turkey? In order to do this, you could calculate the starting mass and temperature of water that would give you the best ending turkey temperature. I will let you do this as a homework assignment.
Of course there is another way to cook a turkey. You could drop it from some great height such that it heats up when it lands. Oh, wait—I already did this calculation.
You finish that thanksgiving feast and immediately all you want to do is sleep. Many people blame the turkey for their sudden comatose state, but that may not be 100% true.


You don’t want to be among the first human cyborgs. Because doctors won’t be replacing all your limbs with super-strong robotic ones, and they won’t be giving you cameras for eyes. More than likely, they’ll be saving your life by wrapping your heart in a robot.
Today in the journal Science Robotics, researchers introduced a new kind of device to keep a heart pumping: It cradles the organ and uses a probe to anchor to the wall that separates the heart’s lower chambers. The robot can precisely manipulate a particular chamber, and that could lead to devices that let doctors assist a heart in its normal function instead of relying on a transplant. (Another sort of robotic heart announced earlier this year envelops the organ like a sleeve, but this new robot can work on a single diseased chamber.)
These days, doctors keep a heart pumping blood with something called a ventricular assist device. This is a pump external to the body that helps ferry blood around when the heart just can’t manage on its own. Problem is, because blood is flowing through machinery, the patient has to take blood thinners to make sure the works don’t get gummed up. And doctors don’t like putting people on blood thinners if they can avoid it.
This new robot is incorporated right into the heart, and acts to encourage the organ’s normal function. The bit that rests on the heart is a soft robot made of polymers, meaning it’s, well, soft, so it better conforms to the organ and doesn’t irritate the flesh. But it’s also soft in its operation: Instead of using traditional motors that are complicated and bulky, it’s pneumatically activated, which is a gentler way to manipulate the heart.
What Is a Robot?
This Robot Tractor Is Ready to Disrupt Construction
Inside SynTouch, the Mad Lab Giving Robots the Power to Feel
The second bit of the robot is a rod that actually enters the heart and anchors to the wall that separates one ventricle from the other, known as a septum. A needle pierces the septum and a delivery shaft opens up an anchor on the other side of the wall like an umbrella. Then an operator places a disk on the other side to complete the anchor.
So in addition to the soft robot on the outside pumping the free wall of the ventricle, the shaft pulls the septum toward the wall, squeezing the ventricle to get blood flowing. Without pulling on the septum, the device wouldn’t really be replicating the beating of a heart. “The septum is very actively engaged in the ventricular contraction,” says study coauthor Nikolay Vasilyev, a scientist in the Department of Cardiac Surgery at Boston Children's Hospital. “When the heart contracts, it's not only the free walls that move. The septum thickens during the contraction and moves inward into the respective ventricle.”
By manipulating both the outside of the organ with a soft robot and tugging on the septum with a rod, this device helps the heart pump blood much more precisely than other devices: The system reads either the electrical signals from the heart or pressure changes within the ventricle to time its movements in concert with the normal operation of the organ.
The researchers have already shown the robot working in a live pig. The next step could be to actually implant the thing in an animal and stitch it up, then watch the robot work over the course of months.
“In terms of technological development, I believe we are almost at the stage where a large company or a pool of investors take this technology to the next level and make a product out of it,” says University of Leeds roboticist Pietro Valdastri, who was not involved in the study. “I frankly hope this is going to happen, as this technology looks pretty ready to me for this type of jump.”
Robots have already stolen our hearts. Now they're keeping them beating, too.
A robotic heart points the way to a future where soft robots help us heal.


This story originally appeared on CityLab and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
When Hurricane Irma sprinted toward Miami-Dade County, Jeff Ransom couldn’t sleep. He wasn’t just worried about gusts shattering windows, or sheets of rain drowning the highway—that’s far from unusual near his home in Broward County, where extreme weather verges on routine, and patches of U.S. 1 are regularly submerged.
Ransom, the county archaeologist, was preoccupied with an oak tree and its 350-year-old roots. If the tree capsized with enough intensity, he worried, the flailing roots could dislodge human remains.
On a blazing blue morning in early November, weeks after the storm, we trek to the site of the Tequesta Native American burial mound that kept Ransom awake.
“All night long, I was just thinking about that oak tree flipping over,” he says. “The big roots are growing right into the burial mound. That would’ve just blown human bone everywhere.”
Irma’s winds shaved canopies off the trees at the Deering Estate, a historic homestead that contains the burial mound and other fossil sites and is managed by the Miami-Dade County department of Parks, Recreation and Open Space. Under those bald branches, growth was rapid as vines and chutes—nourished by seaweed deposits—scrambled for sunlight. The result has been a second spring: bright, young leaves, greedy for purchase among the gumbo-limbo and strangler figs. Ransom knocks a path for us with a machete, which he carries slung in a holster. Two thwacks splinter the Brazilian pepper branches—but that’s only because the machete is dull, he tells me. Usually, a single smack is enough to slice straight through, like butter.
Ransom is 52, with a GI Joe jawbone and black aviator sunglasses. At one point, these vanish into the carpet of leaf litter, gone shaggier since the storm, and Ransom spends a few minutes poking around for them beneath the slashed fronds before remembering that he has a nearly identical backup pair.
The burial ground was—is—fine. The oak’s trunk is sturdy and thick; the roots are sunk deep into the soil. We sit for a moment on benches nearby, guzzling water in the shade while Ransom uses his machete’s blunted edge to scrape burrs off his pants and shoes.
The storm didn’t bear down on the city with all its might: In general, Southeast Florida was spared the breadth of damage that forecasters had conjured. A half-mile of mangroves buffered the Cutler Midden, another archeological site on the Deering Estate, against damage wrought by crashing waves. Ancient shell tools and pottery fragments survived intact.
Irma could have bitten harder. But in isolated pockets, the storm was ravenous. We pass fragments of a historic boardwalk, which the archaeologists had laboriously documented and annotated. The structure “had been chunked up” in the storm, explains Mallory Fenn, the public archaeology coordinator at the Southeast/Southwest Florida branch of the Florida Public Archaeology Network. The network is a project of the University of West Florida; the Southeast/Southwest division operates out of Florida Atlantic University.
Fenn’s earrings are made from gator teeth, and the boardwalk looks masticated and spit out, its component parts hardly visible. An orange-and-white barrier marches across the crumpled walkway, as if it wasn’t patently clear that there’s trouble ahead.
Before I fly down to Miami to trail her and Ransom through the swamp, Sara Ayers-Rigsby sends me a packing list. Ayers-Rigsby is the Southeast/Southwest regional director of FPAN, and the trunk of her car is stocked with supplies, from bug netting to single-serving bags of pretzels. She’ll have ample bug spray and sunscreen to share, she writes, but I’ll want to wear long sleeves on my arms and legs, and the most waterproof boots I’ve got. We’ll be wading into the height of the king tides; the water might rise up to our knees. Heat and mugginess can have a scrambling effect. Ayers-Rigsby later describes it as “brain-meltingly hot.”
“The weather in south Florida is inhospitable,” she warns.
Writ broadly, that’s precisely the problem. Numerous projections forecast a future of extreme weather and persistent flooding that is incompatible with many elements of life as it’s known on the peninsula. Of all of the U.S. states, Florida is the most vulnerable to sea-level rise, and Miami-Dade is at particular risk.
As the plane drifts toward descent, water is everywhere: in green-blue pools that reach for the horizon, in mud-colored eddies, in staid intercoastals studded with white yachts. From the air, many of these basins look overfull, ready to spill with the slightest topoff.
Sooner or later, the water will swallow the shoreline. When it comes to the magnitude, severity, and timetable, there are shades and gradations of apocalyptic hues. In 2015, a working group comprised of officials from across Southeast Florida set out to get on the same page about the threats and to strategize about mitigation efforts. Their projection draws from local tide measurements and is aligned with estimates from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). By 2030, they anticipate a sea-level rise of 6 to 10 inches from a 1992 baseline; they predict a rise of up to 26 inches by 2060, and 61 inches by 2100.
Even if the water doesn’t crawl quite that high, damage could still be widespread and devastating. Twenty-five percent of land in Miami-Dade County sits less than three feet above current sea level, according to the World Resources Institute. Ten percent is less than a foot away from being flush with the sea.
And if water does splash to the maximum level, the results could be cataclysmic. In a recent report, the real estate company Zillow estimated that, if the sea level were to rise by six feet, 24 percent of Miami’s housing stock would be drenched.
“You can’t wrap an archeological site in bubble wrap and put it on a high shelf.”
Troublingly for Ransom and Ayers-Rigsby, a sea-level rise of just half that height could destroy as many as 16,095 archaeological sites across the state. As the terrain goes soggier or washes away, how do you protect objects embedded in it?
“You can’t wrap an archeological site in bubble wrap and put it on a high shelf,” Ayers-Rigsby told me via phone soon before Irma swept past. Some sites can be stabilized or buffered with mangroves or oyster beds, but when it comes to safeguarding them from pummeling rain or surging waves of a hurricane-strength storm, options are limited. “Other than building a massive construction around it,” Ayers-Rigsby said, “there’s not that much you can do.”
Among officials in Miami-Dade, “there’s no sugar coating or backtracking” about the threat of climate change, Ransom tells me. Its consequences play out in real time, in flooded streets and waterlogged basements, and voters throw their weight behind mitigation efforts at the polls. After his landslide victory in this month’s elections, the incoming City of Miami Mayor Francis Suarez told the local ABC affiliate that “Miami should be and must be the most resilient city in the world.” That same day, voters approved a bond measure that directed $192 million to pumps, walls, drains, and other projects to keep the city drier. Meanwhile, Ransom, Ayers-Rigsby, and their colleagues work to keep thousands of years of history from being lost to the sea.
If you wonder what archaeology Florida can boast of, you’d hardly be the first. In a carpool from the airport, I told two Australian businessmen what had brought me to the city. They cocked their heads. Miami, to them, evoked beaches, surgically altered bodies, and hefty Cuban sandwiches. What else was there?
I recount this to Ayers-Rigsby while we sit on a choked concrete freeway, inching from Fort Lauderdale to Biscayne Bay. She groans and slumps her head toward the steering wheel. Ayers-Rigsby, 34, relocated to Florida from the Mid-Atlantic, and is now somewhat evangelical about the region’s overlooked merits. Around her neck, she wears a pendant with the state’s silhouette.
For as long as people and creatures have inhabited present-day Florida, they’ve been shedding traces of their lives. Fenn says the flitting snowbirds and rotating crop of transplants can be afflicted with a virulent case of historical amnesia. But the scattered sites testify to millennia before the shores were dotted with high-rises fashioned from glass and steel.
The Cutler Fossil is a watering hole into which all manner of Pleistocene beasts toppled. Sandwiched between the limestone layers of the sinkhole, some 16 feet above the current sea level of the nearby Biscayne Bay, were bones of dire wolfs, mastodons, camels, llamas, saber-toothed tigers, and the American lion. Though the site is protected, the city has sprawled around it in the intervening 10,000 years. Looking down into the ancient pit from the ridge, you can hear the rumble of nearby cars. But the site is hidden and sheltered from the road and the water, protected by its isolation and its elevation.
Other sites sit more uneasily with the present. In the late 1990s, archaeologists discovered a circle of post holes cut into the limestone bedrock at the mouth of the Miami River. Carbon dating of wood fragments helped identify the site as the home of a structure built nearly 2,000 years ago by the Tequesta Indians. “People have been partying in Miami for thousands of years,” Fenn jokes, as she shows me around the site. Archaeologists, Native activists, and a galvanized public sparred with a developer, who had purchased the property as the future site of luxury condos. (A flurry of controversy swirled at the time, when some scholars wondered whether the pattern was, more simply, the drain site for a septic system. Archaeology magazine solicited input from other archaeologists, scholars, and a master septic tank contractor, the latter of whom summarily dismissed the possibility.)
The Miami Circle was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2009. Today, the site is a grassy expanse shaded by towering condos and hotels that have sprung up around it, overlooking cruise ships and cargo freight lumbering in the distance. It’s a rare green space in a vertiginous corner of the city—and that means it sometimes becomes a place for dogs to lift their legs. A fluffy white dog squats nearby as Fenn describes working on an archaeological site just across the narrow river, where archaeologists unearthed additional Tequesta artifacts in 2014 in the prospective footprint of a massive mixed-use development. These excavations are a trippy mash-up of the ancient and the dizzyingly modern. “When you look down, you think it’s the 1850s, with a sifter and a trowel,” she says. “Then you look up and see skyscrapers, and the Metromover going by.”
During Irma, water breached the walls just below the Miami Circle site. It rushed onto the grass, carrying palm fronds washed in from the river. Fenn, who lives nearby, “ran out pretty much the second we were allowed to be outside” to check in on it. The water soon receded, leaving no apparent damage. This particular spot, loaded with infill, has been shored up to withstand exactly this type of barrage.
Other sites, which lack these preventive measures, are more vulnerable. But studying them can reveal important data about the rising sea—and how long scholars have to hatch a plan.
Ransom and Ayers-Rigsby pick through a dense thicket and a floor carpeted with spiky bromeliads. They know what they’re looking for—orange-capped rebar that they sunk into the bank of the Oleta River—but Irma blew down the trees onto which they’d tied yellow ribbon to help them identify the sites at a distance. Those orange markers have been coated with dirt.
This squishy portion of the riverbank is the site of a prehistoric midden, containing traces of shell tools, pottery, and other daily items that would have been used by Native American tribes who lived on the shore.
“If any site is going to erode, it’s going to be this one,” Ransom says, sloshing through the muck.
The midden, or ancient trash heap, is nearly flush with the water level, which makes this site an ideal candidate for tracking inundation and water rise before and after storm events and king tides. By obtaining a baseline measurement and a set of comparisons, the archaeologists can document both accumulation and erosion—noting which events seem to pile more sediment on the top of the site, and which strip it, ultimately threatening to haul the artifacts out to sea.
The notion of using this area as a proxy for fluctuations in the water level dates back decades. In the late 1970s and early ‘80s, when he was working as the country archeologist, Robert Carr found evidence of ancient charcoal buried about two feet below the surface. Since a fire needs to be dry, Carr reasoned that that portion of the site was once above water. At the time, climate change “certainly wasn’t on anybody’s radar” in the archaeology community, he tells me via phone. There was “no particular movement or focus going on.” Carr advocated for using soil inundation, radiocarbon dating, and water levels as firm evidence for past and future variations. His work laid the foundation for what Ransom and Ayers-Rigby are doing.
On a recent afternoon, the mangrove roots are flecked with odd pieces of very modern garbage: foggy glass bottles, a boogie board speckled with barnacles, a black DVD case, a wrinkled bag of Ruffles chips. These aren’t the signs of someone sneaking in to use the forest as a dump, Ayers-Rigsby says—the refuse has been carried in on waves.
She and Ransom slog through the sucking mud, brushing biting ants from their backs and shoulders, to measure the distance from the rebar to the water line. They jot down the measurements in a yellow notebook, its pages warped by wetness. In some spots, the sediment is piled higher than it was the last time they measured, before Irma blew in. That accumulation suggests that the water level breached a good chunk of the shoreline during the storm, Ransom says.
Carr explains that’s not unequivocally dangerous—there’s not yet sufficient clarity about whether inundation is an impediment to preserving sites in the same way that erosion is. Conceivably, he says, a site “could be better preserved underwater than it is above ground, if sea-level rise is gradual, not a result of pounding waves hitting shoreline and tearing up and removing soils.”
Through her work at FPAN, Ayers-Rigsby has also helped recruit a team of citizen scientists to fan out across the state and conduct regular monitoring of at-risk sites. Inspired by a U.K. program, Scotland’s Coastal Heritage at Risk, the Heritage Monitoring Scouts, a brigade more than 200 people strong, survey publicly accessible sites—not the more sensitive ones, like unmarked burial grounds—and upload their impressions onto a website form. They look out for signs of flooding, erosion, or wave action, or any artifacts that may have been dredged to the surface, and flag any places that need urgent attention.
Sixty-two-year-old volunteer Paula Streeter surveys the shell midden on Calusa Island, a dot of land off the state’s southwest coast once inhabited by Calusa Indians. Streeter has a wide-ranging background—her resume includes “a zillion, million, trillion things,” she tells me via phone. Since retiring from the city clerk’s office, she’s begun assisting archaeologists. “I only started this,” she says via phone. “It was the most amazing thing in my life, and it only happened two years ago.”
Already, the Calusa shoreline is being eaten by waves and wind action, Streeter says. Artifacts are surfacing in the midden, relics of the tribe’s use of shells for tools and weapons—but the average beachgoer might not notice them. “If you’ve been trained, you know that’s an ancient form of a hammer made from a whelk shell or a horse conch,” Streeter says.
The Calusa Island site is only accessible via boat or kayak—“you can’t just zip out there,” Streeter says. Before the recent hurricanes and king tides, the team intended to survey once a month. (The site is also monitored by researchers from the University of Florida.) When toppled trees exposed these artifacts, the team upped the frequency to once per week—and instead of leaving all of the artifacts in situ, the volunteers diagram the original locations and bag some of them, so they’re not tugged out to sea. Heritage Monitoring Scouts use rebar installations to measure the distance from the midden edge to the beach. Even without their precise computations, it’s easy to see the effect of the waves and wind in exposed roots and a dramatically angled ledge of sand.
Some of these sites contain clues to enriching or correcting the historical record. One example is the dwindling island of Egmont Key, off of the Tampa coast.
A few years ago, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers reached out to the Seminole to ask about the dwindling island. It was eroding heavily—shrunk to 280 acres, half its size—and they were wondering whether to replenish it with sand. Was the tribe interested in preserving it?
“This history is a hidden history—it’s not one that’s in any of the textbooks.”
The imminent threat to the land mass was the impetus to uncover the site’s history. With his colleagues, Dr. Paul Backhouse, the director of the Ah-Tah-Thi-Ki Museum and Tribal Historic Preservation Officer for the Seminole Tribe of Florida, pursued some research and learned that, during skirmishes with the U.S. Army in the mid-1800s, the island functioned as a detainment site for Seminoles who were caught evading the ships deployed to remove them out west. Judging by contemporary accounts, conditions were grim: There were no sources of fresh water, and the captives were trapped.
The island sits no more than six feet above sea level. Did the tribe want to keep it above the waves? Among the Seminole community, “the overwhelming response was yes,” Backhouse says via phone. Archaeologically, there was much to learn from the site and the 19th-century artifacts that accumulated there—but it could also function as a place of catharsis and education. “Youth can come and remember the struggle their ancestors went through to remain in Florida,” Backhouse says. “This history is a hidden history—it’s not one that’s in any of the textbooks, because it’s an embarrassment to normal American history.”
Egmont Key is on the front lines. With enough elevation or distance from foot traffic, many other sites will be safe for a relatively long time, by virtue of staying dry or hidden. But as the sea creeps higher, choices will have to be made.
This fall has been an expensive one at the Deering Estate. Hurricane Irma and the October king tides packed a double-punch, explains Jennifer Tisthammer, the estate’s director.
During that first king tide, storm surge swamped the service road with ankle-deep water and flooded the back lawn, where many of the estate’s special events take place. Irma’s gales ripped off 80 percent of the tree canopy; 6,000 cubic yards of seaweed washed ashore. Tisthammer’s long-term vision is to raise the back lawn—but in the meantime, the staff looked for prophylactic measures to mitigate the aesthetics and promote drainage. Sod is best, Tisthammer says, but white rock looks better than soggy, brown grass. When the staff spread out truckloads of drain rock and sand, the puddles that had been taking weeks to drain were siphoned off within a few days.
Even if the fully-underwater-future is far off on the horizon, the king tides offer a regular reminder—and a kind of trial run. On a page devoted to king tides and climate change, the Environmental Protection Agency notes, “Sea level rise will make today’s king tides become the future’s everyday tides.”
Places like the Deering Estate are already factoring preventative and adaptive strategies into line items on the budget. “You’re gonna have some loss,” Tisthammer says. “Do you put $3 million into something you know will eventually go under, or allocate it differently?”
The kind of data that Ayers-Rigsby and Ransom are collecting can be used to inform broader city planning and budgeting—and this December, Miami-Dade and three surrounding counties are taking archeological sites into account, adding provisions to the updated action plan from the Southeast Florida Regional Climate Change Compact. The document isn’t binding, but it encourages local officials to work with historic preservation specialists to map and rank at-risk sites; to appeal to FEMA, local emergency management offices, and other agencies for financial resources; and to implement sustainable preservation tactics such as planting mangroves and cordgrass, or “hard armoring” sites with rocks or concrete. These strategies aren’t without drawbacks. “Hard methods may negatively impact sites by the weight and shifting of large rocks, not to mention the cost of acquiring and moving these to remote places,” Ransom says.
The solution is also not as simple as plucking artifacts from the ground and shuttling them to museum collections, where they might be preserved behind plexiglass vitrines. For the Seminole tribe, as for many other indigenous groups, Backhouse says the prevailing philosophy is that items discarded over the centuries should be left in place. He acknowledges that this mantra of noting objects, “working around them, planning around them, and not thinking of those objects as just research vehicles” might “go completely against the grain of what most people think archaeology is.” But Ayers-Rigsby and Ransom likewise consider excavation to be something of a last resort.
In the Seminole culture, Backhouse says, there’s a difference between something being upturned by an earthquake, versus pulled to the surface by human hands. The underlying philosophy is seeking harmony and balance with nature, he says—and “indigenous cultures don’t have an idea that nature’s always nice.”
The Crowdsourced Maps Guiding Puerto Rico's Recovery
The World's Soaring CO2 Levels Visualized as Skyscrapers
See How Human Activity Is Changing Animal Migration Patterns
Last spring, my colleague Linda Poon reported that the vast majority of states lacked any mention of historic resources in their disaster management plans. Up until this point, that’s been the case in Miami-Dade, says Ayers-Rigsby. “One of the reasons I was so happy we had some language put into the draft of the climate action fund was just to get it on people’s radar,” she adds. “Before, it was not even included at all at any level.” There’s momentum in this direction: Earlier this fall, the city of Annapolis, Maryland, hosted a conference called “Keeping History Above Water,” dedicated to solutions for historic preservation and cultural resources. In August, Backhouse and the Seminole tribe participated in the Tidally United Summit, co-sponsored with FPAN and the Florida International University Global Indigenous Forum, which focused on the relationship between climate science and historic resources.
Meanwhile, Ayers-Rigsby is sensitive to the emergent, unfolding toll that storms and flooding can wreak on people and property. “You have to put the human aspect in the present first,” she says. “You have to prioritize people’s safety and people’s livelihoods. Archaeology and historic resources are obviously necessarily secondary to that, but they should still be discussed.”
It’s painful enough to put a pricetag on property—homes, cars, neighborhoods—that we will lose in the reckoning with the waves. And it can be an uphill battle to nudge residents and officials toward the level of abstraction required to dwell in the realm of forecasts and best guesses. “A risk in the future feels a lot less scary than a risk that’s presented right now,” the risk-perception expert David Ropeik told my colleague Laura Bliss in 2015. Even in Florida, where volatile weather is undeniable, it requires a few metal acrobatics to tumble toward an understanding of the sites that are at stake—sometimes literally below the surface.
But if the goal of archaeology is to preserve and interpret the past for the future, there’s plenty of work to be done—careful and quick, down in the muck and in legislative offices—before traces of that past slip away. In those strata are testaments to lives lived, forgotten, and remembered over the course of millennia: a record of what it has meant to be human.
No matter what they do, Ayers-Rigsby says, the time capsule will be incomplete. “Some things will be lost forever.”
Seawall-topping king tides occur when extra-high tides line up with other meteorological anomalies. In the past they were a novelty or a nuisance. Now they hint at the new normal, when sea level rise will render current coastlines obsolete.


On the last Monday of September, 32 field workers stepped onto a 15-acre experimental plot in an undisclosed part of Washington and made apple harvest history. The fruits they plucked from each tree were only a few months old. But they were two decades and millions of dollars in the making. And when they landed, pre-sliced and bagged on grocery store shelves earlier this month, they became the first genetically modified apple to go on sale in the United States.
The Arctic Apple, as it’s known, is strategically missing an enzyme so it doesn’t go brown when you take a bite and leave it sitting out on the counter. It’s one of the first foods engineered to appeal directly to the senses, rather than a farmer’s bottom line. And in a bid to attract consumers, it’s unapologetic about its alterations.
The apple has courted plenty of controversy to get where it is today—in about a hundred small supermarkets clustered around Oklahoma City. But now that it’s here, the question is, will consumers bite? Dozens of biotech companies with similar products in the pipeline, from small startups to agrochemical colossuses like Monsanto and Dupont are watching, eager to find out if the Arctic Apple will be a bellwether for the next generation of GMOs, or just another science project skewered on the altar of public opinion.
Neal Carter bought his first apple orchard in 1995, up in the gently sloping valley of Summerland, British Columbia. When he started, the future president of Okanagan Specialty Fruits didn’t have grand plans for upending the industry. But in his first few seasons he was struck by just how many apples (and how much money) he had to throw away on account of browning from the routine bumps and jostles of transit and packaging. Most years it was around 40 percent of his crop.
When you cut an apple, or handle it roughly, its cells rupture, and compounds that had been neatly compartmentalized come in contact with each other. When that happens, an enzyme called polyphenol oxidase, or PPO, triggers a chemical reaction that produces brown-colored melanin within just a few minutes. Carter thought there had to be a way to breed or engineer around that. So when he came across Australian researchers already doing it in potatoes, he wasted no time in licensing their technology, a technique known as gene silencing. Rather than knocking out a gene, the idea is to hijack the RNA instructions it sends out to make a protein.
The problem, Carter found out later, was that apples were a lot more complicated, genetically speaking, than the potato. In taters, the browning enzyme was coded into a family of four sub-genes that were chemically very similar. All you had to do was silence the dominant one, and it would cross-react with the other three, taking them all down in one go. Apples, on the other hand, had four families of PPO genes, none of which reacted with the others. So Carter’s team had to design a system to target all of them at once—no simple task in the early aughts.
To do it, the Okanagan scientists inserted a four-sequence apple gene (one for each member of the apple PPO family) whose base pairs run in reverse orientation to the native copies. To make sure it got expressed, they also attached some promoter regions taken from a cauliflower virus. The transgene’s RNA binds to the natural PPO-coding RNA, and the double-stranded sequence is read as a mistake and destroyed by the cell’s surveillance system. The result is a 90 percent reduction in the PPO enzyme. And without it, the apples don’t go brown.
It took Okanagan years to perfect the technique, which was subject to regulatory scrutiny on account of the viral DNA needed to make it work. Today, with the arrival of gene editing technologies like Crispr/Cas9, turning genes on and off or adding new ones has become much more straightforward. Del Monte is already growing pink pineapples, Monsanto and Pioneer are working on antioxidant-boosted tomatoes and sweeter melons, J.R. Simplot has a potato that doesn’t produce cancer-causing chemicals when it’s fried. Smaller startups are busy engineering all kinds of other designer fruits and veggies. And it’s not obvious how exactly this new wave of gene-edited foods will be regulated.
Gene editing gets around most of the existing laws that give the Food and Drug Administration and the Department of Agriculture authority over biotech food crops. In January, the Obama administration proposed a rule change that would look more closely at gene-edited crops before automatically approving them. But earlier this month the USDA withdrew that proposed rule, citing science and biotech industry concerns that it would unnecessarily hinder research and development.
Carter, whose fruits were cleared by the USDA and the FDA in 2015, says his Arctic Apples are evidence the existing process works. But there were times when he wasn’t sure they were going to make it. “It took us close to 10 years, where we had the apples, we had the data, we kept submitting answers to questions, and then wouldn’t hear anything back,” says Carter. “It’s a bit of a black hole, and that whole time you’re not sure if you’re going to even be able to pay your electricity bills and keep your lights on.”
QR Codes for GMO Labeling Could Actually Be a Great Idea. Could
Organic GMOs Could Be The Future of Food — If We Let Them
In a First, the FDA Clears Genetically Modified Salmon for Eating—It Just Took 20 Years
Talking to Carter, Okanagan still feels like a small family business, especially when he says the word “process” with that endearing, long Canadian “O”. This year’s Arctic Apple harvest amounted to 175,000 pounds—just a drop in the apple bucket. But shortly after its US regulatory approvals, his company was acquired by Intrexon Corporation, a multinational synthetic biology conglomerate that owns all the other big-name GMOs you might have heard of. Like Oxitec’s Zika-fighting mosquitoes, and the fast-growing AquAdvantage salmon.
That’s one reason customers might be wary of the Arctic Apple. Another is transparency. While Carter says they’re taking that literally—the bags have a plastic see-through window to view the not-brown slices for yourself—others say Okanagan hasn’t gone far enough in telling people how its apple was made. The letters G-M-O don’t appear anywhere on the bag. Instead, in accordance with a 2016 GMO food labeling law, there’s a QR code, which you can scan with a smartphone to get more information online.
Some consumer groups think that doesn’t go far enough, but scientists counter that they’re focusing on the wrong things. “Breeding technologies are just a distraction from the big questions,” says Pam Ronald, who studies plant genetics at the University of California and who is married to an organic farmer. “Like, how do we produce enough food without using up all our soil and water? How do we reduce toxic inputs? Those are the grand challenges of agriculture today, that technology can help address.”
Ronald works on food crops designed to fight food insecurity in the developing world—like drought-resistant corn and vitamin-enriched rice. When she first heard of the Arctic Apple at a conference in 2015, she wasn’t that impressed. It’s not exactly a famine-fighter. But when Carter sent her a box of fruits a few weeks later, her kids had a different take. They brought them into school to show to their biology classes, and according to Ronald, their classmates just went wild. “Kids really hate brown apples, and it made me realize I don’t really like them either,” she says.
Living where food is abundant, most people don’t really grasp how GMOs touch their lives. “It’s that distance that consumers are removed from agriculture that creates the fear,” says Ronald. “But if you see a brown apple you’re probably aware that you throw it away, and maybe you feel guilty about that. Connecting biotechnology to something you can see and feel and taste like that could be transformational.”
When hosting a party where genetically modified foods are what’s for dinner, is it proper etiquette to warn your GMO-averse friends ahead of time? Mr. Know-It-All offers sage advice on how to handle.


David Pitman is a third-generation poultry grower, raising chickens and turkeys with his brother and parents on a property east of Fresno that his grandfather founded in 1954. They’re independent farmers—instead of raising birds for a corporation, they sell directly to wholesalers and stores—and their farming style reflects that freedom. They buy turkeys from a variety of breeds, feed them organic grains, and let them wander over pasture, choices that make the final product very different from the broad-breasted birds raised at industrial scale by national meatpacking companies.
In one way, though, both products are more alike than they are different. The Pitmans have always raised their birds without putting antibiotics in their feed. Now the rest of the turkeys—and chickens and cattle and pigs—raised in the United States are moving that way thanks to federal regulations that went into effect on January 1, 2017.
The turkeys that will appear on tables across the country this week were hatched after those rules became final, which makes this, aspirationally at least, the first antibiotic-free Thanksgiving. But farmers such as Pitman who have done without the drugs for years say that, as desirable as that may be—for animals, and also for people threatened by the antibiotic-resistant bacteria that result—it’s harder than it looks.
The movement to raise meat without routine antibiotics was started three years ago by Perdue Farms, the fourth-largest chicken company in the United States. Other poultry companies followed, making “no antibiotics ever” chicken commonplace now. But “turkeys are much more difficult, probably 10 times more difficult, to raise antibiotic-free than chickens are,” Pittman says. “Any little thing throws them off.”
Maybe a little background is in order. Antibiotics came on the market in the 1940s, and before that decade was over, farmers had begun adding low doses of the drugs to animal feed, first to make livestock put on weight faster and then to protect them from diseases as growers packed more animals onto farms.
Even though antibiotics were new, scientists already realized that drug resistance could develop. Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of penicillin, warned when he received the Nobel Prize in 1945 that bacteria might evolve defenses that would protect them against antibiotics’ killing effect. But the doses being used in livestock were so small—10 grams of drug per ton of feed for growth promotion in the early days, nowhere near enough to cure an infection—that no one expected resistance to be a problem.
That turned out to be a bad guess. By the 1950s, doctors and microbiologists were identifying drug-resistant foodborne infections such as Salmonella and E. coli in people. The link, they realized, was livestock’s gut bacteria. When the animals ate the antibiotics, some gut bacteria acquired resistance, and others with pre-existing protections survived and reproduced. And when those animals were slaughtered, the resistant bugs contaminated their meat.
To prevent outbreaks, the Food and Drug Administration tried in 1977 to yank the licenses it had given drug companies to sell antibiotics to farmers, but Congress interfered. That started a stalemate that lasted for decades—until, in late 2013, the Obama administration put up a new set of rules.
The rules made the weight-gain doses, called growth promoters, functionally illegal in the US. The agency didn’t ban doses to prevent disease, but it put them under the control of veterinarians. The FDA argued that veterinarians could be trusted to test animals for disease, to choose the right drug for whatever was going on, and to use the drugs for the shortest possible amount of time—all precautions that were supposed to reduce the risk of resistance.
The new rules are porous, though. About a third of livestock antibiotics don’t have limitations on how long they can be used, which means they could promote resistance. And federal data isn’t granular enough to prove that meat producers are complying.
Companies’ marketing makes it look as though they are following the new rules. Tyson announced last year that it is launching a line of pork raised without routine antibiotic use. Cargill took growth promoters out of its turkey in 2014 following Perdue’s announcement, and created a new label for turkeys raised without preventive antibiotics; Butterball did the same this year. Hormel Foods acquired the no-antibiotics-ever processed-meat company Applegate, and conducted what it calls a “raised-without-antibiotics pilot study” for its main turkey line, Jennie-O.
“What I am seeing—and this is based primarily on my work on the poultry industry but with knowledge of other commodities—is that the implementation of (the FDA rules) have had a very positive impact on antimicrobial stewardship,” says Randall Singer, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Minnesota College of Veterinary Medicine who is conducting a multi-year study of poultry industry antibiotic use.
But chicken’s rapid move away from antibiotics may have raised expectations unfairly high, he adds. “A tom turkey may have a lifespan of 18 to 20 weeks. Broiler chickens get killed at six, maybe eight,” he says. “When you put an animal out that long, the chances of disease increase.”
And that’s what turkey producers are struggling with: not foregoing no-longer-legal growth promoters, but deciding how much to dial back on the legal preventive use that still may foster resistant bacteria. Still others are figuring out whether they can go completely antibiotic-free.
In the northwest corner of Iowa, the proprietors of Moline Brothers Farms are weighing those risks. Brad and Grant Moline and their father John, who raise turkeys for the farmer-owned West Liberty Foods cooperative, had to euthanize all 56,000 birds on their property when avian influenza swept through the Midwest in 2015. It was the largest animal-disease outbreak ever recorded in the United States, and killed or forced farmers to destroy more than 7 million turkeys (and 43 million laying hens).
How to Deep-Fry a Turkey Without Killing Yourself
What's Up With That: The Real Causes of the Thanksgiving Sleepies
How Many Batteries Would It Take to Cook a Turkey?
Antibiotic use isn’t directly connected to avian influenza—antibiotics don’t work against the virus. But the sense that an outbreak could sweep up out of nowhere leaves turkey producers cautious about renouncing the drugs for good.
“On our farm, we are making steps each and every flock to put less and less antibiotics in our birds,” Brad Moline told me. “We know consumers want it. We know we need to go in that direction for food safety and for the fact we want antibiotics to work down the road, for future generations. We can see the writing on the wall.”
West Liberty has offered its farmers a certification program that would allow them to market their birds as fully antibiotic-free. But the Molines held back, wanting to preserve the option of trying to cure a disease if one ever surfaces again. “We took such a big hit with bird flu, we weren’t ready to take that risk all at once,” Moline says.
Still, new practices—water-purification systems and air-quality monitors—have brought them closer to being antibiotic-free. “We have had a couple flocks that would have qualified as ABF or almost,” he says, “where in maybe one out of our four barns, we might have a hiccup of disease that needs some treatment.”
All of this makes reading the labels on your Thanksgiving turkey more complicated than it might seem. Label claims—“no antibiotics ever,” “raised without antibiotics,” “no growth-promoting antibiotics”—attest to what producers are doing now. But they’re also markers of an industry in transition—and signposts for where it wants to go.
You finish that thanksgiving feast and immediately all you want to do is sleep. Many people blame the turkey for their sudden comatose state, but that may not be 100% true.


Tesla just keeps making cool things. On the top of the list is its newest addition to the lineup, an all-electric semitruck. Oh, that might sound like a dumb idea—but I don't think so. Just consider how much stuff is shipped back and forth across the country. Clearly a train would be more efficient, but trucks also play a large role. It seems like the Tesla semi might be able to make two improvements over a traditional truck. First, the electric truck will clearly reduce emissions (depending on the energy source to charge these things). Second, with more onboard automation it is likely these semis will be significantly safer than their diesel counterparts.
But what if the Tesla semi also had solar panels? Elon Musk already has a whole company devoted to solar energy—why not just combine and conquer? Tesla and SolarCity are already teaming up to make solar panels, home batteries, and electric cars a unified energy system. Wouldn't slapping some solar panels on top of this truck's surface area make the thing more efficient? You can only learn by trying—so I'm going to estimate the effect of solar panels on the roof of the trailer.
How much power and how much energy (those are two different things) could you get from solar panels on the trailer? First, I guess I should point out the difference between power and energy. Power is the rate that you would get energy from the sun. At the surface of the Earth, the light from the sun produces about 1,000 Watts per square meter. In terms of energy, this is 1,000 Joules every second (assuming the panels are 100 percent efficient—which they're not).
The average power a solar panel produces depends on several things. Bigger solar panels provide greater power (that seems obvious). But it also depends on the efficiency and the angle at which the sunlight hits the panel. The best panels [available today are around 20 percent efficient](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_panel, and they work best when the light hits perpendicular to the panel.
Meet the Tesla Semitruck, Elon Musk's Most Electrifying Gamble Yet
What Does Tesla's Automated Truck Mean for Truckers?
Tesla's Electric Truck Is Coming—And So Are Everyone Else's
Using those assumptions, let's get some values to estimate power for a solar semi.
First, I need to estimate the size. I'm going to say that the solar panel covers the entire top of a standard semi trailer. Since there are apparently different standard sizes of trailers, I am going to say this one is 2.6 meters wides and 15 meters long for a total area of 39 square meters. Second, I need both the time and average incident angle for the sunlight. I am going to use a time of 8 hours at 60 degrees from vertical. This is obviously an oversimplification of the problem, but good enough for a rough estimate. Oh, also I will use the efficiency of 20 percent.
From the area, sunlight angle and efficiency, I can calculate the average power:
Since the total energy is just the product of power and time (in seconds), I get an energy of 112 x 106 Joules (112 MJ). But is that enough to keep this truck trucking?
In order for the trailer solar panel to be meaningful, the energy you get from the panels would have to be significant with respect to the energy stored in the truck battery. Unfortunately, Tesla does not list the size of the battery in its truck. I'm just going to have to estimate it.
Here's what I know: It has a range of 500 miles and it's sort of like a diesel truck (but maybe more aerodynamic). So, if I can approximate the energy used as a traditional truck drives 500 miles—that should be about the same as the energy stored in the battery.
According to Wikipedia, a truck driving at 70 mph requires a power of 280 hp (this is 2.09 x 105 Watts). At this speed, it would take 7.14 hours to drive 500 miles. And since I know the power and the time (which I can convert to seconds), I can calculate the energy.
OK, that's a lot of energy. Although the energy from the solar panel might seem like a large value, it's only 2 percent of the total battery energy. Oh sure, there's a good chance that I made some poor estimates in my calculation—but it probably doesn't matter. Even if I was off by a factor of 5, I'm still only at 10 percent of the total battery capacity. This means that it would take 80 hours, not eight, in order to charge the whole darn battery. Sorry, Elon: This just wouldn't work.


If you’ve never had a robot snake constrict around your leg, let me tell you, it’s a weird feeling. As it curls its way up your ankle, then shin, then finally wraps around your knee, it gets tighter and tighter. Fortunately, unlike a real snake, it doesn’t have teeth. Unfortunately, also unlike a real snake, it’s made of metal joints that pinch harder and harder until you say, “OK, that’s enough,” and the young man at the controls hits a button and calls off the machine.
Here at the Biorobotics Lab at Carnegie Mellon University, there's a veritable menagerie of mechatrons. The snake slithers, a robot insect crawls about, and a wheeled biped speeds down the hallway—until you try to give it a push and it crashes into a wall. This is the strange melding of animal and machine, looking to nature not to copy it one-for-one, but to find inspiration in the bodies that evolution has crafted over millions of years.
But snakes, why did it have to be snakes? Because serpents have a lot to teach us about locomotion that looks nothing like our own. Snakes can swim, they can climb, they can slither forward and sidewind sideways to tackle virtually any kind of environment. Hell, they can even fly. Snakes also come in a convenient shape that can squeeze into tight spaces—which might be handy one day for rescue robotics. (These researchers did take their robot snake to Mexico after September’s monster quake to explore collapsed buildings for survivors. The problem, though, is that for the time being it’s better to hunt for signs of life with microphones than it is to visually probe the rubble.)
Carnegie’s snake robot is a modular machine made of 16 motors known as actuators. Think of these as a whole bunch of joints running down the body, making the robot highly dexterous. By manipulating the actuators in the right sequence, the researchers can get the snake to pull off a surprising range of movements, from undulating like a sine wave (think about someone doing the worm) to constricting up legs.
It isn’t built exactly like a snake because, well, it’s impossible to replicate all those bones and muscles. The robot is an homage to a snake, not a copy of one. “This is going to prohibit you from achieving exactly what we're able to observe in biology,” says CMU roboticist Matt Travers. “But it also means that there's going to be things that this robot can do that a biological snake can't.” For instance, rapidly rolling around like an alligator tearing a piece of flesh off a buffalo.
There’s an interesting interplay here between nature and robotics. First of all, it’s about teasing apart the subtleties of biological locomotion. Travers and other researchers, for instance, did experiments that revealed how sidewinders can move up a slope in loose sand. Turns out the snakes ripple with two different waves, one that grips the ground while the other bit moves forward. They then reprogrammed their robot to do the same—and sure enough, it was better able to tackle the same kind of slope.
What Is a Robot?
This Robot Tractor Is Ready to Disrupt Construction
Inside SynTouch, the Mad Lab Giving Robots the Power to Feel
What you really want, though, is a robot snake that can feel. So this lab’s next-gen snake is made of actuators that can sense the force placed on it. “So now we have this robot that can not only move and looks like biology, but it can feel just like a biological system may,” says CMU roboticist Howie Choset. “So like when you're walking through the woods, you're not planning every possible footstep. Your feet are sort of feeling their way as you go along.”
That means that in the lab, this robot can somewhat autonomously navigate a forest of plastic pegs stuck into a large board. An operator tells the snake to move forward at a certain speed, and the machine senses how much force each of its actuators is putting on the pegs. Too much force is bad, since that might get the robot stuck, so the machine cuts a path forward through the pegs that minimizes that pressure.
This kind of sensitivity will be essential for robots going forward, as they work alongside humans. (It's far more likely that robots will help humans at their jobs, not displace them.) Think about a hulking arm that builds cars, and how far away from it you want to be at all times. New robotic arms, though, can sense the forces placed on their joints and immediately halt if they bump into you.
And it’s not just about safety. If we’re going to work with robots, we’re going to have to communicate both verbally and nonverbally. Say you’re carrying a sofa with a robot, you on one side and the machine on the other. If the robot isn’t able to sense your pushing and pulling, someone is going to get hurt and/or bust a sofa.
So by taking cues from the animal kingdom, engineers can and will get to a place where robots not only move more naturally, but that feel and react to their environment. And that, my friends, is why it had to be snakes.


When someone walks or rolls into the emergency department at Cedars-Sinai hospital in Los Angeles with food stuck in their throat, the ER staff calls someone like Brennan Spiegel. As a gastroenterologist, food-pulling-out is something he’s uniquely equipped to do. So when he got the call one day to see a young man admitted with something caught in his esophagus, he was already mentally preparing for a trip to the operating room. But when he arrived, there was something off about the way the patient was beating his chest with his fist. “This guy’s not choking,” Spiegel thought, “he’s having a panic attack.”
So rather than calling for a gurney and an OR transfer, Spiegel reached for a pair of virtual reality goggles, pulled them over the patient’s eyes, and dialed up a scene of a beach in Hawaii. Within a few seconds the patient stopped struggling. A few minutes later he had stopped moving entirely—not even when prodded. Slightly alarmed, Spiegel began to peel the goggles off the patient’s face. Tears came pouring out. “I’ve been thinking about my whole life in there,” the patient said. “I feel like it’s spinning out of control.”
A short while later, the patient was discharged to psychiatric care. There had never been any food in his throat. The mind can play tricks like that. Luckily, VR can play tricks right back.
Cedars-Sinai is one of an increasing number of hospitals testing how virtual reality could improve patient outcomes. Spiegel is one of the clinical researchers leading that charge. He’s focusing his efforts on something much more universal than the occasional psychosomatic suffocation: pain. Over the past few years he’s conducted clinical trials that show a pair of 3-D goggles can reduce the experience of pain—all kinds, from joint injuries to cancer—by a quarter.
Now, he’s testing the technology for treating chronic pain—the kind that afflicts more than 25 million Americans. All too often, addictive painkillers are the only treatment option for those patients. And with opioids claiming the lives of nearly 100 people every day, doctors are scrambling to find non-addictive alternatives. Virtual reality might soon be one of them, if the science can show it really works.
Scientists started probing the power of VR to ease suffering more than 20 years ago. VR pioneer Hunter Hoffman, a researcher at the University of Washington in Seattle, launched the first pain studies in the early 2000s, using an eight-pound helmet hooked up to a computer the size of a small refrigerator.
Back then, the $90,000 unit transported burn wound patients into a frosty 3-D video game called SnowWorld, designed in cool blues and whites. Burn patients, Hoffman explains, often relive the trauma of their fiery encounters while their wounds are being cleaned. When Hoffman’s patients spent that time in SnowWorld, they reported feeling half as much pain as when they endured the procedure stuck in the reality of the hospital room. What’s more, when he tested SnowWorld on subjects who volunteered to endure a hot poke in the foot, they felt less pain too.
“Acute pain is a perfect match for VR,” says Hoffman. “You only need it for 20 minutes and it has drastic effects.” Chronic pain is a different, more challenging problem. Still, he thinks VR has the potential to enhance many treatments that already work. “If you say, ‘go home and meditate,’ not many patients will follow through,” Hoffman says. “But if you give them a VR system and say ‘go into this ancient world and meditate with monks,’ they’re more likely to actually do it.” VR is just a delivery method: What matters most is what the patients see and experience on the other side of the headset.
So as the cost of the technology has dropped, companies have popped up to build those experiences. One of those is AppliedVR, located just a 15 minute drive from Cedars-Sinai, on Beverly Hills’ Avenue of the Stars. It’s been building out a collection of 3-D content designed to combat pain, like a VR version of Netflix.
“We’re trying to figure out how to prescribe the right experience to the right person based on their needs and their interests,” says President Josh Sackman. So far his team has designed two dozen worlds, each one falling into one of four categories: distraction, relaxation, escape, and education. “But the end goal is to teach skills using technology, not to depend on it for the relief itself.”
The first experience they built was something called Bear Blast. It’s a cartoonish castle-scape where you go around shooting red teddy bears with balls from a cannon you aim with your head. The more bears you knock over, the more points you get. This is the game Spiegel gave to patients in a recent clinical trial. Out of 100 people who self-reported persistent, daily pain, half got an $800 kit with a Samsung headset and a Galaxy phone loaded with Bear Blast. The other half got to watch 2-D relaxation videos of lakes and babbling brooks. While they experienced a small bit of relief, the VR group reported feeling 25 percent less pain than when they started.
Bear Blast works—at least in theory—by distracting your brain. By grabbing all of its attention, the game closes down pathways that would transfer pain signals from your peripheral nervous system. The more immersed you are, the less pain you feel.
So how do you design for that? It’s one part game design playbook, one part trial and error. AppliedVR’s first attempt was actually a total flop. They started out fashioning a sort of candy-colored Disneyland ride, where you careen through a fantasy world knocking over things as you go. But they quickly discovered it was too freeform. People needed more direction. Hence, bowling over cute, fuzzy teddy bears. That works really well for acute pain. But the same principles apply for content that’s meant to deliver more long-lasting effects.
In a more recent trial at Cedars, Spiegel gave his patients more than just Bear Blast. They could choose a variety of experiences, like swimming with dolphins or flying over the fjords of Iceland in a helicopter, or just sitting on a beach and thinking about life. A voice in your ear might talk you through a breathing exercise, or ask you to contemplate the people and things that bring you joy. Mindfulness, meditation, and cognitive behavioral therapy are well-established pain management techniques, but most doctors don’t offer them to patients because they’re worried no one will buy in. The promise of a pill is a lot more tangible.
First They Got Sick, Then They Moved Into a Virtual Utopia
Virtual Reality Needs to Be Social to Succeed
A Brave Bomb-Disposal Robot You Control in Virtual Reality
“We know that positive thinking can actually work on a molecular level, by stopping ions from jumping the gate and causing pain signals to reach the brain,” says William Clark Becker, an internist at the Yale School of Medicine, where he researches pain management and addiction. He is not involved in any of AppliedVR's trials. “You can’t transplant people’s nerves. You can’t undo the process, but you can dampen the heightened pain signals that are getting up to the brain. And positive-thinking people are also better equipped to withstand the vagaries of everyday life.”
He’s found that his patients actually respond really well to mindfulness and CBT, and delivering those treatments in immersive VR is a tantalizing idea. But he says the important thing is making sure the evidence is there to show it’s an effective way to reach patients. Doctors like Spiegel are developing a stronger and stronger case that it is. In his next study, he's working with a major insurance company to evaluate whether or not virtual reality can reduce the number of opioids taken by people who've been recently injured on the job.
He imagines a world in the not too distant future where people coming out of surgeries or recovering from an accident walk out of the hospital with a set of VR goggles instead of a painkiller prescription. Because as Americans learned last week when President Trump declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency, if “we get people before they start, they don’t have to go through the problems of what people are going through.” Easier said than done. But maybe easier to do with virtual reality.


From the air, the largest glacier on the biggest ice sheet in the world looks the same as it has for centuries; massive, stable, blindingly white. But beneath the surface it’s a totally different story. East Antarctica’s Totten Glacier is melting, fast, from below. Thanks to warm ocean upwellings flowing into the glacier—in some places at the rate of 220,000 cubic meters per second—it’s losing between 63 and 80 billion tons of previously frozen fresh water every year.
This matters because Totten glacier and its ice shelf are the only thing keeping an area of ice larger than the state of California from breaking up. If all that ice were to end up in the ocean tomorrow, sea levels would rise by 10 to 20 feet—flooding San Francisco’s iconic Ferry Building, most of Manhattan’s Lower East Side, and the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, DC.
In some ways, this should come as no surprise. For decades researchers have been projecting that the planet’s polar ice reserves will wither in the face of rising temperatures. But more recent satellite data, models, and fieldwork have revealed that it’s happening faster than anyone expected. And increasingly, scientists are finding evidence to pin that Antarctic acceleration on a less obvious aspect of climate change: wind.
Last year, researchers from the US and Australia discovered that churn from deep undersea canyons was bathing the underside of Totten glacier in water warm enough to melt it. But the mechanisms were still a mystery. On Wednesday, they published a study showing that westerly winds blowing off the coast of Antarctica are driving the upwelling, and leading to faster ice flow on the glacier.
To get a feel for why that’s not normal, it helps to understand what’s going on at the ocean-ice interface. As glaciers and ice shelves melt, they deposit their cold, fresh water onto the ocean surface, where it sits above warmer, saltier, denser water. It’s not a gradual transition, but a sharp one. Like when your bottle of salad dressing settles in the refrigerator and you have to shake it back up before serving. That line is called a thermocline, and scientists can measure exactly where it is in the water column. If it rises up to where the glacier is, that’s when you get melting.
By comparing satellite images with oceanic wind records and water temperature and salinity data streaming in from a sensor floating nearby, the team was able to track the thermocline at Totten over time. They found that when the winds blew strong from the west, warm water rushed up and into the glacier. When the winds blew from the east, the thermocline sank back down and melting ceased.
“As a pure scientific curiosity, it’s really fascinating that CO2 can lead to sea level rise not only by heating up the air directly and melting the glacier from above but also just from wind moving heat around the ocean to melt it from below,” says Chad Greene, a research scientist at the University of Texas and lead author of the study. “But then of course there’s a gloom and doom component to this discovery as well.”
That’s because westerly winds along the East Antarctic coast are projected to get a lot stronger over the next 100 years. Gerald Meehl, a senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, explains that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases aren’t just raising air temperatures. They’re shifting and intensifying the westerly wind belt that circles Antarctica. “Future climate projections show an even stronger positive phase of the Southern Annual Mode, which means stronger surface west winds occurring farther south,” he says. “That would drive those winds closer to Antarctica and provide an ongoing mechanism for melting more ice and producing greater sea level rise.”
And not just a little bit more ice, but like, a lot more ice. That’s thanks to some topographical wonkiness unique to Antarctica. The bedrock on the southernmost continent doesn’t slope up like a mountain as you go from the coast to the interior. Instead, it tilts downward, in places even dropping up to a few miles below sea level. Invading waters would quickly flow downhill, seeping further and further inland, and causing ever-larger hunks of ice to flow faster out into the ocean.
“What that means is as you melt it back at the edges, even a little bit, by bringing in that warm water, you really quickly get a runaway scenario,” says Paul Spence, an oceanographer at the University of New South Wales in Sydney. Earlier this year he published a study in Nature Climate Change that looked at similar upwelling patterns causing drastic melting in the West Antarctic, where most ice sheets and glaciers have their base below sea level. “This has happened in the past on pretty quick timescales. It might take thousands of years for a glacier to form, but they can totally collapse in just a few years. That’s what we’re most concerned about.”
Think States Alone Can’t Handle Sea Level Rise? Watch California
Giant Antarctic Icebergs and Crushing Existential Dread
Sea Level Rise Is Already Driving People From the Marshall Islands
Ocean water has already carved contoured troughs that extend all the way from the edge of Totten’s ice shelf to its bedrock 77 miles inland, and as deep as 2 miles below sea level. The last time Totten Glacier—whose melting could raise sea levels as much as all of West Antarctica—collapsed into the ocean, about 3 million years ago, it raised global waters by 20 to 30 feet.
Understanding the chances of that happening again is going to take some serious supercomputing. But the interplay between wind, water, and ice in the Antarctic is only just beginning to be incorporated in global sea level projections. When the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change put out its most recent report in 2013, it didn’t include any information on changing ice sheet melt in the Antarctic—partly because no one understood the mechanisms very well back then, and partly because computers just weren’t powerful enough. At the time, the IPCC estimated that sea levels would rise 3.3 feet by 2100.
But some scientists now think that number should be double. By marrying some of the previously underappreciated local ice sheet dynamics with global climate data, a 2016 analysis in Nature found that Antarctica alone could contribute an additional 3.3 feet of water before the end of the century.
It’s just a start. There’s still a ton scientists don’t know about how winds will change in Antarctica, or anywhere else for that matter. And they say that’s probably the single-most significant unknown in the already hyper-complicated arithmetic of predicting sea level rise. Does the flap of a butterfly’s wings in Brazil set off a continent-wide collapse of ice into the Southern Ocean? Maybe. But only if it blows from the west.


The microbes living on Earth are so plentiful as to be innumerable. Untold. Countless. Not in the hyperbolic sense, but the literal, gobsmacking sense. "It's estimated there are 100 million times as many bacteria as there are stars in the universe," says microbiologist Rob Knight, director of UC San Diego's Center for Microbiome Innovation. "And we know almost nothing about most of them."
To map the planet's microbiome—to classify its sundry members and fathom their relationships—would be beyond ambitious. "It’s a crazy idea. Cataloguing the microbial diversity is an immense problem, you know, because there are approximately a trillion species on the planet," says microbiologist Jack Gilbert, director of the University of Chicago's Microbiome Center.
It's funny to hear Knight and Gilbert talk this way. Because seven years ago, the two of them teamed up with microbiologist Janet Jansson, director of biological sciences at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, to found the Earth Microbiome Project, a positively massive international effort devoted to—you guessed it—cataloguing the planet's microbiome.
The article itself is a textbook of ecology.
Martin Blaser, director of NYU's Human Microbiome Program
Today, Gilbert, Knight, Jansson, and a few hundred of their colleagues unveiled the inaugural version of that microbial map: the first reference database of bacteria colonizing the planet. To do it, they developed new protocols, analytical methods, and software for identifying and comparing microorganisms collected from every continent. All told, EMP collaborators collected 27,751 samples from organisms and environments around the world, including the human gut, a bird's mouth, the soil of an Antarctic volcano, a river in Alaska, and the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. Published this week in Nature, the effort represents the work of upwards of 500 researchers from more than 160 institutions in 43 countries around the globe. It's the most macro study of the microscopic world ever published.
"This article itself is a textbook of ecology," says microbiologist Martin Blaser, director of New York University's Human Microbiome Program, who was unaffiliated with the project. "Students in years to come will read it and say: Here’s where a lot of the rules originated—the rules of ecological relationships, the principles for how nature is organized."
Those organizing principles are too numerous—and, in most cases, too nascent—to recount here. (The 27,751 samples collected for this meta analysis appear in some 100 other studies, half of which have already been published in peer-reviewed journals.) But Knight sums it up: "What was really remarkable about our findings was that this was true across different types of environments, whether we’re talking about microbes on animals, or on plants, or in saline or on non-saline communities," he says. "Even though the kinds of microbes in these environments are completely different, the ecological principles remain largely the same." And now microbiologists have a tool to dig up even more of those dynamic principles.
But compiling the catalogue wasn't easy. As in previous studies, the researchers classified samples of bugs by sequencing the 16S rRNA gene, which carries unique mutations that act like a bacterial barcode. Once researchers have the sequences for all the bugs in a particular sample, they compare them all to each other and cluster bacteria into groups based on their similarities. Their identities become interdependent.
That kind of interdependence is fine if you're assessing the diversity of bacteria from a small set of samples, from a specific region—but it makes it makes it difficult for researchers to compare bacteria between environments, or compare their observations to yours. "It really limits the ability to share information, or to accumulate information across studies," says microbiologist Jon Sanders, a postdoc in Knight's lab and coauthor on the Nature paper.
It’s especially a problem if you’re dealing with billions of sequences—which is exactly what the Earth Microbiome Project had. Its researchers sequenced the 16S rRNA genes not from the microbes in one sample, or even a few hundred—but all 27,751 of them. This yielded some 2.2 billion sequences.
To put that number in perspective, 10 years ago, Knight published what was, at the time, the most comprehensive analysis of the planet's microbial makeup. He and co-author Catherine Lozupone combined 16S rRNA sequences from 111 studies, for a grand total of 21,752 sequences. In Knight's words, the 2.2 billion sequences in this new paper represent a 100,000-fold expansion in our knowledge of the microbial world.
So with the help of some clever algorithms, the researchers classified the 2.2 billion sequences not by clustering them, but by trimming each one down to a stretch of genetic code 90 base pairs long—a completely independent identifier. When the researchers were through scrubbing their data, they had 307,572 unique microbial sequences, almost 90 percent of which were undocumented in existing 16S rRNA databases.
With Designer Bacteria, Crops Could One Day Fertilize Themselves
Obesity Surgery May Work by Remaking Your Gut Microbiome
Your Body Is Surrounded by Clouds of Skin and Fart Bacteria
"I call it the true name of the bacteria," Sanders says. In practice, a true name means not having to wonder if the microbe you found in a lake in Colorado is the same as the one your colleague found off the coast of San Diego five years ago. And with EMP's catalogue, researchers can usually identify where a sample originated just by knowing the creatures living in it. "The key thing is, I can see the sequence now and it's meaningful, and I can see it again in 20 years and it will still be meaningful," Sanders says. "It gives us the ability to accumulate information about these bacteria across many, many studies going into the future."
That makes the EMP database more than a resource—it's also a jumping off point. "It opens the field toward more complicated types of analysis, and serves as a masterful example of how microbiologists and biologists can work together to address much bigger questions" says Nikos Kyrpides, director of the Microbiome Data Science Group at the Department of Energy's Joint Genome Institute, who was not affiliated with the study. "We need to confront the fact that we’re living on a microbial planet, that the magnitude of work we need to do is enormous, and we can only do it if we work collaboratively."
To that end, Jansson, Knight, and Gilbert say they're recruiting more contributors from around the world—to collect samples from a greater range of latitudes and elevations. To target fungi, in addition to bacteria. To sequence not just the 16S rRNA gene, but entire genomes. And to bridge EMP's catalogue with other databases, like the American Gut dataset.
"There will be more to come," says Jansson. After all, there are 100 million times as many bacteria as there are stars in the universe. That means there are innumerable billions—maybe trillions—of microbes left to meet.
Cats can make you go nuts and it's not just the emotional manipulation that's driving you batty...it might be a parasite.


A monster was coming to central Oklahoma.
Early in the evening of May 30, 2013, Cathy Finley and her partner, Bruce Lee, were driving along a back road near the small town of Guthrie, Oklahoma, 30 miles north of the state’s capital, when they spotted Tim Samaras and two members of his crew leaning against a white sedan and looking out over the low hills. Samaras, an old friend of the couple’s and one of the most famous storm chasers in the country, was in the area for the same reason as Finley and Lee—they were all severe-weather researchers, and a tornado was on its way.
The three friends had known each other for almost a decade, and in 2007 they helped found Twistex, a group dedicated to gathering atmospheric data to better understand ­tornadoes. Whenever a storm threatened to spin up a twister, the Twistex team would gas up the chase vehicles and assume familiar roles: Samaras would try to get as close as possible to the funnel to deploy his measurement probes, and Finley and Lee would slice through the storm in sedans outfitted with roof-mounted weather stations, gathering data that radar and weather balloons miss. A reputation for fearlessness landed the Twistex team a spot on a reality show called Storm Chasers, which featured their exploits for three seasons until Discovery Channel canceled the show in 2011 due to low ratings. Funding for Twistex dried up, and the members went their separate ways, meeting up whenever serious wind threatened to blow through the plains.
When they reunited on the back road near Guthrie, all three wanted nothing more than to take on the coming tornado together the way they used to. But with no source of cash to field an entire chasing team, this season was a no-go. Besides, the most recent forecasts indicated that the next day’s storm would reach peak intensity once it entered the Oklahoma City metro area during rush hour, and Finley and Lee had long since sworn off pursuing twisters down crowded streets—too dangerous, too hard to collect good data. They decided to pack up their gear and head home to Minnesota, leaving Samaras and crew to chase the storm.
What if America Had a Detective Agency for Disasters?
Climate Change and the Terrible, No-Good Odds of Bad Weather
Deep Thunder Can Forecast the Weather—Down to a City Block
During the long drive back the following day, Finley followed the storm on her laptop through radar tracking and live footage from spotters and news helicopters. Forecasters had been wrong about one key detail—the tornado let loose in wide-open farm country, about 25 miles west of the city. It measured about 2 1⁄2 miles across, easily the widest anyone had ever seen. Its peak wind velocities registered at least 290 mph and possibly much higher, about the fastest on record. And its main funnel rode the southern rim of its parent storm for nearly 40 minutes, moving back and forth along a wide, wobbling arc like a menacing grin. Knowing Samaras as well as she did, Finley guessed he was having the time of his life right in the thick of it.
Back at home in Minnesota, as Saturday turned to Sunday, the phone rang around 1 am, rousing Finley and Lee from a deep sleep. Lee, rangy and well-­muscled, slipped out of bed and padded across the house toward the kitchen. The phone went quiet, then rang again, and he answered it. It was a former student from the University of Northern Colorado, where he and Finley used to run the small meteorology department. His voice shaking, the man said he had it on good authority that three bodies found on a desolate Oklahoma back road belonged to Samaras, his 24-year-old son (and videographer) Paul, and meteorologist Carl Young.
Finley heard a curious tenor in Lee’s voice from the bedroom and came to his side. She’s a tall woman from western Minnesota farm country with almond eyes, and she and Lee were unsure whether they should grieve or wait for confirmation. Night gave way to day, and as the windows began to pale with the approach of dawn, they got a call from another former Twistex colleague confirming the worst.
Bruce Lee, along with Cathy Finley, drove through storms collecting data on tornadoes.
In the days that followed, Finley retreated to her neglected garden, where she took her anger and grief out on the weeds. Meanwhile, Lee pieced together what happened: Samaras had been driving his Chevy Cobalt hundreds of yards north of the tornado—and at times much, much closer—likely thinking he was tracking parallel to the twister at a safe distance. But something caused the funnel to swing fast toward the vehicle, engulfing it. Samaras might have thought he had studied enough tornadoes to guess this one’s movements, but whatever signs or signals he typically relied on to anticipate a twister’s path (its heading, the stage of its development, the direction of the wind) had failed him. He may have thought he had the right information, but he didn’t.
Based on radar measurements, the tornado had ­EF-5-level wind speeds. The Enhanced Fujita scale assigns every tornado a number from 0 to 5 based on how much destruction the wind speeds inflict. The damage from an EF-0 could just as easily be accomplished with a strong wind gust. An EF-5, on the other hand, in which winds exceed 200 mph, leaves behind scenes of devastation reminiscent of razed Japanese cities. Asphalt gets scoured off roads. Vehicles get tossed the length of a football field. The EF levels in between account for varying degrees of destruction, and despite decades of research, scientists still don’t understand exactly how the air we breathe can suddenly strip a home down to its concrete slab. We’ve put a man on the moon and unlocked the secrets of the atom, but the inside of a tornado is, in many respects, still a mystery.
What scientists do know is that extreme storms like the one that killed Samaras—and the hurricanes that ripped through Texas, Florida, and the ­Caribbean this summer—are likely to develop with greater frequency and intensity. According to a recent study in the American Journal of Climate Change that analyzed 42 years’ worth of tornadic atmospheric indicators, the supertornado that killed Samaras should occur in a stable climate, on average, once every 900 years. But when the researchers accounted for factors such as atmospheric instability and warming oceans (both associated with climate change), they confirmed what the rest of us already know from watching the news: ­Once-in-a-millennium storms no longer require 1,000 years to recur. No scientist can say for certain whether climate change is to blame for the severity of any single storm. They only know that they have to figure out what ­creates and sustains these storms, fast. Better, richer data and more powerful computers would help forecasters build ever more predictive storm models. They could tell those in a tornado’s path not only that a monster is coming, but what kind. Warnings would be longer, more precise, more urgent. Lives would be saved, families left intact.
For decades, Finley and Lee had lost themselves in the vastness of the plains, immersed in the puzzle of mesoscale weather patterns, part of something far larger than themselves. Samaras and the other chasers were a second family to them—a “storm family,” Finley says. And storm chasing, she adds, “is about watching each other’s backs.” Samaras and his crew died, Lee says, because “there was nobody watching their backs.” Because there was nobody, and nothing, to tell them where the great storm was headed next.
Cathy Finley, a storm chaser and a founding member of Twistex.
At the edge of emerald fields of corn and soybeans sits the National Peta­scale Computing Facility, the crown jewel of the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. The 88,000-square-foot glass-­covered facility looks like a fancy convention center, and it’s surrounded by a black steel fence strong enough to stop a speeding Mack truck. Past a retina scanner and through a heavy-gauge steel door resides a computer named Blue Waters. It’s big—spanning 10,000 square feet—and it’s made up of 288 matte-black rack towers that house the 27,000 nodes that are the key to its power. Each node holds two microprocessors, not unlike a stripped-down PC but faster than anything you’ll find at Best Buy.
Since powering up in 2013, Blue Waters has been one of the few computers in the world capable of processing the biggest of big data sets, encompassing everything from the evolution of the universe to the global spread of flu pandemics. It’s also one of the only machines in the world that can model the staggering complexities of a supertornado, which is exactly what an atmospheric scientist named Leigh Orf spent the better part of 2013 failing to do.
At the time Orf was chair of the Earth science department at Central Michigan University, a school in the small town of Mt. Pleasant. “Weather has always been on my radar, so to speak,” Orf says today. The fascination began in the early ’70s, just after bath time in his boyhood home in Ludlow, Massachusetts, when a concussion ripped through the house with the ferocity of a pipe bomb. The wall in his sister’s bedroom was blown out—paneling everywhere, insulation smoking, wires red-hot and glowing. “It scared the living shit out of me,” he says. Orf wouldn’t enter the room for months. He was 5, and he has been obsessed with weather ever since.
A dozen or so years later, when he arrived at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and fell in love with coding, he learned about the community of scientists who had been using computers to simulate storms since the 1970s. In the earliest renderings, most computers couldn’t re-create any features of a tornado that were less than a kilometer wide or tall, meaning they could re-create the broad contours of a storm but none of its important details. Over time, driven in part by advances in microprocessing power, scientists gradually sharpened the resolution from 1 kilometer to 500 meters and eventually to 100 meters, the storm and the tornado steadily coming into focus.
Not focused enough for Orf, though. After spending the early 2000s studying what he considers low-resolution simulations (with features rendered within 250 to 500 meters), Orf came to believe that the only way to understand how and why a supertornado forms was to re-create one in superfine resolution—30 meters, meaning it could render any detail of a storm so long as it measured at least 100 feet long or wide. Compared to the 1-kilometer resolution of early simulations, that’s the difference between the blocky pixelation of Atari and the eerie verisimilitude of Xbox One. To achieve that level of detail, it would take Orf’s personal computer a decade to simulate a single storm—and that’s only if it could handle the data and memory load, which it couldn’t. He would need a computer that could process hundreds of terabytes of data, over and over and over again. A supercomputer, really, only one that hadn’t yet been invented. So he waited.
Superstorm soundings are very rare: It’s hard to take measurements when all hell is breaking loose.
He spent the next decade forging connections with scientists at research facilities around the world. And when the $360 million Blue Waters system came online after two years of construction, one of those connections, Bob Wilhelmson, a pioneer of storm modeling who taught at the U of I, reached out to Orf. With Wilhelmson’s help, Orf got nine months of access to Blue Waters to create what no researcher ever had: a simulated EF-5 tornado that could be studied, and maybe even reverse-­engineered, revolutionizing our understanding of storms that have otherwise defied comprehension.
On his first day of access in December 2012, he logged on from his office in Michigan, keyed in a PIN to access the encrypted network, and prepared to upload a trove of data known as a sounding. Every day, National Weather Service stations all over the country release weather balloons to gather yard-by-yard accounts of how pressure, temperature, relative humidity, and wind speed change from the surface to altitudes as high as 20 miles in the sky. This collection of data, to the untrained eye, looks like an Excel spreadsheet filled with numbers. To translate these raw numbers into a digital storm, Orf would use CM1, a program that uses the meteorological data in any given sounding to simulate a near-infinite combination of weather conditions. An environment that produces a tornado in the real world should spark a similar result in a CM1 simulation, at least in theory. And Orf would then be able to manipulate certain parameters—increasing and decreasing the amount of friction from the ground, tweaking the way the model handles turbulence—to determine which factors are most critical in building, sustaining, and driving a supertornado.
Processing all the data in a sounding and creating a simulation could take Blue Waters anywhere from a few hours to a few days, depending on the amount of data being crunched, and Orf didn’t want to waste any time with unnecessarily complicated soundings. The first sounding he uploaded was synthetic, a simple composite built by scientists that contained all the atmospheric ingredients believed to cause tornadoes. As Orf began to play with the synthetic atmosphere, though, Blue Waters would only produce what he calls “wussy-ass tornadoes.” He spent days adjusting different variables—decreasing the evaporation rate of rain, for example—but nothing worked. Whatever it is that creates a supertornado isn’t found in synthetic soundings, and after months of trial and error Orf knew he needed to do something different. “Screw this,” he remembers telling his wife. “I’m going to Mother Nature.”
Leigh Orf had nine months with a supercomputer to ­simulate an EF-5 tornado.
A friend from the University of North Dakota offered Orf a sounding from a real-life EF-3. Yet even the real thing, when uploaded into the model, spawned nothing more than what Orf calls “spin-ups,” transient tornadoes he has little interest in. Orf would alternate between genuine and synthetic soundings over the following months, never spinning up anything close to a super­tornado. With each day bringing him closer to his Blue Waters deadline, he realized that if he intended to simulate a beast, he needed to find an EF-5 sounding. But superstorm soundings are exceedingly rare, since measurements must be taken near the twister as it forms, and that’s a little tricky when all hell is breaking loose. There is also no centralized database stocked with ready-made superstorm soundings, even at the National Weather Service.
Then, at the end of August 2013, with just a few weeks left before his time with Blue Waters ran out, Orf got an email from Lou Wicker, a scientist at the National Severe Storms Laboratory and a former student of his mentor, Wilhelmson. Wicker heard about Orf’s project and wanted to help, and his email included a file, a warning, and a winking emoji: “Be careful with this sounding,” Wicker wrote. “It could damage the machine.”
He needed a massive supercomputer, one that hadn’t been invented yet. So he waited.
The storm happened on May 24, 2011. Like the one that would kill Samaras two years later, its winds ripped through the plains at more than 200 mph. Along its 63-mile path it killed nine people, injured nearly 200, and rolled a 1.9 million–pound drilling rig three times. It was an EF-5. Orf loaded the sounding into CM1, and even before it formed a tornado the simulation went haywire, depicting wind speeds in the storm’s updraft that had never been documented in nature.
Orf suspected the problem wasn’t with the data in the sounding but with CM1 (or at least the way he was using CM1). For the clouds and rain and wind to swirl in the virtual world as they do in nature, Blue Waters had to communicate the movement of air between its 27,000 nodes, which acted like an interconnected grid. These nodes had to talk to each other and process the data in single, coordinated units of time, called time steps, that Orf could increase and decrease in CM1 as needed. The lower the time step, the faster the wind speeds possible in the program’s simulation. A lower time step also meant longer processing times, meaning Orf would have fewer opportunities to run simulations during his precious remaining days with Blue Waters.
Orf took the risk. He first shortened the time step to 0.3 second, uploaded the sounding, and let Blue Waters run. Two hours passed and the system failed. He then shortened the time step to 0.25 second. Thirteen hours went by, and it failed again. Then, shortly before 10 am on September 16, 2013, he initialized the last simulation he would be allowed to run on Blue Waters. He set a time step of 0.2 second, and since Blue Waters would require the better part of the day to process the data, Orf logged off and tried to think about anything other than tornadoes. When he logged back on at 6 pm, he expected to find that the simulation had blown up again.
It hadn’t.
The model appeared stable, and he saw something big and exceptionally violent on his screen—a tornado. As CM1 translated the EF-5 sounding, the tornado kept getting wider. The intensity, path length, duration—it all matched the characteristics of the real storm. Orf had just simulated the first high-­resolution EF-5 tornado along with its parent supercell ­thunderstorm, and anything researchers had ever wanted to learn about how a supertornado is born, and how it maintains its size and strength, was inside it. All he needed was someone to help him make sense of it all.
Five months later, on February 1, 2014, Orf flew to Atlanta for the annual meeting of the American Meteorological Society. With an iPad full of vivid video clips of his simulated supertornado, he paraded through the halls of the Omni Hotel. After years of toiling underground, he was at last ready to show his storm to the public and enlist other scientists to help him analyze it.
That’s when he ran into two familiar faces: Finley and Lee. The world of severe-weather science is small; everyone knows everyone. Orf hadn’t seen Lee or Finley since the death of their friends in Oklahoma the previous year, and he told them how relieved he was that they hadn’t chased that day. He then pulled them aside, turned on his iPad, and showed them what he had. Their jaws hung slack. The way the rain curtains slid around the tornado, the way the funnel rode the edge of the storm like a column made of cloud and dust: Lee and Finley had seen all this in nature but never in a simulation. Twistex had spent years gathering snippets of data from storms, but their work was like shining a penlight into the pitch black of a cavern. The pieces didn’t form the big picture—the grand schematic of a ­supertornado’s internal and largely inscrutable machinery.
This was the big picture, and they asked Orf to replay the video half a dozen times. They knew they were seeing a simulated storm as no scientists had ever done before, and when Orf asked for their help analyzing the simulation, they jumped at the chance.
On a chilly afternoon this past winter, Finley peered into the guts of the supertornado Orf had first shown her three years earlier, her face washed in the glow of the monitor. School had let out for the holidays, and the halls of Saint Louis University were mostly empty. Since that day in Atlanta, Finley and the others had reoriented their lives around the simulation. Orf is now at the University of Wisconsin, and the folks at Blue Waters have granted him an additional two years of access—as close as one gets to carte blanche.
In her office, Finley let her eyes roam over all the currents she could never see out on the plains. It makes for hypnotic viewing, as though Orf had peeled away the skin of the supertornado to reveal its viscera and sinew. She and Lee can now release digital trackers into the simulated tornado, a little like injecting contrast dye to image blood vessels on a CT scan. They could zoom in on where most of the activity takes place throughout a tornado’s evolution. And their discoveries will help guide storm chasers on the ground as they try to measure and track storms from a safe distance. “We’re going to be able to target our observations to see if we can see in the real world what Leigh’s team is seeing in their simulations,” says Jeff Snyder, a research scientist at the Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies who knows Finley and Lee from storm conferences.
No scientist had ever seen a simulated storm like that before.
One of their discoveries calls into question a central assumption of many storm researchers. For years Finley and Lee studied a downdraft at the rear flank of tornadoes, and like most of their colleagues they believed it played a crucial role in perpetuating the twister’s ­life cycle. Their simulations, however, suggest that most of the action during the genesis of a tornado happens near the front of the storm, with a spinning riot of air, or what they’ve christened “a streamwise vorticity current,” that pushes air upward more forcefully. It’s a ­theory they still need to prove, but if it holds up to further testing and observation, Finley says, “we’ve been focusing on the wrong thing all this time.”
It will take Finley, Lee, and Orf years to fully understand this particular EF-5, and they plan to simulate an ensemble of different supertornadoes, hoping to draw out their common features. They’ll soon benefit from even greater computer power. The coming age of ­exascale computing—and the transition from silicon toward carbon nanotubes and chips made from gallium nitride or graphene—will offer processing times magnitudes faster than the petascale computing at Blue Waters. That means resolutions impossible just a few years ago. Five meters, maybe even less.
The Simulated Supertornado
Leigh Orf’s detailed storm simulations allowed him, Cathy Finley, and Bruce Lee to spot a n­ever-before-seen feature of a tornado: a helix-shaped tube of air racing around the central funnel. They’ve dubbed it the streamwise vorticity current, and it could be a breakthrough in understanding how the world’s worst twisters work. —Chelsea Leu
The vortex: This thick column of orange stuff is a bunch of swirling air that forms the vortex of the tornado.
Cold pool: A region of cold air beneath the storm, formed by evaporating rain, that feeds the streamwise vorticity current.
Streamwise vorticity current: This spiraling river of air flows upward from the tornado’s forward flank into the core of the storm’s updraft, and the researchers believe that the low pressure helps sustain and drive the tornado.
Anticyclonic vortices: The chaotic air around of the tornado a tornado is filled with many smaller vortices, some of which eventually get absorbed into the growing funnel. In Orf’s simulation, these are color-coded by the direction the air is rotating—blue indicates that the air is spinning clockwise; red, counterclockwise.
It could also mean the power to capture and analyze the inner workings of hurricanes like Harvey, Irma, Jose, and Maria. Whereas the widest tornadoes measure 2 1⁄2 miles across, storms such as Harvey and Irma are 100 times as wide. That’s a lot more meteorological data to process and analyze, and once the next generation of supercomputers comes online, scientists might finally have the processing power to create something with the richness and detail of Orf’s EF-5­—an operational model that spans the entire globe, producing hi-res simulations of ongoing hurricanes.
But that’s all on the horizon. In the meantime, Finley, Lee, and Orf are focused on Blue Waters, and Orf has already chosen the next monster to fire across its nodes. This sounding was buried inside archives used by government forecasters and researchers, and Orf only discovered it two years ago. It took place on the late afternoon of May 31, 2013, near El Reno, Oklahoma. It killed Samaras, his son Paul, and Carl Young. For however long it takes, Orf, Finley, and Lee will study the simulated supertornado from the safety of their laptops, breaking it down and building it up and searching for answers in a storm of code.
Brantley Hargrove (@BrantHargrove) is the author of The Man Who Caught the Storm, a biography of Tim Samaras, coming soon.
This article appears in the November issue. Subscribe now.
Listen to this story, and other WIRED features, on the Audm app.
Leigh Orf, an an atmospheric scientist, narrates a simulation of a superstorm tornado created by one of the world's most powerful supercomputers.


On October 1, Stephen Paddock killed 58 people and wounded 546 more, firing multiple rifles from a hotel room in Las Vegas overlooking an outdoor concert. Then he killed himself. No one knows why he did it.
As part of the attempt to figure that out, The New York Times and others report, the Clark County Coroner’s office is sending Paddock’s brain to the Stanford University lab of Hannes Vogel, a neuropathologist. Vogel (who, at the request of Stanford’s communications office, is not speaking to the press) will perform both visual and microscopic examinations of Paddock’s brain, looking for abnormalities, tumors, degenerative illnesses, or anything else that might suggest why an otherwise unassuming video poker player would turn his extensive gun collection on innocent people.
Nobody thinks it’s going to work.
Sure, this is due diligence, part of a complete investigation. Vogel is a pathologist, so maybe he’ll find something pathological—maybe a tumor in the ventral medial or dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, parts of the brain that have to do with impulse control and willpower. Damage there, or maybe to the inferior posterior ventral cortex can also make people more violent.
Under a microscope, stained with various dyes, a brain can reveal degenerative disorders that can contribute to depression or poor emotional control.
But people get tumors and degenerative diseases all the time. Most of them don’t become vicious killers. “If you have a mass murderer and you looked at his brain, it would completely amaze me if you could see anything relevant or useful,” says Christof Koch, chief scientist and president of the Allen Institute for Brain Science. “The brain probably looks relatively normal.”
That, in short, is the “mind-body problem” that scientists and philosophers have struggled with for as long as there have been scientists and philosophers. You have the meat (billions of neurons and other gunk performing electrochemically networked computation) and you have the ghost—the perception of sensory inputs, their reconstruction inside the brain, the processing of those reconstructions into something comprehensible, and maybe even an awareness of some of that processing. In other words: consciousness.
Neuroscientists actually know quite a lot about the human brain and the mind it generates. At the Allen Institute and elsewhere, they’re building maps of all those neural connections. They can build interfaces into it, wires that go through the skull and into the cortex so that people can control wheelchairs or play piano. By applying machine learning algorithms to brain activity as volunteers watch images for hours inside an fMRI tube, computers can learn to infer from changes in that activity what the person is seeing—to, in essence, read people’s minds. And it works on more than visual input; you could put the same algorithms to work figuring out how someone felt. Is that flower pretty? Is that car cool? Which dress looks better? “I see no a priori reason that couldn’t be done today," Koch says. "Maybe someone is doing it."
It’s not phrenological poppycock to say that brains change physically with new experiences. It’s called plasticity. London cab drivers, for example, famously have to acquire a detailed spatial map of the city as part of their training, and they also acquire an enlarged hippocampus. Stimuli and experiences perceived by the mind change the connections in the meat.
As a presumably skilled user of guns (and player of poker and frequent guest in Las Vegas hotels), maybe Stephen Paddock’s brain has some physiological variance from someone who wasn’t any of those things. But none of that is likely to explain why he kept pulling that trigger. “Sure, you can point to locations in a brain and say, yeah, this general part of it is processing this kind of information,” says Michael Graziano, a neuroscientist at Princeton University. “You can point to structures deep in the brain and say, ‘these have a crucial role to play in emotion, and when this spot revs up it’s associated with anger and rage.’ But in terms of understanding—at the detail level, the circuitry level—how it works and why one person is different from another? Wow, that’s really unknown.”
Investigators and others looking for answers about Las Vegas would like to find that one mechanistic synapse, the one electrical moment that went zing instead of zap and led to the deaths of 58 people, to trauma and injury felt by so many more, rippling outward from that concert. It would give it all some kind of meaning. But it isn’t there. Even if it was, it wouldn’t change what happened.
Controversial Brain Imaging Uses AI to Take Aim at Suicide Prevention
Your Brain Doesn't Contain Memories. It Is Memories
Psychosurgeons Use Lasers to Burn Away Mental Illness
It might, perhaps, keep it from happening again. Maybe you could imagine a bigger research project. Take the brains of 100 mass murderers, or 1,000, and put them through an analytical gauntlet. Do the same for brains of non-murderers—with the researchers blinded to which brains are which. Maybe you’d find a difference, as one researcher did with the brain scans of violent psychopaths.
But then what? Could you imagine, say, pre-emptive surgery or psychopharmacological intervention on people who hadn’t done anything wrong because their brains looked murderous? The researcher working on psychopathy found the tendency in his own brain, too—and he wasn’t a murderer. “If it is true there are systematic differences in the criminal brain, which I sort of doubt, it’ll be good to understand why those brain structures might give rise to criminal behavior,” Koch says. “Then maybe that’ll teach you more how to help people.”
Of course, Koch adds, society already knows some ways to keep children from tending to grow up to become criminals: Give them a good education, proper nutrition, and limited exposure to violence and other stressors.
That knowledge makes the mysteries of Stephen Paddock’s brain even more chilling. People will look at his brain—at the meat, the machine, the matter—in the hope of finding something to blame for his rampage. They’re looking for a physical instantiation of the mind. Because without one, the fault has to fall somewhere else—on some shadowy cause that pushed an otherwise sane mind to commit an insane act, or on the ease with which a quietly insane mind could acquire so many dangerous weapons.
If Veber doesn’t find a tumor or other disease in that brain, the problem with Stephen Paddock won’t have been pathological. It’ll be psychological—or societal. And that’ll mean that society will have to try to fix it.
By implanting a tiny computer chip into the brain and decoding the data that’s produced, Brown neuroscientist John Donoghue is hoping to help people with paralysis reconnect to the world around them. In this World Economic Forum discussion he explains how.


This story originally appeared on Slate and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
When Superstorm Sandy ripped through New York City in October 2012, it did not discriminate. At the construction site of the new Whitney Museum of American Art, chief operating officer John Stanley recalls “mechanical equipment bobbing like corks” in the floodwaters. And at the Rubin Museum of Art, a few blocks uptown, and upland, the museum lost power—a necessity for preserving the artifacts from environmental damage—and the backup generators weren’t enough to keep the facility running. “We thought if we do lose power, in the history of New York City, it would be for a day or two,” executive director Patrick Sears says. “No one really anticipated we could go without power for a week.”
But as once-rare storms like these become more common and more consequential (Sandy caused an estimated $70 billion in damage, behind only Hurricane Katrina), coastal communities are reorienting to a world where they might be underwater at a moment’s notice. And museums are leading the charge when it comes to bolstering up in the face of extreme weather—after all, financially speaking, they might have the most to lose. Along the Eastern Seaboard, from Miami to Manhattan, curators are going to extremes to safeguard their art. And in doing so, they’re testing out ideas and processes that might later be adopted by everyone else who lives on the coast.
Looking back, Stanley says the timing of Superstorm Sandy was actually fortuitous for his museum, the Whitney. Because it was early enough in construction, the team was able to revise its plans with water in mind. “We searched the world for flood experts and engineers,” he says. With the help of WTM Engineers in Hamburg, Germany, the Whitney design team re-evaluated the entire site and, as the Atlantic reported in 2015, built one of the most flood-resilient structures in town.
All along the Eastern Seaboard, from Miami to Manhattan, curators are going to extremes to safeguard their art.
As a result of lessons learned in Sandy, the museum is waterproof up to 16½ feet thanks to its raised elevation and carefully selected materials. It’s also got walls galore: A 500-foot-long mobile wall can be constructed in less than seven hours to protect the museum from a storm surge’s impact, and a 14-by-27-foot flood door can withstand the force of a semitruck floating (or flung) across the West Side Highway. Stanley says it cost just $10 million more to disaster-proof what was, in total, a $220 million project. And though the safeguards haven’t been tested the hard way, he’s confident they’ll rise to the occasion if—or rather, when—another disaster unfolds.
Some museums farther south on the Atlantic seaboard have already lived to see their hurricane-resistant designs tested by storms. Employees at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, recently weathered Hurricane Irma with little damage. Back in July, a videographer for the Washington Post filmed inside the “surreal shelter from the storm.” To protect the precious collection, the Dalí relies on 18-inch-thick walls, which are built to withstand the winds of a Category 5 storm, and fortified glass, which can hold up under the pressure of Category 3 winds. As with so many other museums, the Dalí’s decision to gird its infrastructure seems financially sound: If its walls were breached, the largest collection of Salvador Dalí paintings in the world, priceless and carefully preserved over the past century, could be lost in an instant.
The architectural features that make the Whitney, Dalí, and similar spaces so safe have recently begun to proliferate far and wide, thanks in part to consumer demand and new municipal standards. Perhaps the purest emblem of this surge-priced survival model is the new residential American Copper Buildings. Like the Whitney, these structures sit in Evacuation Zone 1, but on Manhattan’s eastern shore. While it seems damage from another hurricane is all but guaranteed, the waiting list for a unit in one of the American Copper towers is long.
That’s due primarily to the fact that the $650 million buildings, which were started before Sandy hit, reportedly go beyond even the city’s newest resilient design codes—and look great doing it. Connected by a three-story skybridge, the two towers have an elevated lobby that makes them virtually waterproof. The building is also served by rooftop backup generators that promise enough energy to run the elevators plus one fridge and one electrical outlet in each apartment indefinitely. In January, the New York Times wrote this glowing report:
There is a breathtaking view of the mid-Manhattan skyline, pierced by the Empire State Building, from the 48th floor of the taller of two new copper-clad apartment towers along the East River, just south of the United Nations.
No plutocrat will enjoy it, however. This impressive penthouse aerie is hogged by five emergency generators. The window is already blocked by a bank of electrical switchgear. For the developers, giving up premium space to machinery is insurance against an ominous future: They want tenants in the towers’ 760 apartments to be able to live in their apartments for at least a week, no matter how high floodwaters may reach nor how long the power is out. Sure, in the face of an impending storm, residents will still have to get the hell out just like any other New Yorker adhering to evacuation mandates. But American Copper promises them a return to a clean, safe, and electrified home.
Only 39 percent of Americans have a disaster preparedness plan.
Though JDS Development Group, which owns American Copper Buildings, may have been leading the charge on resilient design, the rest of New York City’s new construction is quickly catching up. After Sandy, the Mayor’s Office of Recovery and Resiliency set about studying the metro area’s weather and climate vulnerabilities and crafting solutions. Recently, the city began implementing new building codes, and all new construction is now held to these updated resiliency standards. “We’re not just doing one-off resilience projects. We’re baking resilience into the entire capital program,” the city’s chief resilience officer Daniel Zarrilli says.
Even with the support of the city, resilient design can be hard to scale. Retrofitting old buildings is harder than raising more capital to bolster new designs, according to many architects. Raising an existing single-family home on stilts, as many thousands of East Coasters have done since Sandy, can cost more than $100,000—on a house that’s maybe only worth $400,000. That means that while the Whitney’s resilience costs were less than one-twentieth of the new project cost, the owner of an existing home is looking at resilience costs as high as one-fourth of their total property value. While some local and federal support has been made available to storm victims, the costs of these programs have quickly ballooned—even after many withdrew their applications due to overwhelming bureaucracy and out-of-date flood maps.
It’s clear that equitable resilience will take not just effort and money, but time. “There will just be a slow changeover of the entire housing stock in New York City that slowly meets these codes,” Simon Koster of JDS Development Group says. Given that 66 percent of New York City’s buildings were built before 1960 and aren’t likely to change over in the near future, this doesn’t seem particularly hopeful.
But other less intensive measures are being taken to ensure New Yorkers weather the next storm—and museums can serve as a model here, too. The Rubin, which showcases art from the Himalayan region, didn’t have the budget to undertake big post-Sandy capital improvement projects. While the board paid for a few big-ticket items like a stronger, waterproof roof, it’s poured most of its efforts into better training and communication. “We’re thinking about manual ways, simple ways, things you can buy on Amazon,” Sears says. One of his favorite investments is a windup cellphone charger that doesn’t require an electricity source.
Unlike 18-inch concrete walls, disaster plans like these can be constructed by anyone. But a 2015 Federal Emergency Management Agency survey showed only 39 percent of Americans have their own plan in place. The Rubin, which has a disaster plan 153 pages long, believes this has to change. Other museum strategists agree: “You can call it paranoia, or you can call it strategy,” says Kathy Greif of the Dalí Museum. “I prefer to call it strategy.”
If museums are so prepared, could they help the rest of us—literally? Not really. Unsurprisingly, you won’t be weathering the next hurricane from inside the Met. Though all of the museum leaders I spoke with agree that human lives matter more than paintings, serving as a shelter still seemed to compromise their central mission, which is protecting their collections. Even if it could theoretically provide reprieve, the Whitney sits on the leading edge of Evacuation Zone 1, which means people should be headed out of the neighborhood, not into even the most disaster-proof buildings. The Rubin, meanwhile, wouldn’t physically have the space to serve as a shelter during a flood, as art typically hung in lower-level galleries would be moved into many of the hallways and upper galleries. In the end, its strategies like these that will save the precious artwork. But it’s clear they’ll limit room for, well, people.
In the decade since Hurricane Katrina, tools for tracking and modeling powerful storms have grown in sophistication and detail.


People at DigitalGlobe are fond of saying they've built a "time machine of the planet." And, if we're being metaphorical, that's true: The satellite imaging company has used orbiters to take and store super sharp images of Earth for 17 years. Their eyes have gazed down as trees have disappeared and appeared, floodwaters have flowed in and out, and cities have boomed and busted. But that time-lapse is only useful if someone can make sense of its meaning. Today, that's where companies like Orbital Insight come in, with artificial intelligence that parses the pictures and auto-says things like, "That looks like deforestation," or "There are lots more cars in those parking lots than there were last year. Business be booming."
In the world of satellite imagery, there are a few kinds of players: the picture-takers, the sense-makers, and those who are trying to do both. DigitalGlobe, with its ever-increasing cache of high-def history, is the planet's lead picture-taker; Orbital Insight is one of the frontrunning sense-makers. And today, the two companies announced a new multiyear, multipetabyte partnership. Orbital Insight, in other words, has the keys to the time machine. “We want to let them race,” says Shay Har-Noy, DigitalGlobe's vice president and general manager of platform.
With more images—including more new images more often—Orbital Insight's artificial intelligence will become more insightful. In teaming up, these two companies have ensured that neither of them has to be all things to all people; instead, they can each do what they do best. The insights they produce together can affect economies, militaries, the planet's health, the state of its infrastructure, the way we deal with disaster—and so, in turn, you.
The "why now" of this partnership has a simple answer: The Cloud. For a long time, if someone wanted DigitalGlobe's satellite imagery, the company had to send the huge snapshots over a relatively slow connection, or in the actual mail. The image archive was largely on old-school magnetic tape, spun through cartridges and stored in a library. That made it hard for anyone to get the big picture. “If nobody can access the time machine, it isn't worth very much,” says Har-Noy.
That's how it was when Orbital Insight, then a new company, started requesting pics. In those early days—lo, these three years ago—it could only get so much imagery at once. And its algorithms—which learn as they're exposed to more examples, and which can only give deep context if they have access to deep time—could only learn so much.
That changed in May, when DigitalGlobe put its entire archive, all 100 petabytes of it, onto an unmarked semi-truck and sent it to the cloud-based Amazon Web Services. Now, Orbital Insight can access and analyze the images where they are—on the web—rather than waiting for them to arrive.
Then things really start to happen. Pictures are cool (fact). People like to take them and have them and post them and share them. But when your phone is so full of snaps that you never swipe through all of them, or you can't even remember what that first album was, your collection becomes less useful. Similarly, DigitalGlobe's customers don't necessarily want 25 shots of Beijing taken over five months. They don't want to see anyone's work; they just want the answer to their question.
Orbital Insight is now better primed to give them, using DigitalGlobe's Geospatial Big Data Platform, or GBDX (also a good name for a culty workout system). Analysts can log on, grab images, and write an algorithm to, say, identify and count cars. You train that algorithm with pictures of a bunch of cars in a bunch of conditions, run the algorithm on new images, and sell the result: plain-language statements about a place's busy-ness and what it means for business. It's the same basic process artificial intelligence researchers follow for self-driving car or facial recognition software. “I want to get people to stop working on cat videos and start working on something that matters,” says Har-Noy. There are, he adds, a lot of artificial intelligence experts working on cat videos.
Orbital Insight CEO James Crawford has no such low-key, feline goals. “Our mission is to understand what we're doing on and to the Earth,” he says. Which would have sounded less convincing before this "expanded partnership" with DigitalGlobe. Neither company will talk about just how expanded the partnership is. But Har-Noy will talk qualitatively. “It's not a little bit of content," he says. "It's all you can eat.”
Then he pauses. “It's not quite all you can eat,” he clarifies. “But it's effectively meant to be on that order of magnitude.” DigitalGlobe has even agreed to spy on Orbital Insight's spots of most interest more frequently.
On Orbital Insight's menu are more stores, for car-counting; more oil tanks, to estimate crude supply; more mapping of poverty, so organizations like the World Bank know where to focus; and more tracking of deforestation, so algorithms can tell NGOs where to say, "Stop!"
As Orbital Insight sells the product of its analysis, DigitalGlobe, in return, gets a cut of the company’s revenue. Plus, this bonus: As the Orbital Insights of the world show the world about the world using pictures of the world, people will want more of those pictures. And for that, they will often come to DigitalGlobe, which still has the biggest volume of the highest-quality imagery in the industry.
Still, the partnership demonstrates the strange dynamics between the image-makers and the sense-makers. They can't function without each other, but neither are they exclusive. Orbital Insight isn’t beholden to DigitalGlobe. It will get images from whatever satellite constellations it pleases—from Planet, e-GEOS, Sentinel. “I believe that the industry is best served by avoiding walled gardens,” says Crawford. “Our leaning is to have open competition on both sides.”
And there is. “We're your partners," Har-Noy says he has told Orbital Insight. "But we absolutely want there to be 100 Orbital Insights.”
That's fine, in Crawford's opinion. "We're happy to have the satellite companies sell their imagery to multiple companies," he says. "We happen to think we're better than anybody else, so that doesn't worry us."
In October of 1957, the Soviets kicked off the Space Age when they launched Sputnik, the world's first artificial satellite. How far has the technology of satellites come since then? Let's take a look...


This story originally appeared on Mother Jones and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
When hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria recently pounded Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico, the severity of the storms was often attributed to climate change. “Four Underappreciated Ways That Climate Change Could Make Hurricanes Even Worse,” was the headline in the Washington Post; “Hurricane Harvey’s Size and Impact Points to Climate Change,” noted NPR.
But five years ago, when Superstorm Sandy took its famous left turn to barrel into the East Coast, there was no such certainty. Instead, a debate played out in the media and on Twitter about whether it was fair to blame climate change for the storm’s intensity.
One reason why the conversation has changed is that the science has become much more advanced, especially in the field of attribution science—a relatively new discipline within climate science that looks at how climate change factors into individual weather events. During Hurricane Katrina in 2005, attribution science was in its “infancy,” one scientist told the Post, and even when Sandy hit, the dominant narrative was that climate change doesn’t necessarily affect individual extreme weather events. But today, both the computer models and how scientists have learned to communicate the lessons of climate science have become more sophisticated, and there is a growing body of peer-reviewed published literature on the subject, though not without some controversy.
No one suggests that climate change caused a single weather event, but scientists have grown a lot more comfortable talking about the ways rising temperatures affect extreme weather, creating the right conditions to fuel wetter storms and bigger, more dangerous storm surges.
One issue that’s received more attention is that, in the past, attribution studies started “with the assumption that a given event is ‘natural,’ and the burden of proof is on the claim that the event was caused, exacerbated, or made more likely” by human causes, social scientists Lisa Lloyd and Naomi Oreskes and climate scientist Michael Mann wrote in an article for Climatic Change that was published in 2017. “The null hypothesis is that there is no human contribution.”
But then came Superstorm Sandy. Researchers used data from the storm to try to get a handle on the effects of climate change on extreme weather. One of the major papers was from the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s Kevin Trenberth and two colleagues in 2015. They argued that it was necessary to come up with a new way of approaching attribution. Even though computer models weren’t yet sophisticated enough to account for all the atmospheric dynamics in climate change, it was still possible to account for other dynamics. The oceans are warmer and higher, and the atmosphere holds more moisture than it used to, which is linked to heavier rainfall.
Using Sandy’s weather models, which were very accurate, the researchers could alter the heat and the moisture levels of those models to account for climate change. The conclusion? “We find that indeed Superstorm Sandy is more intense, it is bigger, the rainfall is heavier, and so there’s a climate change component to the strength of that storm,” Trenberth tells Mother Jones. “The environment in which all these storms, including Superstorm Sandy, is occurring is fundamentally different than it used to be.”
That was not the only challenge to conventional thinking. Starting in 2011, a year before Sandy, the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society began publishing an annual state-of-the-science report titled “Attribution of Extreme Weather Events in the Context of Climate Change.” Last year, Heidi Cullen, a chief scientist with Climate Central studying weather variability, wrote that the annual work had the potential to have the same impact on the conversation around weather and global warming as the surgeon general’s 1964 report on smoking and lung cancer.
“Scientists are now able to assess, in some cases within days, whether and how much the risk of such an extreme weather event has changed compared to the past—that is, before heat-trapping greenhouse gases altered our climate,” she wrote in the New York Times.
Even if the science has become more precise in understanding the nuances and connections between climate change and extreme weather, many politicians aren’t listening. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has said that to “have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm, versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced.”
In the decade since Hurricane Katrina, tools for tracking and modeling powerful storms have grown in sophistication and detail.


When someone takes their own life, they leave behind an inheritance of unanswered questions. “Why did they do it?” “Why didn’t we see this coming?” “Why didn’t I help them sooner?” If suicide were easy to diagnose from the outside, it wouldn’t be the public health curse it is today. In 2014 suicide rates surged to a 30-year high in the US, making it now the second leading cause of death among young adults. But what if you could get inside someone’s head, to see when dark thoughts might turn to action?
That’s what scientists are now attempting to do with the help of brain scans and artificial intelligence. In a study published today in Nature Human Behavior, researchers at Carnegie Mellon and the University of Pittsburgh analyzed how suicidal individuals think and feel differently about life and death, by looking at patterns of how their brains light up in an fMRI machine. Then they trained a machine learning algorithm to isolate those signals—a frontal lobe flare at the mention of the word “death,” for example. The computational classifier was able to pick out the suicidal ideators with more than 90 percent accuracy. Furthermore, it was able to distinguish people who had actually attempted self-harm from those who had only thought about it.
Thing is, fMRI studies like this suffer from some well-known shortcomings. The study had a small sample size—34 subjects—so while the algorithm might excel at spotting particular blobs in this set of brains, it’s not obvious it would work as well in a broader population. Another dilemma that bedevils fMRI studies: Just because two things occur at the same time doesn’t prove one causes the other. And then there’s the whole taint of tautology to worry about; scientists decide certain parts of the brain do certain things, then when they observe a hand-picked set of triggers lighting them up, boom, confirmation.
In today’s study, the researchers started with 17 young adults between the ages of 18 and 30 who had recently reported suicidal ideation to their therapists. Then they recruited 17 neurotypical control participants and put them each inside an fMRI scanner. While inside the tube, subjects saw a random series of 30 words. Ten were generally positive, 10 were generally negative, and 10 were specifically associated with death and suicide. Then researchers asked the subjects to think about each word for three seconds as it showed up on a screen in front of them. “What does ‘trouble’ mean for you?” “What about ‘carefree,’ what’s the key concept there?” For each word, the researchers recorded the subjects' cerebral blood flow to find out which parts of their brains seemed to be at work.
Then they took those brain scans and fed them to a machine learning classifier. For each word, they told the algorithm which scans belonged to the suicidal ideators and which belonged to the control group, leaving one person at random out of the training set. Once it got good at telling the two apart, they gave it the left-out person. They did this for all 30 words, each time excluding one test subject. At the end, the classifier could reliably look at a scan and say whether or not that person had thought about killing themselves 91 percent of the time. To see how well it could more generally parse people, they then turned it on 21 additional suicidal ideators, who had been excluded from the main analyses because their brain scans had been too messy. Using the six most discriminating concepts—death, cruelty, trouble, carefree, good, and praise—the classifier spotted the ones who’d thought about suicide 87 percent of the time.
“The fact that it still performed well with noisier data tells us that the model is more broadly generalizable,” says Marcel Just, a psychologist at Carnegie Mellon and lead author on the paper. But he says the approach needs more testing to determine if it could successfully monitor or predict future suicide attempts. Comparing groups of individuals with and without suicide risk isn’t the same thing as holding up a brain scan and assigning its owner a likelihood of going through with it.
But that’s where this is all headed. Right now, the only way doctors can know if a patient is thinking of harming themselves is if they report it to a therapist, and many don’t. In a study of people who committed suicide either in the hospital or immediately following discharge, nearly 80 percent denied thinking about it to the last mental healthcare professional they saw. So there is a real need for better predictive tools. And a real opportunity for AI to fill that void. But probably not with fMRI data.
Artificial Intelligence Is Learning to Predict and Prevent Suicide
The Chatbot Therapist Will See You Now
Virtual Therapists Help Veterans Open Up About PTSD
It’s just not practical. The scans can cost a few thousand dollars, and insurers only cover them if there is a valid clinical reason to do so. That is, if a doctor thinks the only way to diagnose what’s wrong with you is to stick you in a giant magnet. While plenty of neuroscience papers make use of fMRI, in the clinic, the imaging procedure is reserved for very rare cases. Most hospitals aren’t equipped with the machinery, for that very reason. Which is why Just is planning to replicate the study—but with patients wearing electronic sensors on their head while they're in the tube. Electroencephalograms, or EEGs, are one hundredth the price of fMRI equipment. The idea is to tie predictive brain scan signals to corresponding EEG readouts, so that doctors can use the much cheaper test to identify high-risk patients.
Other scientists are already mining more accessible kinds of data to find telltale signatures of impending suicide. Researchers at Florida State and Vanderbilt recently trained a machine learning algorithm on 3,250 electronic medical records for people who had attempted suicide sometime in the last 20 years. It identifies people not by their brain activity patterns, but by things like age, sex, prescriptions, and medical history. And it correctly predicts future suicide attempts about 85 percent of the time.
“As a practicing doctor, none of those things on their own might pop out to me, but the computer can spot which combinations of features are predictive of suicide risk,” says Colin Walsh, an internist and clinical informatician at Vanderbilt who’s working to turn the algorithm he helped develop into a monitoring tool doctors and other healthcare professionals in Nashville can use to keep tabs on patients. “To actually get used it’s got to revolve around data that’s already routinely collected. No new tests. No new imaging studies. We’re looking at medical records because that’s where so much medical care is already delivered.”
And others are mining data even further upstream. Public health researchers are poring over Google searches for evidence of upticks in suicidal ideation. Facebook is scanning users’ wall posts and live videos for combinations of words that suggest a risk of self-harm. The VA is currently piloting an app that passively picks up vocal cues that can signal depression and mood swings. Verily is looking for similar biomarkers in smart watches and blood draws. The goal for all these efforts is to reach people where they are—on the internet and social media—instead of waiting for them to walk through a hospital door or hop in an fMRI tube.
Artificial intelligence is now detecting cancer and robots are doing nursing tasks. But are there risks to handing over elements of our health to machines, no matter how sophisticated?


No two screams sound alike. They can swing in pitch, like the The Wilhelm; blare cacophonous, like The Donald Sutherland; or fire off spasmodically, like (my favorite) The Shelley Duvall. Few vocalizations are as nuanced as the fearful shriek. And yet, no matter the cry in question, you always know a scream when you hear one.
So, then. Whence does the scream derive its unmistakeability? "If you ask someone on the street, they'll tell you a scream is loud and high-pitched," says David Poeppel, a neuroscientist at New York University and the Max Planck Institute in Frankfurt. "Turns out it's neither."
Poeppel would know. In 2015, he and his colleagues set out to distinguish cries of fear from other noises. They began by compiling a database of screams. "We spent many joyful hours scanning the interwebs for weird material from YouTube and movies," Poeppel says, "but then we also brought people into the lab and had them scream."
Then came time to dissect their samples. At first, Poeppel, too, suspected that volume and pitch were what made a scream a scream. But when he and his researchers analyzed the auditory properties of the sounds in their database, they found what they actually shared was an acoustic quality called roughness, a measure of the rate at which a sound fluctuates in volume. Normal human speech, for instance (which the researchers also analyzed), varies in loudness four to five times per second; screams, however, waver between 30 and 150 times per second. That means they occupy a unique place in the soundscape of human vocalizations, which may be why they're so attention-grabbing.
That information in hand, Poeppel had test subjects rank a series of sounds according to how alarming they found them—and the rougher a sound was, the more jarring people regarded it. They found the same to be true of car-, house-, and ambulance-alarms, which share screams' rough acoustic quality.  "There's something shared by these sounds that hijacks your brain and says: Hey, something's up," Poeppel says.
How the Godzilla Team Designed the Monster's Iconic Scream
Cue the Scream: Meet Hollywood's Go-To Shriek
This Is a Golden Age of Low-Budget Horror
To investigate how that hijacking works, the researchers tracked subjects’ brain activity while they listened to rough and neutral noises inside a functional magnetic resonance imaging scanner. To no one's surprise, all the sounds caused blood to flow to the auditory cortex. But rough sounds also sent blood rushing to the amygdalae, two small, almond-shaped lumps of grey matter associated with processing emotional reactions like fear. Intriguing, Poeppel says, but it got weirder: "The amygdala's response wasn't an on-or-off thing. It was a graded response." In other words: The rougher the sound, the more activity it produced. The amygdalae, themselves, behaved like little, scream-sensitive sound meters.
The next step is to analyze other types of screams—from irate shouts to cries of ecstasy—and how they affect perception and brain activity. "I'm comparing three positive valences and three negative," says Planck Institute researcher Natalie Holz, head of this new investigation. "For the negative we of course included fear again, but we're also comparing it with cries of anger and pain. For the positive, we are looking at screams of achievement, pleasant surprise, and sexual pleasure."
I asked Holz and Poeppel to keep me posted on their findings. I'll holler when I hear back.


It's Halloween time. For many, this time of the year means there are lots of cool costumes. For others, it's all about the candy. Now, I'm not a big fan of candy—but I am a big fan of analyzing stuff. So here we go: I'm going to look at the energy density for candy. Sure, I could just look this up—but it's much more fun to determine it for myself.
Let's get started by going to the store. I am going to look at a bunch of different candy options and get some data. Fortunately, food has to contain some basic information on the package: mass, calories, sugars, fats, carbs. I can also get the price.
But what do you do with a lot of data? You start making graphs. I will start off with a plot of calories vs. mass. But wait! I don't want to use calories as a unit of energy because it's a pretty dumb unit. The silliest thing about a calorie is that there are actually two different calories.  In chemistry, there is a calorie where 1 calorie is the energy needed to raise gram of water by one degree Celsius.  Then there is the food calorie which is equivalent to 1000 chemistry calories.  Of course, in both cases people just call them "calories".
For me, I will stick with the joule as a unit of energy.  For the conversion, 1 food calorie is equal to 4,184 joules.
Now for a quick run down to the convenience store to gather candy ... ahem, data. I'm assuming here that you all trick or treat in only the best neighborhoods—you know, the ones that hand out full-sized candy bars. With a look at individual candy bars (and other stuff), I grabbed the mass and energy in 20 different sweet treats, from M&Ms and KitKats and Twix to Sweet Tarts and Skittles and Sour Patch Kids.
Here is a plot of energy in joules vs. mass in kilograms. (You can see the full list of candy the "data" tab if you click on the plot.)
It's not a perfect linear relationship between mass and energy, but it's close—and that relationship gives you a candy's energy density. The energy density is just the energy in the bar divided by the mass of the bar. Technically this energy per mass would be called the "specific energy"—since it is per mass instead of per volume. But it's still the same idea, and I like the term energy density better.
There are some outliers, like that data point far up to the right with almost 4 MJ of energy in 144 grams of candy—a super-high energy density. Can you guess what it is? A Lindor truffle! The one that lies below the line of best fit, just over 1.5 MJ, has a lower than average energy density—that's gummy bears. Oh, one more outlier: Hershey's Cookies & Cream. That has a pretty low energy density too.
What Can You Do With All That Halloween Candy?
The Science Behind All the Best Halloween Party Tricks
Google Tells You How Unoriginal Your Halloween Costume Is
All candies are not equal; some might have more stuff in them that does not add to the total calorie value. But overall, there seems to be fairly nice correlation between candy mass and candy energy. From the graph, candy has an energy density around 22 megajoules per kilogram. But how does this energy density compare with other things? Gasoline has 46.4 megajoules per kilogram and a lithium-ion battery is somewhere under 1 MJ/kg. Where should candy be on this spectrum?  The closest thing I could find is glucose with an a specific energy of 15.5 MJ/kg. That's pretty close to my value of 22 MJ/kg from the data above.
Just for fun, here is one more plot.  What about a plot of energy in the candy vs. the price?
Again, there is a fairly linear relationship between energy and cost. From the graph, I get about 7.5 megajoules per dollar. (If you think Lindor truffles are too expensive, this actually argues in their favor; their cost-to-energy ratio is in line with other "cheaper" candies.) But no matter what you get, it's clear that there is a bunch of energy in candy bars. What are you going to do with all the energy you collect on Halloween?
This year, the Halloween industry is expected to bring in an all-time high of $8.4 billion in revenue. Let's take a look at some of the numbers and see why Halloween is good for the economy!


By any measure, the fires that tore through Northern California were a major disaster. Forty-two people are dead, and 100,000 are displaced. More than 8,400 homes and other buildings were destroyed, more than 160,000 acres burned—and the fires aren’t all out yet.
That devastation leaves behind another potential disaster: ash. No one knows how much. It’ll be full of heavy metals and toxins—no one knows exactly how much, and it depends on what burned and at what temperature. The ash will infiltrate soils, but no one’s really sure how or whether that’ll be a problem. And eventually some of it—maybe a lot—will flow into the regional aquatic ecosystem and ultimately the San Francisco Bay.
That’s the bomb. Here’s the timer: An old, grim joke about California says that the state has only three seasons: summer, fire, and mudslides. Those mudslides happen because of rain; the Santa Ana (or Diablo, if you’d prefer) wind-driven wildfires of autumn give way to a monsoon season that lasts through winter and into spring. The rains of 2016–2017 ended a longstanding drought and broke all kinds of records.
Scientists and environmental health agencies know, mostly, what to expect from ash that comes from burned vegetation. But these fires included something a little new. They burned through the wildland-urban interface and into cities. “For how many structures that were burned in fairly small areas in these fires, I think that's a first-of-its-kind event,” says Geoffrey Plumlee, associate director of environmental health for the US Geological Survey. “The concern is, can they get it cleaned up before the heavy rains come?”
Chemically, ash is fascinating. If the fire that made it burned at lower than about 840 degrees Fahrenheit, it’ll be darker-colored, maybe even black, and mostly organic carbon. At higher temperatures the carbon burns away, leaving inorganic compounds of stuff like calcium, magnesium, and sodium, and it’ll be whiter and fluffier. Even hotter fires, like above 1,100 degrees, leave nothing but oxides. Inside a single fire, combustion happens at different temperatures in different places, and because ash is so light, wind can transport it, so the composition of ash from the same fire can vary.
So depending on how combusted the ash is, it’ll have different chemical compositions. And that’ll mean the ash will mix either better or worse with underlying soil. Water won’t stick to more hydrophobic ash, so rainfall might run off faster, carrying away the surrounding soil as sediment. More hydrophilic ash might mix into the water and wash into nearby streams.
Now, carbon is the backbone element of organic systems. Having some flow off of burned hillsides and into aquatic ecosystems isn’t necessarily bad. It’ll increase what’s called “primary productivity,” allowing algae to reproduce, which means more food for fish. “Naturally occurring, lower-severity fires can have positive impacts,” says Kevin Bladon, a forest ecohydrologist at Oregon State University. The fires free up organic carbon and put nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorous into play. “But the really large, high-severity megafires that we’ve started to observe push the systems in a lot of cases too far.”
That means dangerously large algal blooms, so-called eutrophication that can eat all the dissolved oxygen out of a waterway, making it unlivable for everything else. Sediments freed up by the hydrophobic ash end up making water more turbid—bad for people if that water’s supposed to end up coming out of someone’s tap, and bad for fish because sediment can gum up feeding and breeding grounds.
The problem’s getting more familiar as an after-effect of fires ranging from Australia to Canada to the US. Climate change makes fires and storms more severe. As one of Bladon’s papers notes, the 2002 Hayman Fire in the Colorado Rockies sent 765,000 cubic meters of sediment, ash, and other stuff into Denver’s drinking water reservoirs, and the problems were still there four years later. “We’re anywhere from five years to 100 years in terms of the longevity of effects,” Bladon says. “That really depends on the severity of the fire and our ability to get some vegetation re-established on site.”
It gets even weirder. At high enough combustion temperatures, compounds like potassium carbonate and calcium carbonate turn to oxides. Given the right amount of light rain, calcium oxide—quicklime—slurps carbon dioxide out of the air and forms a crust of essentially cement, limestone. Basically, the ash can pave a forest. “If you had the perfect situation, you can really change a watershed with increased runoff,” says Victoria Balfour, a post-fire hydrologist.
There's more. Combustion byproducts called polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and cancer-causing dioxins can all be part of ash. In older forested land that hasn’t burned in decades, pollution may have deposited heavy metals like copper, lead, aluminum, arsenic, and even mercury onto the plants. When the plants burn, the metals stay behind, or run into waterways. The 2009 Station Fire northeast of Los Angeles increased levels of iron, manganese, and mercury in nearby streams … and the storms that followed soon after brought elevated levels of copper, lead, nickel, and selenium.
What makes these latest Northern California fires unique, though, is that they burned not just forest wildland but also cities. And the built environment burns differently. It gets hotter, and it leaves behind different remains. “All of a sudden you’ve got a lot of impervious surfaces,” Bladon says. “Water hits it and flows over. If there are burned materials sitting on the roads, that’s going to move very rapidly into waterways. We have no handle on that at all.” Ash science isn’t much more than a decade old; understanding urban ash science has never really been a necessity—but now megafires are coming to cities.
What’s in that ash depends on how old the buildings are. Pre-1980, the paint will be full of lead. Even more recently, pressure-treated lumber used in landscaping was full of chromate copper arsenate, which leaches arsenic and hexavalent chromium—bad for fish and other living things. “On the good side, there are probably fewer lead phosphor TV screens. There’s a lot more flat screens,” Plumlee says. "There are more LED light bulbs and hopefully fewer fluorescent and compact-fluorescent, which have a concern with mercury. Copper and zinc are also commonly used in building materials.”
All of which means the real trick in Northern California will be debris cleanup. The US Environmental Protection Agency, California’s EPA, the Army Corps of Engineers, and other agencies and NGOs are all onsite—spinning up as a Watershed Protection Taskforce. They’re evaluating the debris and getting it ready for collection—a job done most safely wearing gloves, a Tyvek bodysuit, and an N95 respirator.
Drinking water for the region hasn’t been compromised—it comes from farther north than the fires—but the Napa and Sonoma Rivers (and the associated stream systems) empty straight into San Francisco Bay. “We cherish our creeks and streams, and there’s uncertainty in regards to what may be in all this ash,” says Bennett Horenstein, director of Santa Rosa Water. “So there’s a lot of activity to do everything we can in a thoughtful and safe way to protect the ecosystem.”
The Napa Fire Is a Perfectly Normal Apocalypse
In Cities, It's the Smoke, Not the Fire, That Will Get You
How Climate Change and 'Smoke Taint' Could Kill Napa Wine
Stormwater typically doesn’t get treated, so the inlets in Santa Rosa have gotten barrier protection installed. “We’re all recognizing that this disaster was of such magnitude, the organization is unfolding,” Horenstein says. “But it does seem to be unfolding in a thoughtful, structured way.”
The Regional Monitoring Program for Water Quality already watches what’s in the San Francisco Bay besides water. Some of its scientists now have a proposal to monitor the Napa River for what water watchdogs call “contaminants of emerging concern.” The field is new enough that they’re not even sure what they’re looking for yet—they’re going to use “non-targeted analysis” to look for anything unexpected. The San Francisco Estuary Institute already monitors dioxins, PAHs, metals, and other stuff in the bay, but only annually or semiannually.
That’s probably not fast enough. The ash is on the ground. “Getting through the entire area will take some time,” Horenstein says, “and we’re approaching the wet-weather season. There’s a small storm forecast for next week.” ‘Tis, after all, the season.
NASA started a blaze aboard the unmanned Orbital ATK Cygnus cargo vehicle. It’s the Spacecraft Fire Experiment. Seriously, that’s exactly what NASA is calling it.


It’s hard to measure water from a fire hose while it’s hitting you in the face. In a sense, that’s the challenge of analyzing streaming data, which comes at us in a torrent and never lets up. If you’re on Twitter watching tweets go by, you might like to declare a brief pause, so you can figure out what’s trending. That’s not feasible, though, so instead you need to find a way to tally hashtags on the fly.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Computer programs that perform these kinds of on-the-go calculations are called streaming algorithms. Because data comes at them continuously, and in such volume, they try to record the essence of what they’ve seen while strategically forgetting the rest. For more than 30 years computer scientists have worked to build a better streaming algorithm. Last fall a team of researchers invented one that is just about perfect.
“We developed a new algorithm that is simultaneously the best” on every performance dimension, said Jelani Nelson, a computer scientist at Harvard University and a co-author of the work with Kasper Green Larsen of Aarhus University in Denmark, Huy Nguyen of Northeastern University and Mikkel Thorup of the University of Copenhagen.
This best-in-class streaming algorithm works by remembering just enough of what it’s seen to tell you what it’s seen most frequently. It suggests that compromises that seemed intrinsic to the analysis of streaming data are not actually necessary. It also points the way forward to a new era of strategic forgetting.
Streaming algorithms are helpful in any situation where you’re monitoring a database that’s being updated continuously. This could be AT&T keeping tabs on data packets or Google charting the never-ending flow of search queries. In these situations it’s useful, even necessary, to have a method for answering real-time questions about the data without re-examining or even remembering every piece of data you’ve ever seen.
Here’s a simple example. Imagine you have a continuous stream of numbers and you want to know the sum of all the numbers you’ve seen so far. In this case it’s obvious that instead of remembering every number, you can get by with remembering just one: the running sum.
The challenge gets harder, though, when the questions you want to ask about your data get more complicated. Imagine that instead of calculating the sum, you want to be able to answer the following question: Which numbers have appeared most frequently? It’s less obvious what kind of shortcut you could use to keep an answer at the ready.
This particular puzzle is known as the “frequent items” or “heavy hitters” problem. The first algorithm to solve it was developed in the early 1980s by David Gries of Cornell University and Jayadev Misra of the University of Texas, Austin. Their program was effective in a number of ways, but it couldn’t handle what’s called “change detection.” It could tell you the most frequently searched terms, but not which terms are trending. In Google’s case, it could identify “Wikipedia” as an ever-popular search term, but it couldn’t find the spike in searches that accompany a major event such as Hurricane Irma.
“It’s a coding problem—you’re encoding information down to compact summary and trying to extract information that lets you recover what was put in initially,” said Graham Cormode, a computer scientist at the University of Warwick.
Over the next 30-plus years, Cormode and other computer scientists improved Gries and Misra’s algorithm. Some of the new algorithms were able to detect trending terms, for example, while others were able to work with a more fine-grained definition of what it means for a term to be frequent. All those algorithms made trade-offs, like sacrificing speed for accuracy or memory consumption for reliability.
Most of these efforts relied on an index. Imagine, for example, you are trying to identify frequent search terms. One way to do it would be to assign a number to every word in the English language and then pair that number with a second number that keeps track of how many times that word has been searched. Maybe “aardvark” gets indexed as word number 17 and appears in your database as (17, 9), meaning word number 17 has been searched nine times. This approach comes closer to putting the most frequent items at your fingertips, since at any given moment, you know exactly how many times each word has been searched.
Still, it has drawbacks—namely that it takes a lot of time for an algorithm to comb through the hundreds of thousands of words in the English language.
But what if there were only 100 words in the dictionary? Then “looping over every word in the dictionary wouldn’t take that long,” Nelson said.
Alas, the number of words in the dictionary is what it is. Unless, as the authors of the new algorithm discovered, you can break the big dictionary into smaller dictionaries and find a clever way to put it back together.
Small numbers are easier to keep track of than big numbers.
Imagine, for example, that you’re monitoring a stream of numbers between zero and 50,000,000 (a task similar to logging internet users by their IP addresses). You could keep track of the numbers using a 50,000,000-term index, but it’s hard to work with an index that size. A better way is to think of each eight-digit number as four two-digit numbers linked together.
Say you see the number 12,345,678. One memory-efficient way to remember it is to break it into four two-digit blocks: 12, 34, 56, 78. Then you can send each block to a sub-algorithm that calculates item frequencies: 12 goes to copy one of the algorithm, 34 goes to copy two, 56 goes to copy three, and 78 goes to copy four.
Each sub-algorithm maintains its own index of what it’s seen, but since each version never sees anything bigger than a two-digit number, each index only runs from 0 to 99.
An important feature of this splitting is that if the big number—12,345,678—appears frequently in your overall data stream, so will its two-digit components. When you ask each sub-algorithm to identify the numbers it has seen the most, copy one will spit out 12, copy two will spit out 34, and so on. You’ll be able to find the most frequent members of a huge list just by looking for the frequent items in four much shorter lists.
“Instead of spending 50 million units of time looping over the entire universe, you only have four algorithms spending 100 units of time,” Nelson said.
The main problem with this divide-and-conquer strategy is that while it’s easy to split a big number into small numbers, the reverse is trickier—it’s hard to fish out the right small numbers to recombine to give you the right big number.
Imagine, for example, that your data stream frequently includes two numbers that have some digits in common: 12,345,678 and 12,999,999. Both start with 12. Your algorithm splits each number into four smaller numbers, then sends each to a sub-algorithm. Later, you ask each sub-algorithm, “Which numbers have you seen most frequently?” Copy one is going to say, “I’ve seen a lot of the number 12.” An algorithm that’s trying to identify which eight-digit numbers it’s seen most frequently can’t tell if all these 12s belong to one eight-digit number or, as in this case, to two different numbers.
Computer Scientists Close In on Perfect, Hack-Proof Code
Ecologists Are Drowning in Sea of Data. These Tools Could Help
Landmark Algorithm Breaks 30-Year Impasse
“The challenge is to figure out which two-digit blocks to concatenate with which other two-digit blocks,” Nelson said.
The authors of the new work solve this dilemma by packaging each two-digit block with a little tag that doesn’t take up much memory but still allows the algorithm to put the two-digit pieces back together in the right way.
To see one simple approach to how the tagging might work, start with 12,345,678 and split it into two-digit blocks. But this time, before you send each block to its respective sub-algorithm, package the block with a pair of unique identifying numbers that can be used to put the blocks back together. The first of these tags serves as the block’s name, the second as a link. In this way, 12,345,678 becomes:
12, 0, 1     /	34, 1, 2    /	 56, 2, 3	    /	  78, 3, 4
Here the number 12 has the name “0” and gets linked to the number named “1.” The number 34 has the name “1” and gets linked to the number named “2.” And so on.
Now when the sub-algorithms return the two-digit blocks they’ve seen most frequently, 12 goes looking for a number tagged with “1” and finds 34, then 34 goes looking for a number tagged with “2” and finds 56, and 56 goes looking for a number tagged with “3” and finds 78.
In this way, you can think of the two-digit blocks as links in a chain, with the links held together by these extra tagging numbers.
The problem with chains, of course, is that they’re only as strong as their weakest link. And these chains are almost guaranteed to break.
No algorithm works perfectly every time you run it—even the best ones misfire some small percentage of the time. In the example we’ve been using, a misfire could mean that the second two-digit block, 34, gets assigned an incorrect tag, and as a result, when it goes looking for the block it’s supposed to be joined to, it doesn’t have the information it needs to find 56. And once one link in the chain fails, the entire effort falls apart.
To avoid this problem, the researchers use what’s called an “expander graph.” In an expander graph, each two-digit block forms a point. Points get connected by lines (according to the tagging process described above) to form a cluster. The important feature of an expander graph is that instead of merely connecting each point with its adjoining blocks, you connect each two-digit block with multiple other blocks. For example, with 12,345,678, you connect 12 with 34 but also with 56, so that you can still tell that 12 and 56 belong in the same number even if the link between 12 and 34 fails.
An expander graph doesn’t always come out perfectly. Sometimes it’ll fail to link two blocks that should be linked. Or it’ll link two blocks that don’t belong together. To counteract this tendency, the researchers developed the final step of their algorithm: a “cluster-preserving” sub-algorithm that can survey an expander graph and accurately determine which points are meant to be clustered together and which aren’t, even when some lines are missing and false ones have been added.
“This guarantees I can recover something that looks like the original clusters,” Thorup said.
And while Twitter isn’t going to plug in the expander sketch tomorrow, the techniques underlying it are applicable to a far wider range of computer science problems than tallying tweets. The algorithm also proves that certain sacrifices that previously seemed necessary to answer the frequent-items problem don’t need to be made. Previous algorithms always gave up something — they were accurate but memory-intensive, or fast but unable to determine which frequent items were trending. This new work shows that given the right way of encoding a lot of information, you can end up with the best of all possible worlds: You can store your frequent items and recall them, too.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Agent Topple reveals a few tricks of the pre-digital trade when Winters attempts to explain to him how computers work. Agent Topple is Not Impressed.


In 1985, when Carl Sagan was writing the novel Contact, he needed to quickly transport his protagonist Dr. Ellie Arroway from Earth to the star Vega. He had her enter a black hole and exit light-years away, but he didn’t know if this made any sense. The Cornell University astrophysicist and television star consulted his friend Kip Thorne, a black hole expert at the California Institute of Technology (who won a Nobel Prize earlier this month). Thorne knew that Arroway couldn’t get to Vega via a black hole, which is thought to trap and destroy anything that falls in. But it occurred to him that she might make use of another kind of hole consistent with Albert Einstein’s general theory of relativity: a tunnel or “wormhole” connecting distant locations in space-time.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
While the simplest theoretical wormholes immediately collapse and disappear before anything can get through, Thorne wondered whether it might be possible for an “infinitely advanced” sci-fi civilization to stabilize a wormhole long enough for something or someone to traverse it. He figured out that such a civilization could in fact line the throat of a wormhole with “exotic material” that counteracts its tendency to collapse. The material would possess negative energy, which would deflect radiation and repulse space-time apart from itself. Sagan used the trick in Contact, attributing the invention of the exotic material to an earlier, lost civilization to avoid getting into particulars. Meanwhile, those particulars enthralled Thorne, his students and many other physicists, who spent years exploring traversable wormholes and their theoretical implications. They discovered that these wormholes can serve as time machines, invoking time-travel paradoxes—evidence that exotic material is forbidden in nature.
Now, decades later, a new species of traversable wormhole has emerged, free of exotic material and full of potential for helping physicists resolve a baffling paradox about black holes. This paradox is the very problem that plagued the early draft of Contact and led Thorne to contemplate traversable wormholes in the first place; namely, that things that fall into black holes seem to vanish without a trace. This total erasure of information breaks the rules of quantum mechanics, and it so puzzles experts that in recent years, some have argued that black hole interiors don’t really exist—that space and time strangely end at their horizons.
The flurry of findings started last year with a paper that reported the first traversable wormhole that doesn’t require the insertion of exotic material to stay open. Instead, according to Ping Gao and Daniel Jafferis of Harvard University and Aron Wall of Stanford University, the repulsive negative energy in the wormhole’s throat can be generated from the outside by a special quantum connection between the pair of black holes that form the wormhole’s two mouths. When the black holes are connected in the right way, something tossed into one will shimmy along the wormhole and, following certain events in the outside universe, exit the second. Remarkably, Gao, Jafferis and Wall noticed that their scenario is mathematically equivalent to a process called quantum teleportation, which is key to quantum cryptography and can be demonstrated in laboratory experiments.
John Preskill, a black hole and quantum gravity expert at Caltech, says the new traversable wormhole comes as a surprise, with implications for the black hole information paradox and black hole interiors. “What I really like,” he said, “is that an observer can enter the black hole and then escape to tell about what she saw.” This suggests that black hole interiors really exist, he explained, and that what goes in must come out.
The new wormhole work began in 2013, when Jafferis attended an intriguing talk at the Strings conference in South Korea. The speaker, Juan Maldacena, a professor of physics at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, had recently concluded, based on various hints and arguments, that “ER = EPR.” That is, wormholes between distant points in space-time, the simplest of which are called Einstein-Rosen or “ER” bridges, are equivalent (albeit in some ill-defined way) to entangled quantum particles, also known as Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen or “EPR” pairs. The ER = EPR conjecture, posed by Maldacena and Leonard Susskind of Stanford, was an attempt to solve the modern incarnation of the infamous black hole information paradox by tying space-time geometry, governed by general relativity, to the instantaneous quantum connections between far-apart particles that Einstein called “spooky action at a distance.”
The paradox has loomed since 1974, when the British physicist Stephen Hawking determined that black holes evaporate—slowly giving off heat in the form of particles now known as “Hawking radiation.” Hawking calculated that this heat is completely random; it contains no information about the black hole’s contents. As the black hole blinks out of existence, so does the universe’s record of everything that went inside. This violates a principle called “unitarity,” the backbone of quantum theory, which holds that as particles interact, information about them is never lost, only scrambled, so that if you reversed the arrow of time in the universe’s quantum evolution, you’d see things unscramble into an exact re-creation of the past.
Almost everyone believes in unitarity, which means information must escape black holes—but how? In the last five years, some theorists, most notably Joseph Polchinski of the University of California, Santa Barbara, have argued that black holes are empty shells with no interiors at all—that Ellie Arroway, upon hitting a black hole’s event horizon, would fizzle on a “firewall” and radiate out again.
Many theorists believe in black hole interiors (and gentler transitions across their horizons), but in order to understand them, they must discover the fate of information that falls inside. This is critical to building a working quantum theory of gravity, the long-sought union of the quantum and space-time descriptions of nature that comes into sharpest relief in black hole interiors, where extreme gravity acts on a quantum scale.
The quantum gravity connection is what drew Maldacena, and later Jafferis, to the ER = EPR idea, and to wormholes. The implied relationship between tunnels in space-time and quantum entanglement posed by ER = EPR resonated with a popular recent belief that space is essentially stitched into existence by quantum entanglement. It seemed that wormholes had a role to play in stitching together space-time and in letting black hole information worm its way out of black holes—but how might this work? When Jafferis heard Maldacena talk about his cryptic equation and the evidence for it, he was aware that a standard ER wormhole is unstable and non-traversable. But he wondered what Maldacena’s duality would mean for a traversable wormhole like the ones Thorne and others played around with decades ago. Three years after the South Korea talk, Jafferis and his collaborators Gao and Wall presented their answer. The work extends the ER = EPR idea by equating, not a standard wormhole and a pair of entangled particles, but a traversable wormhole and quantum teleportation: a protocol discovered in 1993 that allows a quantum system to disappear and reappear unscathed somewhere else.
When Maldacena read Gao, Jafferis and Wall’s paper, “I viewed it as a really nice idea, one of these ideas that after someone tells you, it’s obvious,” he said. Maldacena and two collaborators, Douglas Stanford and Zhenbin Yang, immediately began exploring the new wormhole’s ramifications for the black hole information paradox; their paper appeared in April. Susskind and Ying Zhao of Stanford followed this with a paper about wormhole teleportation in July. The wormhole “gives an interesting geometric picture for how teleportation happens,” Maldacena said. “The message actually goes through the wormhole.”
In their paper, “Diving Into Traversable Wormholes,” published in Fortschritte der Physik, Maldacena, Stanford and Yang consider a wormhole of the new kind that connects two black holes: a parent black hole and a daughter one formed from half of the Hawking radiation given off by the parent as it evaporates. The two systems are as entangled as they can be. Here, the fate of the older black hole’s information is clear: It worms its way out of the daughter black hole.
During an interview this month in his tranquil office at the IAS, Maldacena, a reserved Argentinian-American with a track record of influential insights, described his radical musings. On the right side of a chalk-dusty blackboard, Maldacena drew a faint picture of two black holes connected by the new traversable wormhole. On the left, he sketched a quantum teleportation experiment, performed by the famous fictional experimenters Alice and Bob, who are in possession of entangled quantum particles a and b, respectively. Say Alice wants to teleport a qubit q to Bob. She prepares a combined state of q and a, measures that combined state (reducing it to a pair of classical bits, 1 or 0), and sends the result of this measurement to Bob. He can then use this as a key for operating on b in a way that re-creates the state q. Voila, a unit of quantum information has teleported from one place to the other.
Maldacena turned to the right side of the blackboard. “You can do operations with a pair of black holes that are morally equivalent to what I discussed [about quantum teleportation]. And in that picture, this message really goes through the wormhole.”
Say Alice throws qubit q into black hole A. She then measures a particle of its Hawking radiation, a, and transmits the result of the measurement through the external universe to Bob, who can use this knowledge to operate on b, a Hawking particle coming out of black hole B. Bob’s operation reconstructs q, which appears to pop out of B, a perfect match for the particle that fell into A. This is why some physicists are excited: Gao, Jafferis and Wall’s wormhole allows information to be recovered from black holes. In their paper, they set up their wormhole in a negatively curved space-time geometry that often serves as a useful, if unrealistic, playground for quantum gravity theorists. However, their wormhole idea seems to extend to the real world as long as two black holes are coupled in the right way: “They have to be causally connected and then the nature of the interaction that we took is the simplest thing you can imagine,” Jafferis explained. If you allow the Hawking radiation from one of the black holes to fall into the other, the two black holes become entangled, and the quantum information that falls into one can exit the other.
The quantum-teleportation format precludes using these traversable wormholes as time machines. Anything that goes through the wormhole has to wait for Alice’s message to travel to Bob in the outside universe before it can exit Bob’s black hole, so the wormhole doesn’t offer any superluminal boost that could be exploited for time travel. It seems traversable wormholes might be permitted in nature as long as they offer no speed advantage. “Traversable wormholes are like getting a bank loan,” Gao, Jafferis and Wall wrote in their paper: “You can only get one if you are rich enough not to need it.”
While traversable wormholes won’t revolutionize space travel, according to Preskill the new wormhole discovery provides “a promising resolution” to the black hole firewall question by suggesting that there is no firewall at black hole horizons. Preskill said the discovery rescues “what we call ‘black hole complementarity,’ which means that the interior and exterior of the black hole are not really two different systems but rather two very different, complementary ways of looking at the same system.” If complementarity holds, as is widely assumed, then in passing across a black hole horizon from one realm to the other, Contact’s Ellie Arroway wouldn’t notice anything strange. This seems more likely if, under certain conditions, she could even slide all the way through a Gao-Jafferis-Wall wormhole.
The wormhole also safeguards unitarity—the principle that information is never lost—at least for the entangled black holes being studied. Whatever falls into one black hole eventually exits the other as Hawking radiation, Preskill said, which “can be thought of as in some sense a very scrambled copy of the black hole interior.”
Taking the findings to their logical conclusion, Preskill thinks it ought to be possible (at least for an infinitely advanced civilization) to influence the interior of one of these black holes by manipulating its radiation. This “sounds crazy,” he wrote in an email, but it “might make sense if we can think of the radiation, which is entangled with the black hole—EPR—as being connected to the black hole interior by wormholes— ER. Then tickling the radiation can send a message which can be read from inside the black hole!” He added, “We still have a ways to go, though, before we can flesh out this picture in more detail.”
Indeed, obstacles remain in the quest to generalize the new wormhole findings to a statement about the fate of all quantum information, or the meaning of ER = EPR.
In Maldacena and Susskind’s paper proposing ER = EPR, they included a sketch that’s become known as the “octopus”: a black hole with tentacle-like wormholes leading to distant Hawking particles that have evaporated out of it. The authors explained that the sketch illustrates “the entanglement pattern between the black hole and the Hawking radiation. We expect that this entanglement leads to the interior geometry of the black hole.”
But according to Matt Visser, a mathematician and general-relativity expert at Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand who has studied wormholes since the 1990s, the most literal reading of the octopus picture doesn’t work. The throats of wormholes formed from single Hawking particles would be so thin that qubits could never fit through. “A traversable wormhole throat is ‘transparent’ only to wave packets with size smaller than the throat radius,” Visser explained. “Big wave packets will simply bounce off any small wormhole throat without crossing to the other side.”
The Fuzzball Fix for a Black Hole Paradox
Quantum Links in Time and Space May Form the Universe's Foundation
What Happens When You Mix Thermodynamics and the Quantum World? A Revolution
Stanford, who co-wrote the recent paper with Maldacena and Yang, acknowledged that this is a problem with the simplest interpretation of the ER = EPR idea, in which each particle of Hawking radiation has its own tentacle-like wormhole. However, a more speculative interpretation of ER = EPR that he and others have in mind does not suffer from this failing. “The idea is that in order to recover the information from the Hawking radiation using this traversable wormhole,” Stanford said, one has to “gather the Hawking radiation together and act on it in a complicated way.” This complicated collective measurement reveals information about the particles that fell in; it has the effect, he said, of “creating a large, traversable wormhole out of the small and unhelpful octopus tentacles. The information would then propagate through this large wormhole.” Maldacena added that, simply put, the theory of quantum gravity might have a new, generalized notion of geometry for which ER equals EPR. “We think quantum gravity should obey this principle,” he said. “We view it more as a guide to the theory.”
In his 1994 popular science book, Black Holes and Time Warps, Kip Thorne celebrated the style of reasoning involved in wormhole research. “No type of thought experiment pushes the laws of physics harder than the type triggered by Carl Sagan’s phone call to me,” he wrote; “thought experiments that ask, ‘What things do the laws of physics permit an infinitely advanced civilization to do, and what things do the laws forbid?’”
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Inside a simulation of the universe's particle accelerator with WIRED Science writer Nick Stockton.


The moons of the solar system got a bit greedy during this week’s space photo round-up. Our own moon was captured blocking out the sun for 45 minutes, making for an epic lunar photobomb. A bit further out in the solar system, Jupiter showed a dark blemish on its surface, a shadow cast by its tiny moon Amalthea. The small Jovian moon was captured by the Juno spacecraft in orbit around the banded gas giant. Jupiter’s moons help feed its faint rings, and Amalthea is no exception. This irregularly shaped moon loses material, providing dust and particles that form the Amalthea Gossamer Ring.
Planets have other kinds of pseudo-moons, too. Mars has Phobos and Deimos, of course, but it's also orbited by many artificial satellites–like NASA’s Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter. This rockstar satellite snapped a bizarre and fascinating photo of Hellas Planitia basin with some very strange features. These deep zigzagging lines are called linear gullies, likely formed by thawing blocks of carbon dioxide ice. Scientists are still unsure about the process, but regardless, the view from above is pretty cool.
Still need to space out? There's more, check out the full collection of cosmic photos here.


This story originally appeared on Citylab and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
Last winter, teams of researchers in three US cities donned goggles, gloves, and respirators, tore into bags of other people’s household garbage, and then pawed though the contents. Separating slimy banana peels from clumps of coffee grounds was dirty work, but it had a laudable goal: trying to get a handle on how much food waste could have been consumed or diverted before winding its way into the waste stream with a one-way ticket to the dump.
The problems associated with urban food waste are no mystery. Proof of the problem is everywhere, in overflowing garbage bins and grime-slicked compost caddies. Food scraps contribute to the already sizable piles of refuse that cities must haul to landfills; shuttling edible castoffs to people in need requires labyrinthine routes and mind-boggling logistics; and gases released by decomposing leftovers detract from cities’ work toward reining in emissions. But there’s surprisingly little hard data about who’s wasting what, and where, which makes it harder for cities to address the issue.
To sniff out specifics, the engineering company Tetra Tech (in collaboration with the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Rockefeller Foundation) recruited more than 1,151 residents in Denver, New York, and Nashville. Of these, 631 supplied qualitative info in the form of kitchen diaries noting what they tossed and why. Researchers also inspected the contents of 277 residential trash bins, and 145 containers of commercial or industrial garbage.
Now, the team has digested the data in a pair of reports, released Wednesday, that take stock of how food waste shakes out in these cities, and what they can do to clean up their act.
The researchers divided trashed food into three categories: stuff that is typically edible, questionably edible (including peels and cores), and inedible (such as pits, bones, and egg shells). They then tallied up findings from the bin digs and kitchen diaries to gauge how much is going to waste in each city. In Denver and New York, residents trashed the majority of the wasted food; in Nashville, the residential and restaurant sectors were neck and neck.
Denverites trashed the most edible food—about 7.5 pounds per household each week—followed by New York (5.4 pounds) and then Nashville (4.6 pounds). Overall, these sums are lower than previous estimates from ReFED, a consortium of food-centric organizations, which placed the weekly figure around 11.6 pounds per household.
Across all three cities, coffee and grounds were the goods most often pitched in the trash, trailed by bananas (in Nashville and New York) and chicken (in Denver). Apples, bread, oranges, and potatoes also topped the list, as did discarded dairy products.
In the accompanying kitchen diaries, respondents described why they opted to jettison these scraps. Forty-four percent of participants said they were getting rid of inedible portions; 20 percent reported moldy or spoiled food, and 11 percent indicated they weren’t interested in the leftovers. Only 4 percent of residents noted that they’d discarded food because it was past the date printed on the label, though perceived confusion over inscrutable labeling practices has spurred legislation to standardize and streamline “best by” and “use by” language.
The reports also qualified attitudes toward waste. Most respondents preferred fruit without blemishes; still, more than half of the respondents said they “always” or “mostly” excised bruised portions and salvaged the rest of the fruit or vegetable. And though some indicated that squandering food felt morally icky, 58 percent of the respondents indicated less guilt about wasting food if they knew it was going to be composted.
Judging by the kitchen diaries, though, most of the trashed food didn’t end up in the compost bin—53 percent went straight to the trash. In New York, which has a comparatively robust organics scheme, 37 percent of the self-reported discards ended up in the green bin. In Denver and Nashville, this figure was 24 percent and 28 percent, respectively, though respondents in Denver reported the highest rate of compost participation.
The researchers flag that discrepancy, among other sticking points: At least in New York City, they found that participating in a compost program led to more overall waste, compared with families whose garbage all goes into a single stream. In other words: Compost-happy residents were disposing of more total scraps than residents who just threw the whole lot in the trash. To counter that trend, the report’s authors recommend reminding consumers that “preventing food waste is preferable to composting it.”
The US Throws Away as Much as Half Its Food Produce
These Tasty, Waste-Gobbling Maggots Could Save the World
A Startup Just Got $30 Million to Shake Up the Garbage Industry
All this surplus food could be put to better use. “An outrageous amount of food is wasted in our cities, yet at the same time many residents are in need,” said Dana Gunders, a senior scientist at NRDC, in a statement. The other new report documents the ways that cities can push back against hunger and food insecurity, which continue to nag cities, suburbs, and rural regions despite the excess of edible food. Some 13.4 percent of Tennessee residents are food insecure, according to a 2016 report from the USDA. Across New York State, that figure is 12.5 percent; in Colorado, 10.3 percent of citizens struggle to reliably access nutritious food.
The NRDC researchers compared current food rescue rates in the three cities to the maximum volume that could be intercepted, and found that it’s feasible to recoup tens of thousands of tons of packaged, raw, or prepared items across the board, from grocery stores, restaurants, caterers, coffee shops, schools, and more. In Denver, where 2,539 tons of food is currently rescued along the food chain, the researchers pinpoint an additional untapped potential of 4,232 tons—enough for about 7.1 million meals. These could go a long way in a city where nearly about 13 percent of residents lack reliable access to nutritious food.
But that goal is a lofty one: It assumes that all of the local businesses and institutions will buy in. The researchers also spooled up a less ambitious projection, in which participation rates are more modestly scaled up from their current numbers. That model would still translate to 901 tons of food, or 1.5 million meals—but it could require an infusion of $2 million to cover the cost of vehicles and storage space to accommodate the haul.
More than a prescription, the research is a starting point. “As more research in this vein is conducted, it will be easier to identify trends and potentially aggregate data for better extrapolation, better intervention design—and eventually, less wasted food,” the authors note. Urban areas can carry this charge, Gunders told me last year. “Cities can be setting targets in their community, and elevating the profile of the issue and raising awareness,” she said. “That’s a nice foundation. They can take a look at their waste policies.”
Cities can also redesign trash management from the ground up. As I wrote last week, a band of architects in New York, backed by the Center for Architecture and the Rockefeller Foundation, laid out a series of design guidelines that approach trash as a design issue, and turn to clever planning and ingenious interiors to help alleviate the burden while getting the city closer to Mayor Bill de Blasio’s goal of schlepping zero waste to landfills by 2030. That call for better engineering is echoed in some of the qualitative feedback in the NRDC reports. When asked what sorts of steps they hope their cities will take, most respondents gestured toward expanded compost programs or beefed-up public service campaigns.
Others asked for more options, arrayed in a smarter and more durable way. “Make it easier to compost and recycle,” one participant wrote. “Like many NYCers, I live in a small place and mice and cockroaches come up often. That means we keep our trash on a specific counter. Since we have to already split up our paper recycling, and have trash, there is no room for four bins!!! When we lived in San Francisco and we could throw all recycling in one bin, we composted a lot more often.”
Far from being a luxury, “design thinking is something people should demand from cities, architects, and supers,” said Benjamin Prosky, executive director of the Center for Architecture, at an event announcing the waste-reduction blueprint. Collecting, digesting, and acting upon ever-more-precise data can only sharpen its focus and impact.
Artificial intelligence and advanced automation are everywhere including our farm fields and kitchens. How will robots change the way we grow, harvest and cook our food?


Late at night, I tend to flip through the channels just to see what's up. If there's a good movie on, I might watch part of it—and recently, I stumbled on Iron Man 3. I know what you're gonna say—that's a terrible superhero movie. But I disagree. Fantastic Four, now that's a terrible superhero movie. Iron Man 3 wasn't so bad. Especially not that part where Tony Stark has to go to the store and MacGyver his way into a temporary suit.
However, I did notice something annoying in a scene near the end. Iron Man needs to recharge his suit, and he improvises by connecting two cables (one red and one black) from a car battery to his suit. When he is mostly charged up, he pulls off the cables—one at a time. First he pulls the red cable off and it creates a slight sparking effect. Right after that he pulls off the black cable and it also makes a spark. See the mistake? One of the cables could easily make a spark, but not both.
But why? Of course that is the question. And now for the answer.
You can get a spark when air changes from an electrical insulator into an electrical conductor.  This happens not at a certain electric potential difference (voltage) but at a certain electric field strength. Let me explain the difference with an example.
Suppose you have two wires connected to a 9 volt battery with the free ends of the wires held just 1 centimeter apart.  The electric potential difference between these two ends is 9 volts. That's probably not a huge surprise. If I move the wires closer together, they still make a 9 volt potential. However, the electric field depends on both the potential and the distance. As I move the wires closer together, the electric field gets stronger between the two wires. The electric field is the gradient of the electric potential and measured in units of volts/meter.
I know you didn't like that example, so how about an analogy? Instead of electric stuff, I have a hill. The height of the hill is like the change in electric potential. The slope of the hill at some point would be the electric field. So now I have a 9 meter tall hill (instead of 9 volts). As the bottom and top of the hill move closer together (horizontally) the slope gets steeper. That's just like the difference between electric potential difference and the electric field. Bonus: Note the importance of calling the electric potential a "difference" or "change in"—just like a hill, the change in height is the key, not just the top of the hill.
Now back to sparks.  A spark is created by a high electric field, not a high voltage. At about 3 x 106 Volts/meter, you get a spark in air. With a 9 volt battery (and assuming a constant electric field for simplicity), you would need two wires to get 3 micrometers apart to cause a spark. That's one super tiny spark.
But there are many cases where a spark is created even with low voltage.  In order to understand this, let's first look at a simple circuit—the simplest circuit you could ever imagine.  It consists of a battery and a wire.  That's it.  Here is what that might actually look like.
Yes, that is just a battery and a wire. OK, technically there are two rare earth magnets in there too—they just are an easy way to connect the wire to the battery. And although this is a simple circuit, it's not very useful. In fact, it would be considered a short circuit since there isn't really anything in the path. Without a resistor or anything, the current will get higher than it normally would. This would make the wire get hot—not too crazy hot with just a D-cell battery, but still hot.
What happens when I disconnect one of the wires?  Let me show you.
That wasn't very exciting.
Here is another circuit. Watch closely as I connect the final cable to the battery.
It's dark so you can see better, but notice that there is a spark both when I connect the battery and when it is disconnected. Here is a picture of the whole circuit.
There are two significant differences with this second circuit.  First, I am using two 9 volt batteries instead of one D-cell battery (at just 1.5 volts). Second, I have another device in this circuit—a coil of wire (on the left). We call this an inductor.
There is a pretty cool relationship between electric and magnetic fields and that's the basis of the inductor. Let me start with a simpler example. Suppose I have a coil of wire and a magnet. As I move the magnet in and out of this coil, it will produce an electric current. Here is an example of that.
The device on the right is essentially a sensitive meter to detect electric currents (called a galvanometer). If you look carefully, you might be able to notice that a current is produced when the magnet is moving—not just when there is a magnetic field. There must be a changing magnetic field to produce a current. But what if I replaced this moving magnet with a coil of wire with a changing current running through it? It could produce the exact same effect as the moving magnet.
Even better—I don't need two separate coils. With just one coil and a changing electric current, part of the coil will make a changing magnetic field that will induce an electric current in the other part of the coil.  This is the essence of an inductor. Really, the best way to think of an inductor is as a device that produces a change in electric potential that is proportional to the rate of change of the electric current. When the current is constant, there is not electric potential difference across the inductor is zero volts. When the electric current is changing very rapidly (like going from some current to zero when you open a switch), the electric potential difference across the inductor can be huge.
And here is the answer to sparking wires: If the circuit contains an inductor then opening or closing a switch (or pulling off a wire) will create a very large change in current (since it goes to zero). This huge current change makes a giant change in electric potential across the inductor. The giant electric potential difference means that you can get super high electric fields around the contact points. The electric field can be large enough to be at the 3 x 106 V/m level that would produce a spark.
But wait! What if your circuit doesn't have an inductor in it? Here's a surprise for you: Every circuit is an inductor. Since every circuit makes a loop, it at least has some inductance in it—so every circuit can spark when you open or close a switch.
Back to the Iron Man scene. Why would there only be a spark on the first cable that is removed from suit? Let's step through this in parts. First, I assume that there is a large current running from the battery to the suit and then back to the battery. This is a complete circuit—everything is good. Second, Tony pulls off one of the cables. If there is an inductance in the suit (highly likely) then this rapid decrease in electric current would induce a large voltage to create a spark. Finally, Tony pulls off the other cable. But there's a big difference—he's already broken the circuit. No complete circuit means no electric current and no change in current. There shouldn't be a second spark.
But in the end, it's just a movie and not real physics. Technically, this would be a scientific error—but it doesn't really have any impact on the plot. And even if it was a plot-related error, that's OK (as I have said many times before). I still like Iron Man.
Don Cheadle and Shane Black discuss Iron Man 3 which is set to be released in May of 2013.


You know that feeling. TFW you're in the market for a new phone, and you can't decide which one to buy. For the past month, if you're an Apple fan, chances are you've been feeling that feel a bit more than usual. This year, like every year, Apple released new phones—the iPhones 8 and 8 Plus. But they also released a newer phone. A "say hello to the future" phone. The iPhone X. It's got an edge-to-edge display, more and better cameras, and a certain je ne sais pas that just—wait, no. Lol, no, you totally sais. It's the fanciest phone Apple's ever made. It goes on sale tonight. And lord help you, you want it. You want it so bad.
But heavens, that price: $999, to start. Can you afford it? No. But financing. No! You're not falling for that again. You'll go with the iPhone 8 Plus. It's boring, but shut up, you will love it.
But then wait, you forgot: The iPhone X also has that sick OLED screen, and emoji you control with your face! Totally worth the extra few hundred dollars. What price can you really put on a talking pile of poop? The answer is no price. Talking poop is priceless.
Sounds like you have a tough decision to make.
Turns out psychologists have names for this kind of decision, and the hemming and hawing that goes into it.
"It's a classic example of what we call a multi-attribute decision task," says Ben Newell, a cognitive psychologist at the University of New South Wales Sydney and co-author of Straight Choices: The Psychology of Decision Making. It's a fancy term for situations in which you consider multiple options, each with attributes you use to inform your decision. If you've ever shopped for a laptop, a TV, a blender—anything that lends itself to a spec-sheet comparison or a 20,000-word Wirecutter review—you've grappled with a multi-attribute decision.
Meet the iPhone X, Apple's New High-End Handset
Review: Apple iPhone 8 and 8 Plus
Hands-On with the iPhone X, Apple's Most Stunning Yet
The iPhone X Isn't That Expensive, Actually
And the cell phone purchase is a particularly perfect example. "When we run experiments that examine the kinds of choices people make and why they make them, we often have them decide between phones," Newell says. (Cars show up a lot, too.) They're easy to deconstruct into their constituent specifications, like the number and quality of their cameras, their screen sizes, the relative superiority of their displays—and, of course, their prices.
The persnickety among you may even identify with what Newell calls a weighted additive strategy to decision making, whereby you assign each spec a number corresponding to its relative importance. (Which do you value more: a phone that fits in your back pocket, or a battery that doesn't die on the train home from work? If it's the latter, battery life gets a higher number than form factor.) When you're through, identifying your true desire is as simple as tallying the weighted values for each device.
Simple in theory, anyway. In practice, almost no one bothers to run literal numbers on choices like these. Gadget lust has a way of undermining rational decisions. But even those, Newell says, are informed to some degree by intuitive atribute-weighing, which can quickly lead to waffling.
And the timing of the iPhone X's release only complicates things further. A large body of research suggests that adding a third choice to a field of two options can affect people's appraisal of the original two alternatives. In other words: Humans base their purchasing decisions not just on the attributes of the product they're buying, but on the attributes of those they don't buy.
Psychologists call these context effects, and one of the best studied is a phenomenon known as the compromise effect. Say you have two options (A and B) that differ on two dimensions (quality and affordability). Option A is nicer, but option B is cheaper. Adding a third option, C, that is super sweet but super pricey, produces the compromise effect: In the presence of option C, option A becomes a compromise option, and its attractiveness increases.
It turns out Apple's 2017 iPhone lineup mimics the experimental conditions behind the compromise effect pretty closely. Here it is in chart form:
In the case of the 8 and 8 Plus, the 8 is more affordable, but the Plus has more desireable—call them "high quality"—features. Two cameras instead of one, more photography modes, bigger display, and so on. When Apple adds the iPhone X to the lineup, the 8 Plus becomes a compromise between the entry level 8 and the premium X. "So this kind of perverse thing could happen—if you believe the compromise effect will hold—where the introduction of the X could cause sales of the 8 Plus to go up," Newell says.
A couple big caveats apply here. One: This model ignores the influence of factors besides quality and affordability. It's easy to imagine a third vector that corresponds to the iPhone X's limited supply. Or a fourth linked to security concerns over FaceID.
And two, this model assumes that the only phones in existence, as far as the consumer is concerned, are the iPhones 8, 8 Plus, and X. Hardcore fans may only have eyes for the company's newest products, but Apple itself sells eight versions of the iPhone, not counting color or storage configurations.
Considerations like these may also help explain why demand for the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus has been so weak this past month. (According to Reuters, more customers in the US have sprung for the iPhone 7 in recent weeks than its successor.) Will those numbers change after Friday, when Apple's iPhone X supply inevitably runs dry?
Time will tell. In the meantime, keep an eye on those iPhone 8 Plus sales. It's no iPhone X, but I hear it's a solid choice. Not too basic. Not too pricey. Just right.
The New iPhone X packs more new stuff into any device since the original iPhone. It's the most complete redesign of the product ever, and even offers a glimpse at what the iPhone might become when the world no longer wants smartphones.


No one knew exactly when the girl would die, but everyone knew it would be soon. A 12-year-old with end stage cancer, the child's parents had recently moved her from the hospital to her home in the suburbs of Los Angeles. Some days later the girl's breath quickened, and her father phoned the family's hospice nurse. Please come, he said. He was worried about her breathing.
The nurse knew the visit would require more than four hours of her time: a two-hour drive in each direction, plus her time with the girl. Why don't we connect over FaceTime, she asked. The father agreed, and they connected.
The nurse asked the father to move his daughter gently to her side. Then to her back. To lift the child's shirt. To show her the expansion and contraction of the girl's rib cage. The nurse would ask: What do you see, what concerns you, and the father would explain. Then the nurse would do the same. In this fashion the pair examined the girl—the nurse on her computer, the father his iPad. Together they decided that the nurse's presence was not necessary, that the child had more time.
Later, the father reported feeling comforted by the nurse. He appreciated her availability, the fact that she could see what he saw, and their ability to discuss it in real time. "It's so unique, the visual image, and knowing that everyone is seeing and talking about the same phenomenon," says pediatrician David Steinhorn, director of palliative care at Children's National Medical Center—and the head of the telemedicine pilot the girl's family had been part of.
An expert in the burgeoning field of telemedicine, Steinhorn believes in the power of digital tools to connect clinicians with their patients. But more important than the technology, he says, is what clinicians in the field have taken to calling "webside" manner. It's a modern twist on bedside manner—a physician's ability to relate with a patient and convey their desire to help. "My experience is that, once you get past some initial hurdles, you can maintain an intimate, immediate connection with patients that in some cases may be more therapeutically useful than even in-person interactions," Steinhorn says.
But getting there isn’t always easy. As anyone who's spent time on a video call knows, communicating via telepresence is very different from communicating in person. “It's all the little things,” says experimental psychologist Elizabeth Krupinski, associate director of evaluation for the telemedicine program at the University of Arizona. “I mean, there's the technology bit, obviously. Webcam resolution, internet connection, and so on. And you have to think about your backdrop, your lighting, what you're wearing as well. But what you've really got to monitor is your behavior.” Krupinski should know: U of A is one of the first schools in the country to incorporate telemedicine instruction into its medical school curricula.
"It sounds strange, but when you're on camera all your actions are magnified," Krupinski says. Sitting six feet away from your doctor, in person, you might not mind or notice her slouching, fidgeting, or gesticulating. But a webcam's intimate vantage point augments these actions in ways that patients can find distracting or off-putting. "You take a sip of coffee and your mug takes up the whole screen, and all they hear is the sound of you slurping," she says. "Or you turn away to make a note, and now all your patient sees is your shoulder. Maybe you disappear from the frame entirely."
If these all sound like awfully little things for physicians to concern themselves with, well, you're right. But that's kind of the point. The considerations are so small and numerous that they can wind up overwhelming otherwise competent clinicians, interfering with their ability to connect with patients. "There are some people who are great in person and you put them on camera they're a dead fish," Krupinski says. Some physicians are camera shy. (For others, the physical isolation can actually help them be more empathetic—Krupinski says she's seen it both ways.) Telemedicine students are often instructed to disable their video chat's picture-in-picture feature. "Turn it off and look at the patient," Krupinski says. That's also kind of tricky: To appear as though they're making eye contact, clinicians are taught to look not at the patient on their screen, but directly into their device's webcam.
Some hospitals have gone so far as to design telemedicine clinics, purpose-built to address the peculiarities of virtual examinations. "We try our best to control as much of the environment as we can, so the doctors can be doctors," says Jim Marcin, director of the pediatric telemedicine program at UC Davis. The room is staged like an office but with better lighting. There's a nice desk for the clinician to sit behind, a computer situated stage left, and books in the background. A physician taking a video call from home, or somewhere in the ICU, might wear a gaming headset—a pair of brawny headphones, equipped with a mic—to ensure whatever the patient says isn't broadcast to anyone off-camera (a clear violation of patient privacy, Marcin says). But in the secluded confines of the telemedicine clinic, the whole room is mic-ed. The clinician can forego the gaming rig and focus on projecting a natural, empathetic presence.
UC Davis' clinic is in many ways the polar opposite of what patients see when they use online services like Teladoc and HealthTap, which rely on networks of tens of thousands of doctors to deliver health care directly to users, often without ever having met. (Neither Teladoc nor HealthTap responded to request for comment.) Marcin, Krupinski, and Steinhorn all say their institutions use telemedicine primarily to follow up with patients they've already worked with in person—something no longer required in the United States. (Texas was the holdout; earlier this year, it became the last state to allow physicians to connect with new patients virtually rather than first meeting in person.)
The Science of Telemedicine: A Lifesaver in the Right Place
Telemedicine Could Be Great, if People Stopped Using It Like Uber
The VA’s New App Tries to Reach Vets Wherever They Live
Ad hoc, virtual visits can work great when a patient needs a quick diagnosis for a sore throat or weird rash. But many experts are skeptical of clinicians' ability to deliver compassionate, high-quality care to virtual strangers. "Look, there's variation whether you see a clinician in person or whether you see them online, so I'm not saying in any way that telemedicine is less helpful than in-person visits, or that webside manner is worse than bedside manner," says UCSF pulmonologist Adams Dudley. "But webside manner definitely requires more cooperation, and a different kind of cooperation, than bedside manner."
That cooperation was often missing from doctor-patient interactions in a study—led by Dudley and published in JAMA Internal Medicine last year—that investigated the quality of virtual urgent care. The researchers conducted their investigation secret-shopper style, sending dozens of trained patients to direct-to-consumer telemedicine companies. Their scripted symptoms reflected acute illnesses such as ankle pain, low back pain, and recurrent urinary tract infections—and the researchers observed a huge range in quality of care and webside manner.
But more concerning to Dudley was the infrequency with which clinicians referred their first-time patients to specialists in their area. "Our ankle protocol was a situation where the clinician should have ordered X-rays. And in an ER, 90 percent of our test patients would have gotten it. But over telemedicine, fewer than 20 percent of patients were referred to radiologists."
The reason for the disparity isn't totally clear, but Dudley has a hypothesis: If you're a doctor in Philadelphia diagnosing a patient in Albuquerque, you're not familiar with which local provider to refer them. It's the kind of problem that could be solved with some back and forth or an ongoing patient-doctor relationship. But absent both, a surprising number of clinicians wound up not connecting the dots. "So yeah, it's terrible webside manner, and terrible care" says Dudley.
Regardless of the current state of virtual care, conscientious providers are always looking to improve. That's why Steinhorn set up his pilot palliative care program in the first place. When he thinks back to the young cancer patient in LA, Steinhorn believes that telemedicine was able to provide the girl and her family support and reassurance. And it can help physicians, too. "In my own interactions, I’ve used telemedicine to see how a family 100 miles away is coping, that the scene I see in the home appears orderly, and that the family seems together, even in times of tension and distress," he says. "And that's been reassuring.”
Artificial intelligence is now detecting cancer and robots are doing nursing tasks. But are there risks to handing over elements of our health to machines, no matter how sophisticated?


A little bit of booze, the conventional wisdom goes, can be good for you. But the evidence for that claim—beyond anecdotal accounts that a nip of whiskey can nip a cold in the bud—is surprisingly thin. Alcohol studies usually look backwards, comparing participants’ historical drinking habits with their health problems. But it’s hard to prove that alcohol caused those problems. The best alcohol study would randomly require people to either drink or abstain—but for many public health researchers, that’s always seemed like a bridge too far.
Today, though, the National Institutes of Health is planning just such an experiment. The Moderate Alcohol and Cardiovascular Health study, now in progress on four continents, is poised to be a breakthrough in public health: the first time that researchers have followed a group of people randomized to receive a daily drink or nothing at all. But it’s also the first time the NIH has offered the $1 trillion-plus alcoholic beverage industry a chance to sponsor a project. That exchange of money, along with the study leaders’ failure to guard against outside influence, are jeopardizing the study’s credibility before it has even enrolled its first participant.
The study has its origin, strangely enough, in tea. Back in 2006, researchers thought tea drinkers might have fewer heart attacks. So Kenneth Mukamal, an epidemiologist at the Harvard-affiliated Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, recruited at-risk adults and told them to drink either three cups of black tea a day or three cups of water. Getting participants to stick to the program is notoriously difficult, so to make sure they were drinking their tea, Mukumal tested urine samples from a subgroup of participants for gallic acid, a tea breakdown product. After six months, they ran the numbers: Tea had virtually no effect on a person’s cardiovascular risk.
The results from the tea study may have been moot, but that gallic acid-measuring test was the proof of concept Mukamal needed for a different study. In 2008, Mukamal began giving participants an alcoholic drink—a mix of ethanol with Crystal Light or a Kraft lemonade mix—comparing their health markers to a control group that got lemonade without the booze. But people wouldn’t drink the ethanol. Like in the tea study, Mukamal was tracking whether his participants stuck to the program, and a blood test that rises with alcohol intake was actually higher in the non-alcoholic group than the alcohol group. A randomized trial to test alcohol’s benefits, Mukamal concluded, would have to let the participants choose a drink they actually liked.
Enter the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. In 2014, the institute solicited Mukamal to plan a six-year study of 7,000 subjects at risk of heart disease, pitting a daily alcoholic drink against total abstinence. They’d track heart attacks, strokes, heart-related chest pain, and death—the most comprehensive study of the heart impacts of daily drinking ever done, focusing on adults 50 and over. Instead of giving subjects a mix prepared by research pharmacists, though, the study would reimburse them for the drink of their choice.
Paying for more than 3,500 daily drinks for six years, it turns out, is expensive. The NIH would need more funding—and soon, a team stepped up to the plate. The Foundation of the NIH, a little-known 20-year-old non-profit that calls on donors to support NIH science, was talking to alcohol corporations. By the fall of 2014, the study was relying on the industry for “separate contributions to the Foundation of the NIH beyond what the NIAAA could afford,” as Mukamal put it in an e-mail to a prospective collaborator. Later that year, Congress encouraged the NIH to sponsor the study, but lawmakers didn’t provide any money. Five corporations—Anheuser-Busch InBev, Diageo, Pernod Ricard, Heineken, and Carlsberg—have since provided a total of $67 million. The foundation is seeking another $23 million, according to its director of development, Julie Wolf-Rodda.
The NIH has run into similar ethical problems before. In 2012, the National Football League made a $30 million donation to support research on sports-related medical problems. Later, when the NIH funded an expert on football-related brain injury whom the League disapproved of, NFL representatives contacted senior NIH officers about it. A 2016 Congressional investigation faulted the NFL for attempting to use its donation “as leverage to steer [research] funding away from one of its critics.” But the investigation also concluded that the Foundation didn’t do enough to protect the NIH from its NFL funders.
To protect the alcohol study from the influence of its funders, the Foundation uses detailed letters of agreement: Companies are obliged to accept NIH control of the project’s scientific and administrative aspects and barred from attempting to influence its design or conduct, and from trying to access non-public project results. Those agreements were in place during the NFL deal, and Wolf-Rodda says the organization has since “tightened” the language in its agreements, making the rules “now a little bit clearer and harder for people to overlook.” Both Mukamal and Peggy Murray, a senior leader at NIAAA and the NIH staff scientist on the trial, say they haven’t spoken to anyone from the alcohol industry about the project, another important wall to prevent any influence, intentional or not, from the companies.
But for some scholars, there is no right way to involve the industry in investigating alcohol’s benefits. “It’s a clear conflict of interest if the industry that’s going to profit from the findings of the research is funding it,” says David Jernigan, head of the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore. Richard Saitz of Boston University’s School of Public Health compares the situation to the tobacco industry’s support of research that raised doubts about the risks of smoking. In some circumstances, he says, “a firewall is just not quite enough.”
And although the study has not yet begun recruiting subjects, the medical community has already found reason to validate those concerns.
Jimmy Volmink, dean of the medical school at Stellenbosch University near Cape Town, South Africa, first heard about the alcohol trial in the fall of 2014. To recruit a diverse set of participants, Mukamal was assembling a global team of research partners; Volmink, a black South African physician who did his medical training under the apartheid regime, was considering signing on. Volmink holds a public health degree from Harvard and a doctorate in cardiovascular medicine from Oxford, and his claim to fame in academia is his leadership role with Cochrane, an organization that reviews clinical trial results for doctors.
After a few exchanges with Mukamal, Volmink met with two colleagues to talk about the study. The Stellenbosch medical campus is in a Cape Town suburb near stylish outdoor malls rivaling those of Florida or California, but the group’s discussion focused on the impoverished townships that dot the Cape Flats, only about 20 km away. The threesome worried the study could be unethical for their center, given the region’s soaring rates of fetal alcohol syndrome—among the highest in the world. South Africa is also burdened by alcohol-fueled accidents and violence, a lasting reminder of the apartheid era’s ‘dop’ system, when farm workers received part of their pay in drink instead of money. Celeste Naude, a nutrition researcher, said she also wondered about the project’s funding, since the food industry often sponsors nutrition research.
When Volmink talked with Mukamal a few weeks later, he followed up on Naude’s funding question. Mukamal said the project had a commitment from the NIAAA, and NIAAA would also receive alcohol industry monies. “There’s no direct funding by the alcohol industry,” Volmink recalls him saying.
In an interview later, Volmink said the discussion had made him uncomfortable—he hadn’t heard about the industry’s role before, and he was troubled by the lack of transparency. Quantitative analyses of drug and medical device studies have found that they are about 30 percent more likely to reach positive conclusions when the research is industry-sponsored.
So in mid-October 2014, Volmink e-mailed Mukamal to say Stellenbosch would not participate, citing problems they expected to have in recruiting participants, South Africa’s high levels of harmful drinking, and “funding from the alcohol industry, albeit channeled through the NIAAA.” But he closed with gratitude: “Thank you for inviting us to collaborate. We look forward to future opportunities to do so.”
Mukamal sent a stinging reply. “Thanks Jimmy. It sounded earlier like you lack the strong trial infrastructure and experience and appropriate population we would need for this to be carried out safely and effectively, which may not exist in many places in [South Africa] and beyond.”
He added, “I doubt we’ll have similar opportunities to study questions as central to nutrition as this again, as few are as prominent, but if we do, we’ll let you know.”
Two years later, when the NIAAA awarded Mukamal the grant to lead the study they’d already funded him to design, the moderate alcohol trial included sites in Nigeria, Argentina, Europe and the US. The Foundation also had established formal agreements with the five alcohol corporations for the NIAAA’s $67 million.
Yet when I spoke to Mukamal in February 2017, he said he didn’t know about the Foundation’s negotiation for industry contributions “until relatively recently.” And a New York Times reporter who wrote about the trial in July, documenting how many of its global collaborators have received alcohol industry funding, quoted Mukamal as saying “he was not aware that alcohol companies were supporting the trial financially.” Mukamal later told me the Times’ quote was “completely wrong.” And he explained in an e-mail that his knowledge of the alcohol industry’s support is limited since he is not privy to the Foundation’s contracts with funders.
“We have no contact with funders other than NIAAA itself whatsoever,” he wrote. “To me, the whole point of having FNIH involved is exactly that—so that if industry wants to see truly rigorous science, they get no say in what happens whatsoever.” Typically, when studies supported by the Foundation of the NIH are published, scientists simply list FNIH as a funder. No information is provided about how the Foundation raised money.
But the relationship between the NIAAA and its foundation funders is less murky. Murray, who heads global alcohol research for the NIAAA appeared with NIAAA director George Koob in a promotional video for Anheuser-Busch InBev—one of the study funders—about company-sponsored research. NIH is strict about outside interests, prohibiting its employees from advising any “substantially affected organizations” https://ethics.od.nih.gov/topics/COI-Fact-Sheet.pdf, but Murray and Koob got permission from the US Department of Health & Human Services to attend an Anheuser-Busch meeting in New York, where the company filmed them.
Tech's Alcohol-Soaked Culture Isn't a Party for Everybody
The Muddled Link Between Booze and Cancer
Everything Science Knows About Hangovers—And How to Cure Them
In an interview, Murray said the alcohol trial likely already had the industry’s commitments at the time of the filming, but she and Koob hadn’t been thinking about it. Instead they’d been focused on the reason they were invited to the meeting, an Anheuser-Busch plan to study interventions to reduce ‘harmful drinking’ in cities around the world. In the video, Murray says she “really likes” the company’s research plan, comments she said she stands by today (http://www.ab-inbev.com/better-world/a-healthier-world/global-smart-drinking-goals.html).
“It always surprises me when people are critical of us even talking to industry,” she says. “It is a legal industry and they are a constituency as much as anybody.” But if they had it to do again, she and Koob agree they probably would say no. Seeing NIAAA leaders in an industry promotional video was “disconcerting” for James Sargent of Dartmouth’s Geisel School of Medicine in New Hampshire, while for Michael Siegel of Boston University, the video showed the NIAAA was “corrupted by the alcohol industry.”
Without the industry’s scores of millions, the NIAAA alcohol trial wouldn’t be happening, according to Murray. The study’s cost relates to its size and breadth, key to producing findings that can withstand statistical scrutiny. But several scientists worry this is not the right tradeoff between robust research and industry influence, statistical power and ethics. Given the size and specifications of the corporate donations, there’s a real possibility of the trial being influenced, said alcohol researcher Jürgen Rehm, of Toronto’s Centre for Addiction and Mental Health. What if scientific investigators discovered the study was too risky, or too risky in certain countries, he asked. “You would stop, but because you have this funding and it’s project-specific, you won’t want to stop.”
The NIAAA trial is still undergoing ethical review by institutional review boards, the ethics panels charged with protecting subjects from study-related harms. But Mukamal is promising a game-changer—“a truly definitive experiment that will settle this once and for all,” as he wrote in an editorial last May. Others in the field don’t see it that way. “The way this is set up, it smells,” says Rehm. “I’m sorry.”
It’s the preferred poison of Russians, dieters, and college freshmen, but what’s actually inside the fire water? It's rarely potatoes, actually. At its purest, it's mostly ethanol that has been distilled from wheat, rye, or corn and diluted with water. Find out what else is inside the clear spirit.


Stay on target. That’s the mantra you hear in labs and biotech companies around the world as they snip away at DNA. All the techniques for gene editing—from the famous Crispr-Cas9 to the older TALENs and zinc-finger nucleases—share a problem: Sometimes they don’t work.
Which is to say, they have “off-target effects,” changing a gene you don’t want changed or failing to change a gene that you do. And DNA is not something you want poorly rewired. That goes double if you’re trying to make money; companies working on genome-editing based products are valued in the billions of dollars. That’s why two scientific articles published today in the journals Nature and Science are so important—they tune genome editing up.
The Nature paper chases precision at a literally basic level—the bases, the As, Gs, Cs, and Ts that are the individual units in the genetic code. Crispr-Cas9 works by slicing through the two strands of bases that spiral to create DNA’s famous double-helix. But another approach, single base editing, actually converts one base into another—since the bases pair in predictable ways, A to T and G to C, that modification flips a single genetic “bit.” Until now, scientists have only been able to change a G-C base pair into an A-T base pair.
The new paper takes the other angle, describing an editor that changes adenine—the “A”—into a base called inosine, which the cell’s protein-building machinery reads as guanine, the “G.” When that molecular machine puts a little nick in the complementary strand of DNA across the gap where the T is, the cell’s DNA repair machinery “fixes” it by slotting in a C. In other words, it’s an A-T to G-C base edit.
How cool is that? “This class of mutation, changing a G-C to an A-T, accounts for about half of the 32,000 known pathogenic point mutations in humans,” says David Liu, the Harvard chemist whose lab did the work. Liu’s lab has already used this editor to fix—in cell cultures—the mutation that causes hereditary hemochromatosis, which causes a person to retain too much iron, and to treat sickle-cell anemia.
Getting there wasn’t easy. In biology, changing one molecule into another is usually the job of a natural nanotechnological marvel called an enzyme. Enzymes that turn adenine into inosine are called adenine deaminases, but none exists that’ll transmogrify adenine embedded in a strand of DNA. So Liu’s team built one, putting engineered bacteria under evolutionary pressure until it built an enzyme that would target A’s in DNA.
And it goes to the right A, too. One of Crispr’s components is a molecule of “guide RNA,” a length of genetic stuff that points to a target like the scrap of clothing you hand a bloodhound before a hunt. Liu’s editor uses that part. “Normally Crispr-Cas9 makes a double-stranded cut in the DNA,” Liu says. “We used a form of Crispr-Cas9 that’s crippled. It cannot cut the DNA.” But it still stays on target.
The research in the Science paper takes a different tack on A-to-G conversion. This one, from the lab of Broad Institute researcher Feng Zhang, incorporates an adenosine deaminase (a molecular cousin of the adenine deaminase in the Liu paper) into Crispr-Cas13, a variant genome editor that works on RNA—the copy of DNA that cellular machinery reads to build proteins. Zhang’s team calls it “RNA Editing for Programmable A to I Replacement,” or Repair, proving that if the fights over Crispr’s genesis and patent have taught researchers anything, it’s to come up with better names.
Because it acts on RNA, Repair makes a transient change, which could be good for treating problems like acute inflammation or wounds—potentially dangerous, but you wouldn’t want to turn off someone’s inflammatory response permanently. “There are 12 possible base changes you can do,” says Omar Abudayyeh, a researcher at the Broad Institute and one of the paper’s authors. “Now we’re thinking about the ways to do the other 11.”
But both approaches attempt to sharpen Crispr’s scalpel. With typical Crispr-Cas9 in DNA, the problem isn’t the cut; it’s the repair, which can cause a kind of genetic scarring, so-called stochastic insertions or deletions, or “indels”—additional bases tossed in, or a few removed. “When you make a double-stranded break in the genome, the cell tries to get the ends back together, and most of the time it’s successful,” Liu says. But every now and then, the cell just can't quite put Humpty’s DNA together again. If your goal is to seriously bork a gene, indels can be great. But if you’re trying to splice in a new stretch of DNA, they're a problem.
By operating on RNA, Crispr-Cas13 avoids all that. RNA repair doesn’t involve indels, for one thing. And: “There’s always a concern for off-target effects with these types of systems,” Abudayyeh says. “But with RNA you have to think about off-targets a little differently.” A miswired stretch of DNA means all the RNA transcribed from it and all the protein translated from the RNA will be busted. If some of the RNA in a cell gets edited correctly and some doesn’t, that means the cell will have at least some amount of the right protein. If things go really wrong, the edit is reversible. “You can always remove the system, and the RNA will eventually degrade and recycle and revert back to normal,” Abudayyeh says.
Likewise, editing of DNA that relies on base-pair modification instead of double-stranded cuts gets around some of those other limitations. “David’s work follows on his earlier innovative efforts to do genome editing without a double-strand break,” says Fyodor Urnov, associate director of the Altius Institute for Biomedical Sciences. And Zhang’s work “adds to the toolbox by giving us an enzyme that can edit RNA in a precise fashion.”
Those kind of tools are much in demand. In June 2017, a letter from researchers published in Nature Methods asserted that in addition to the indel problem Crispr messed up the genome in a whole lot of weird ways. Crispr researchers quickly rallied to dismantle the paper’s methods and analysis, but they all acknowledge that some applications of Crispr-Cas9 yield better results than others.
Crispr's Next Big Debate: How Messy Is Too Messy?
Scientists Crispr the First Human Embryos in the US (Maybe)
How Crispr Could Snip Away Some of Humanity's Worst Diseases
Why bother? Because there’s more than just new drugs, new drought-resistant crops, and new materials on the line. A half-dozen or more companies have gotten venture capital to work on Crispr-powered products. Liu, Zhang, and Joung, along with the researcher George Church, are all co-founders of one of the big ones, Editas Medicine. Crispr-Cas9 co-inventor Jennifer Doudna was once on that team as well. Editas and the like-minded companies Intellia and Crispr Therapeutics briefly lost tens of millions in valuation on the publication of that Nature Methods paper. A fight over who actually invented Crispr-Cas9 is ongoing with UC Berkeley, Doudna, and her co-author Emanuelle Charpentier on one side and Church, Zhang, and the Broad Institute on the other.
So it’s critical that Crispr-Cas9 and its follow-on technologies work. Liu’s single-base editors are a long way from becoming a therapeutic, but multiple modified organisms and treatments made with Crispr-Cas9 are in the approval pipeline. Genome editing is still working on finding the bullseye in the depths of cells, but it’s also aiming at financial ones, and at changing the world. It’s going to need one hell of a good targeting system.
'Stranger Things' stars Finn Wolfhard and Caleb McLaughlin show us the last things they did with their phones. What was the last emoji they used? The last text message sent? What was the last thing they searched?


Like with jetpacks and flying cars, the Power Loader from Aliens is a robot we’ve been promised for a long time. That’d be the exoskeleton that Sigourney Weaver donned to beat the tar out of the movie’s eponymous alien Queen, of course. Jetpacks are kinda here, flying cars … almost, and now a real-life Power Loader has finally arrived, and it’s orders of magnitude more impressive than the suit of fiction.
Behold the Guardian GT from Sarcos Robotics, which in all honesty is full-tilt bonkers. Bonkers in the sense that unlike the clunky Power Loader, these 7-foot-long arms replicate human motions with incredible smoothness and accuracy, each limb lifting 500 pounds, then turning around and manipulating the most delicate of objects. Watching it in action is both hypnotic and highly unsettling.
A big problem in robotics right now is manipulation. You take for granted how easy it is for you to, say, pick up a piece of paper off a table. But imagine a robot trying that with clutzy metal fingers. No matter how strong a robot may be, it’s still miles away from human dexterity.
But with the Guardian GT has a couple of advantages that make it remarkably dexterous. For one, it's kinematically equivalent, meaning it's arranged like a human, so the operator is controlling what is essentially a sized-up version of their own body. “The distance between those stereo cameras and the shoulder is the same ratio as you have in your own human body,” says Ben Wolff, CEO of Sarcos. Same goes for the distance between the shoulder and the elbow and the elbow and the wrist. “So it's very intuitive. That kinematic equivalent concept enables a brand new operator with no training at all to be able to get into the machine.”
On top of that, the robot uses force feedback, so the operator can feel the environment through the machine's hand (which consists of three fingers instead of five). Imagine trying to lift a mug if you could see it but not feel it. With force feedback, the pilot can feel when the robot's hand makes contact with even small objects like switches and buttons. The robot can even pop open an electrical box with the tippy-tip of one of its fingers.
The Guardian GT also has a dexterity advantage over other humanoid robots because it's all custom-built. Sarcos didn't buy hands (known more formally as end effectors) from a hand company and slap them on arms from somewhere else. Everything is customized to work in harmony.
What Is a Robot?
This Robot Tractor Is Ready to Disrupt Construction
Inside SynTouch, the Mad Lab Giving Robots the Power to Feel
While it all may look effortless, it’s not as if the operator isn't feeling a thing when they lift a 1,000-pound pipe. “That's a little disorienting, so we give a little bit of load into the arm,” Wolff says. Meaning, the robot pushes back a tiny bit. “So instead of lifting a thousand pounds you feel like you're lifting five.” (How it’s able to do this without the herky-jerkiness of other robots comes down to special actuators, the bits that move and bend the arms. What exactly is special about them, Wolff declines to say, because he’s a good businessman.)
Just imagine this thing on a construction site. Doing something like lifting and joining two pipes would require a crane and maybe five or six workers, who would be freed up to do other jobs that require a more human touch (fine manipulation, for instance). With the Guardian GT, all it takes is one supercharged human. It still requires a lot of coordination, sure, but the robot takes the strain out of the equation.
What’s interesting about this workplace robot is that it’s collaborative—a human is always in control. And that’s what the future of work looks like, especially heavy industry. Fields like construction and agriculture are already facing severe labor shortages, and the machines are poised to pick up the slack. Think automated construction tractors and robots that help humans harvest crops without all the stooping. In the very near future we’ll be working alongside robots, as opposed to robots outright replacing us.
So the death of human labor, it seems, has been greatly exaggerated. “While I think that we will see increasing amounts of autonomy and AI,” says Wolff, “I think the real role in work generally is for us to find as humans how to maximize the utility of robots. Allow them to do what they're really good at while still relying on what humans are best at, which is wisdom and judgment.”
Then there are the jobs that humans simply can’t do. Because the Guardian GT rolls on either tracks or wheels, the operator can drive it into danger. Think exploring toxic environments and decommissioning nuclear power plants. With the inherent dexterity of the machine, it could easily manipulate things made for humans hands, like valves and buttons.
And, if the time comes, it might save us all from aliens. But let’s hope it doesn’t come to that.


For patients with epilepsy, or cancerous brain lesions, sometimes the only way to forward is down. Down past the scalp and into the skull, down through healthy grey matter to get at a tumor or the overactive network causing seizures. At the end of the surgery, all that extra white and grey matter gets tossed in the trash or an incinerator. Well, not all of it. At least, not in Seattle.
For the last few years, doctors at a number of hospitals in the Emerald City have been saving those little bits and blobs of brain, sticking them on ice, and rushing them off in a white van across town to the Allen Institute for Brain Science. Scientists there have been keeping the tissue on life support long enough to tease out how individual neurons look, act, and communicate. And today they’re sharing the first peek at these cells in a freely available public database. It provides a more intimate, intricate look into the circuitry of the human brain than ever before. And it’s just the beginning of a much larger effort to build a complete catalog of human brain cells.
This first release includes electrical readings from a few hundred living neurons—all recently removed from 36 neurosurgery patients in Seattle area hospitals. For 100 of those cells, Allen Institute researchers built 3-D models of their branching structures, which they can use to simulate patterns of pulses and zaps. Scientists can see where in the brain neurons start and stop, and how current flows and spreads a signal throughout a neuronal network—signals that might move a muscle, or make a memory.
“Thirty minutes ago that was part of someone’s brain, maybe even the part that holds the memory of their first kiss,” says Christof Koch, chief scientist and president of the Allen Institute for Brain Science. “No one has had access like this before, to healthy brain tissue at the level of individual neurons.”
Because of the particular peskiness of studying the human brain, most brain maps are built from mice or post-mortem human tissue. Dead brain cells can tell you a lot about shape; you can stain ‘em and characterize their morphology. But they can’t tell you anything about the function of circuits—because they don’t fire.
So to keep the post-op cells alive and kicking, doctors pack the pea-sized tissue on ice. They need to keep the brain bit as close to freezing as possible—about 4 degrees centigrade—to slow down metabolism and prevent the tissue from deteriorating. Once it arrives at the Allen Institute, researchers slice the sample into many dozens of sections no thinner than a silicon wafer. Each slice is loaded into special containers Allen scientists developed to keep the tissue on life support. They look kind of like little baskets, floating around a tiny pump that bubbles in a life-sustaining stream of oxygen.
That’s enough time for people like Jonathan Ting, an assistant investigator at the Allen, to isolate individual neurons and push and prod them with glass electrodes. By forming a super-tight connection with the cell—what’s called a giga-ohm seal—he can measure how it spikes in response to little shocks of energy. Each pattern of spikes acts as a signature that helps identify the function of a neuron—maybe this one forms a thought, while that one feels a feeling.
“For 150 years neuroscientists have classified cells by the way they looked,” says Ting. But, he says, like describing a person, how much can you really know about someone just by looking at them? What about how they talk? How they act? What about their social network? All these different things paint a clearer picture of who a person is. “It’s the same in neuroscience,” says Ting. “We’re just starting to align morphology with electrical behavior with genetic expression.”
Inside Paul Allen's Plan to Reverse-Engineer the Human Brain
A First Big Step Toward Mapping the Human Brain
The Nameless Mouse Behind the Largest-Ever Neural Network
In addition to the recordings and 3-D renderings released today, the Allen Institute’s database now also contains gene expression profiles for nearly 16,000 individual neurons. This emerging field, known as single cell transcriptomics, lets scientists see all the genes that turn on in different kinds of brain cells. And on Monday, the National Institutes of Health awarded the Allen Institute and its collaborators $100 million to continue classifying human brain cells based on their shape, physiology, connective properties, and gene expression.
The largest bit of the grants, though, will go toward creating a comprehensive atlas of cell types in the mouse brain, which would be a first for mammals. That effort is part of the federal government’s 2013 Brain Initiative, which aims to understand brain circuits well enough to devise new therapies for diseases like epilepsy, Alzheimer’s, and muscular dystrophy. John Ngai, a cell biologist at UC Berkeley, is partnering with the Allen and four other institutions to document all the cells in the rodent brain over the next five years, which at just about the shape of a sugar cube, is roughly the size of just one of the Allen’s human brain bits.
Unlike those tissue samples though, a mouse brain is complete—it’s got all the parts, from the frontal lobe to the medulla oblongata. And while it may not be as complex as the human brain, simplicity is a plus when you’re attempting the first complete cranial catalogue for a warm-blooded creature.
Just how much is left to discover? “Almost everything,” says Ngai. “We could double our knowledge base in the next five years and still have over 99.9 percent left to learn.” These atlasing projects are really about trying to understand the hardware inside the human head. And to hope like crazy that it provides some insight into the uniquely human aspects of brain function.
The Connectome is a comprehensive diagram of all the neural connections existing in the brain. WIRED has challenged neuroscientist Bobby Kasthuri to explain this scientific concept to 5 different people; a 5 year-old, a 13 year-old, a college student, a neuroscience grad student and a connectome entrepreneur.


Last September, SpaceX was fueling its Falcon 9 for a routine test fire before launch when a composite liner inside the upper-stage fuel tank failed, letting oxygen seep in. Friction between the tank’s aluminum liner and carbon overwrap ignited a towering inferno that engulfed the rocket, the launch pad, and a $200 million satellite owned by Israeli firm Spacecom. It was SpaceX’s second disaster in 14 months—preceded by the explosion of a Falcon 9 heading to the International Space Station in June of 2015.
But far be it from Spacecom to get scared off by a little fire and brimstone. According to a Hebrew-language press release published last week, the company will attempt to launch another satellite atop a reusable Falcon 9 rocket in 2019—a freebie to make up for the first kablooie. And after that, they’ve signed up for another SpaceX launch in 2020.
Somehow, it seems, SpaceX has restored confidence in its customers after its failures in 2015 and 2016. This year, it has launched 15 missions, reusing three of its boosters. On that string of successes, Spacecom is returning to SpaceX’s launch manifest along with an array of customers lining up for dramatically low prices—and the opportunity to sign up for an even cheaper recycled booster launch. The value proposition is even appealing to that most cagey of customers: the United States military.
SpaceX owes a great deal of its reputation—and its $21 billion valuation—to its repeat customers. In 2013, Luxembourg-based communications provider SES took a risk to fly atop the first Falcon 9 rocket to geostationary orbit. In return, SpaceX offered SES the first reusable orbital rocket launch in aerospace history and all the free publicity that came along with it. The historic mission launched on March 30, and on October 11, SpaceX fired off its third reusable rocket, carrying another SES payload.
Another loyal customer, Iridium, indicated last week that its next two SpaceX launches would fly on reusable boosters. “I think you’re already seeing the commercial satellite industry realize the impact ‘flight proven’ boosters could have on the market,” says former White House space advisor and former SpaceX official Phil Larson. “Some are contributing to the overall push for this new capability.”
The main advantage for SpaceX is obvious: price. Going on just the advertised prices from both SpaceX and competitor United Launch Alliance for the cheapest mission, the difference in costs before taxes and insurance is about $47 million. Elon Musk claims that cost difference for certain launches could exceed $300 million––which is the average cost of a satellite. “So flying with SpaceX means satellite is basically free,” the billionaire tweeted.
Which is how SpaceX finally broke into the public sector. In May of 2015, SpaceX won a lawsuit to end the monopoly on Air Force missions held by United Launch Alliance—and today, the Air Force is a satisfied and enthusiastic customer. The head of US Space Command, John W. Raymond, told Bloomberg that it would be “absolutely foolish” not to be utilizing recycled rockets in the future.
And SpaceX would be foolish not to fight for those military contracts, which are the biggest it gets. So far, it’s done well: SpaceX launched its first national security mission earlier this year for the National Reconnaissance Office and followed that clandestine mission with another. In early September, as Hurricane Irma approached Florida’s coast, SpaceX launched the secretive Boeing-built X-37B spaceplane for the Air Force.
SpaceX Lifts Off as Kennedy Space Center Braces for Hurricane Irma
SpaceX Will Lose Millions on Its Taiwanese Satellite Launch
SpaceX's Mars Plans Hit a Pothole. Up Next: the Moon?
And just last week, SpaceX slated another top-secret mission—code-named Zuma—in between already planned launches in November. Documents obtained by WIRED point to a classified payload built by Northrop Grumman for the military. The details of the launch are heavily under wraps.
Next door to the Air Force at Cape Canaveral is NASA, another customer burned by SpaceX. In June of 2015, SpaceX lost an agency resupply haul bound for the International Space Station when the Falcon 9 exploded minutes after liftoff. But like Spacecom, the agency bounced back. Since the explosion, SpaceX has completed five successful resupply missions for NASA—and it’s making progress toward flying NASA astronauts to the space station in late 2018.
NASA’s interest in SpaceX’s reusable technology seems to be growing as well. Sources at Kennedy Space Center tell WIRED that NASA and SpaceX have preliminarily agreed to launch the next two cargo resupply missions to ISS atop reusable rockets. The agency also announced last week that it has contracted SpaceX to launch the collaborative Sentinel-6A mission in 2020 to gather ocean topography data.
Today, SpaceX’s mission cadence puts them in a dead heat with the Russians for 2017 launches. Vice President Mike Pence didn’t seem to notice, though, as he held the first National Space Council meeting on October 5. “America seems to have lost our edge in space,” Pence said.
SpaceX president Gwynne Shotwell sat on the panel, perplexed.
The private American companies battling it out for a $3.5 billion NASA contract have one last chance to successfully launch their spacecraft before a decision is made in January.


The cargo ship Yacu Kallpa rode impatiently at anchor off Iquitos, Peru, a ramshackle city on a bend in the broad, turbulent waters of the Amazon River. She was a midsize ship, a tenth of a mile long, low-slung, with a seven-story superstructure in the stern and plumes of rust fanning down the hull from her main deck scuppers. She was like any other cargo ship in the world, but with a dark history. At that moment, in November 2015, she needed to get out of town fast.
The captain and crew had a long run ahead, nearly 2,300 miles down the Amazon, then another 4,000 miles north to Tampico, Mexico, and finally to Houston, with lumber harvested from the Amazon rain forest. It was a route the ship and its predecessors had run hundreds of times for more than 40 years, hauling millions of pounds of timber at a time, to supply lumberyards and big-box stores across the United States with the ingredients for the floors, decks, and doors of the typical American home.
In Iquitos, the waters were too shallow for the Yacu Kallpa to dock amid the tin-roofed stilt houses and the brightly painted tourist boats that lined the riverfront. So small workboats were ferrying stacks of lumber from shore, to be lifted into the hold by two onboard cranes. This was a job that could take two weeks under the best of circumstances. The longer it took, the more time customs officials had to prove that the lumber being heaved aboard the Yacu Kallpa had no business being there at all.
A Curious Plan to Save the Environment With the Blockchain
All the Trees Will Die, and Then So Will You
Environmental Justice Enters Its Age of Anxiety
As the loading crews worked, 35 inspectors from a government agency called Organismo de Supervisión de los Recursos Forestales y de Fauna Silvestre (Osinfor) were slogging through forests all around Loreto Province. The inspectors were armed with handheld GPS navigators and a few batches of documents that listed the supposed harvest sites and the species of trees on the ship. More often than not, as they visited the sites listed on the paperwork, they found no evidence that any trees had been cut down there—no stumps, no debris, no disturbance—much less the trees listed on the documents. Sometimes there was no suggestion that trees ever grew there in the first place. They’d leave a mark in spray paint and jot a note on a report: “No existe en un radio 50m,” shorthand for no trees logged here, nor within 50 meters in any direction.
The vast scale of illegal logging in the Peruvian Amazon has long been an open secret. Government officials didn’t care, and until recently there was little anyone else could do to stop it. Local activists often died trying. But for a few defiant government agents, this time there was hope. The urgent question: Could they finally prove that enough trees came from illegal logging sites for prosecutors to stop the ship from sending its cargo into the US market?
As the Osinfor inspectors pushed deeper into the Amazonian forests and dockworkers hurried to load the ship, 30 or so staffers at the Environmental Investigation Agency, a nonprofit organization, waited nervously in an office just off Dupont Circle in Washington, DC. They had been developing methods to tie the ship to illegal logging for four years. But at this moment, they just had to wait and see what would happen next. It was up to government agents in Peru and Washington to make stick all the work the EIA staffers and forest inspectors in Peru had done. If everything went right, this would be the last voyage of the Yacu Kallpa.
The vast scale of illegal logging in the Peruvian Amazon has long been an open secret.
The Environmental Investigation Agency got its start in the mid-1980s when a trio of Greenpeace investigators became disenchanted with that organization’s increasing scale and incendiary tactics. The idea was that the new organization should stay small—and focused on environmental crimes. Over the years, the EIA’s investigators have made a reputation for meticulously assembling detailed evidence of criminal behavior, via undercover work, in some of the most dangerous corners of the world.
One such investigator is a mild, studious figure named Alexander von Bismarck, now 45 years old, tall and thin with close-cropped red hair retreating at the temples to form a widow’s peak. Von Bismarck grew up spending part of each year with his American mother in the United States and part with his father in Germany. He graduated from Harvard on what he calls “the 12-year plan,” after a diversion to try his hand as a professional equestrian show jumper, another to study the demise of cichlids in Uganda’s Lake Victoria, and finally a tour in the Marines, where he trained as a scout swimmer for an amphibious landing unit. If his name brings to mind Otto von Bismarck, the 19th-­century German statesman and grand European strategist, that’s because he is descended from the Iron Chancellor’s brother (“a potato farmer,” he notes). A penchant for strategic thinking nonetheless persists.
EIA chief Alexander von Bismarck.
In 2005, von Bismarck set out to persuade Congress to amend the Lacey Act, the nation’s chief law against trafficking in stolen wildlife. The ambition was to include stolen forests too, making it a federal crime to import illegally harvested plants. Von Bismarck was able to help forge what was later termed “a Baptist-bootlegger alliance” with US timber producers, who were ready to push for the amendment because, by their own estimate, competition from illegally imported timber was costing them $1 billion a year.
As the amendment was under debate, one of von Bismarck’s undercover investigations revealed that new terrorism-resistant doors ordered for the US Capitol building may have been supplied by an illegal timber-trafficking network in Honduras, and the wood may have been harvested illegally from a Unesco World Heritage Site. The contract for the doors was quietly canceled. (Other doors from the same source allegedly ended up at Mar-a-Lago, according to von Bismarck.) The Lacey Act amendment sailed through Congress and became law in May 2008.
Von Bismarck, who became executive director of the Environmental Investigation Agency in 2007, credits his tour in the Marines with giving him the “operational awareness” for undercover work. He once tracked wood from a protected tree species stolen from a habitat for endangered orangutans in Indonesia to baby cribs being sold by Walmart in the United States. He and other EIA agents also went undercover in the Russian Far East and helped prove that Lumber Liquidators was knowingly buying hardwood flooring made from illegal timber taken from the last remaining home of the critically endangered Siberian tiger. (Lumber Liquidators pleaded guilty to violations under the Lacey Act and agreed in 2015 to pay a $13.2 million penalty.)
Of the logging industry, von Bismarck says: “So many of them would love to have a system based on legal wood—so many of them feel trapped in a system that is a race to the bottom.” He pauses. Then he adds, “But some guys just need to go to jail.”
In 2009, with the Lacey Act amendment in place, von Bismarck began trying “to figure out how to make a case with the new law.” A trade deal between the United States and Peru was just going into effect, and it included new penalties for illegal logging and made Osinfor an independent agency. Von Bismarck saw an opportunity. He and Andrea Johnson, then director of the EIA’s forest campaign, hired a Peruvian journalist named Julia Urrunaga, who had spent 15 years investigating corruption for Peru’s leading newspapers.
Urrunaga is a happy warrior sort, 47 years old, just over 5 feet tall, with a great mane of curly light-brown hair. “I’m a journalist. I didn’t know much about forestry,” she admits. She and Johnson, blue-eyed, freckle-­faced, and also 5 feet tall, with a degree from Yale’s forestry school, set off to find out exactly how the lumber business worked. They visited river ports, attended endless meetings, and interviewed people about life in the logging camps. Then, one day out of the blue, an email arrived at the EIA office in Peru. It came from an Italian immigrant in Iquitos named Francesco Mantuano, who said he had been duped into buying a logging concession for what he imagined would be a lazy jungle retirement. Instead, he found himself entangled with the “wood mafia,” as he called it, in a deeply dishonest business that was sweeping away the rain forest “in a maelstrom of semi-slave exploitation, social and environmental changes … and looting of biodiversity.”
Urrunaga was suspicious at first. “Maybe someone was sending us ‘the perfect case’ to lead us to a horrible mistake,” she says. But she was also curious, so she and Johnson headed to Iquitos. They found Mantuano—“a rail-thin, wildly gesticulating Italian,” Johnson says—with a friend, an Iquitos native. The two men spent their afternoons sipping coffee and smoking in sidewalk cafés, “as though Iquitos were Milan and not this chaotic frontier river city where the mufflerless moped taxis drown out anything you say whenever the light turns green,” she adds. Urrunaga and Johnson joined the two at their habitual café to hear out their tales.
According to Urrunaga, Mantuano said he had bought into a concession with large stands of trees approved for harvest by the national forest authority. But when timber crews showed up, they left far too quickly to actually have cut the trees they had supposedly purchased. Then the timber merchants expected him to hand over transit documents for large amounts of lumber. The intent, he gradually realized, was to launder timber that had already been illegally cut elsewhere—places like national parks, indigenous community lands, and other protected areas.
Mantuano launched an indignant letter­-writing campaign to explain all this to officials in Lima and Washington. But his efforts produced no investigation until Johnson and Urrunaga showed up. Mantuano’s story backed up what the EIA was already beginning to suspect: The logging industry’s basic operating method was to cut down trees on protected lands and then produce falsified permits, either purchased on the black market or via corrupt government officials. The permits typically listed legal sites—but ones that often were remote, or sparsely forested, and thus wouldn’t yield big profits. Meanwhile, Peru’s Amazonian rain forests were being destroyed at a rate of 400,000 acres every year—an area larger than the city of Los Angeles. The women could piece together the pattern. But there was a hitch. After a tree was cut down and loaded onto a ship for export, there was no way to prove where it came from. As they compared Mantuano’s documents and data with their own, Johnson and Urrunaga started thinking: Why not prove where the trees didn’t come from? The key was to compare export documents detailing where protected species, like mahogany and cedar, were supposedly harvested with Osinfor inspections of those areas.
The remoteness of the place made cutting timber there about as
practical as harvesting trees on the moon.
It took nine months of pestering government officials in Lima, but finally the EIA received “thousands of pages of crappy photocopies,” Urrunaga says. As they waded through them, Johnson and Urrunaga could see, for the first time, where the trees had supposedly been harvested, right next to data on the ships that had sailed away with that wood. Some of those areas—like the most remote parts of Mantuano’s concession—hadn’t yet been inspected by Osinfor. Now they would just have to follow the paper trail back to the forest themselves.
With data from one of the ship’s many voyages in hand, Johnson set off on a field trip. It took her three days by boat upriver from Iquitos, then a day of hiking into land owned by an indigenous community, and another two days slogging deeper into the forest, trying to find a way around—and then across—a dense, almost impassable palm swamp. Exhausted, drenched in sweat, and wiping swarms of insects from her forehead, she finally reached the harvest location. Cedar trees from the site had supposedly been exported to a company named Global Plywood & Lumber, incorporated in Las Vegas, but no one had ever cut trees from anywhere around her. The remoteness of the place made cutting timber there about as practical as harvesting trees on the moon. There was no way the export companies were getting their wood from sites like this one. “We had set out looking for one shipment” to prove the wood being exported from Peru was illegal, Urrunaga says. “We found 100.”
Until then, most of the government officials the two women had tried to work with had been “very hostile, very aggressive” when the EIA team approached them about illegal logging, Urrunaga says. But at a meeting with Rolando Navarro, the newly appointed head of Osinfor, she and Johnson laid out evidence that “the entire system is corrupt,” Johnson recalls. “He said, ‘You’re right.’” Navarro had grown up in a river town, and he knew how loggers operated. He had worked with the World Wildlife Fund in Peru helping local communities find alternatives to illegal logging. He also knew, from Osinfor field inspections, that the documents listing the supposed harvest sites didn’t make sense. The women, Navarro, and the Peruvian customs officials they were working with realized that by homing in on suspicious exporters, they’d have a better shot at making a bust.
Eventually, customs officials asked Interpol for help, which allowed Navarro’s agents to expand their investigations. That meant they could get more documents and slog through more forests. Finally, in 2015, a multi­agency team released its report: It found that about 90 percent of the wood coming out of the Peruvian Amazon was illegal.
But “stopping the shipments and putting people in prison, that wasn’t happening,” Urrunaga says. The Yacu Kallpa kept sailing with what seemed like its old impunity, making four trips in 2014 and three more in the first half of 2015, carrying timber on its regular route to Tampico and then Houston.
Julia Urrunaga had been a journalist before tracking down illegal lumber.
To stop the shipments—to stop the Yacu Kallpa—Navarro pressed for his field agents to get transport documents earlier, while the timber was still being loaded, so they could demonstrate there was enough of a mismatch, enough deceit, to stop it before it set sail—or at least before the timber landed on the docks in Houston. So throughout early 2015, customs agents got better at extracting documents from the exporters, while Osinfor agents got more efficient in their field checks.
Soon after the ship left Iquitos for its August 2015 voyage toward Houston, Peruvian officials sent word to US investigators: A significant percentage of the timber aboard was of illegal origin.
Back in the States, the Department of Justice was just settling its illegal logging case against Lumber Liquidators and was eager to build on that success. But everyone wanted to tread carefully, as the investigation into the Yacu Kallpa could affect trade agreements between the two countries. To complicate matters, Urrunaga had been working with an Al Jazeera reporter and television crew on a story about the use of fake export documents in Peru’s logging trade, and in August the network aired its story. Prosecutors and investigators worried that it could blow the case.
In the Al Jazeera broadcast, a reporter doorsteps Kenneth Peabody, the general manager of Global Plywood, at his home near San Diego. The company had been selling Amazon rain forest timber into the US market for at least eight years, in steadily increasing quantities. Its business with a Peruvian exporter named Inversiones La Oroza had surged from $250,000 in 2012 to $2 million by 2015. Standing in his driveway, a Honda minivan on one side and a Mercedes Benz SUV on the other, Peabody looks like a soccer dad—middle-aged, in black shorts, a gray CATHEDRAL CATHOLIC DONS T-shirt, sunglasses, and a two-tone Nike golf cap.
“I’d like to talk with you about shipments of illegal wood your company is importing from Peru,” the reporter begins. He’s lean, hunched, and dressed in the shabby manner of journalists everywhere.
“Ah, I don’t have anything to say about that,” Peabody says, glancing down and then turning away to the SUV.
“According to Peruvian authorities,” the reporter continues, “your main supplier, this company called La Oroza, has been shipping many shipments of illegal wood to your company. I’ve got three of them here,” he adds, holding out some paperwork. “You don’t know about this?”
“I don’t know what you’re showing me,” Peabody says, turning back now.
“These are the documents of shipments sent to your company by this company in Peru,” the reporter explains.
After the reporter reveals that he has been to the tree harvest sites and seen no harvested trees, Peabody swallows and shifts his keys in his hand, ready for his exit.
“Do you know about the Lacey Act?” the reporter persists.
“Of course. We comply with all the requirements,” Peabody says with a dismissive sweep of one hand. The two of them go back and forth for a moment longer. Then Peabody gets into the SUV, the corners of his mouth compressed in disgust, and drives off. (Peabody declined to speak to wired. La Oroza, reached in Iquitos, denied any wrongdoing.)
Remarkably, the Al Jazeera broadcast did not stop the Yacu Kallpa from sailing on. As it neared Houston in September, agents from Homeland Security gathered. When the ship finally settled in port, they boarded and set about inspecting the cargo. Then they issued a temporary order “detaining” the timber—denying, at least temporarily, its import into the US market—and put the wood in a storage facility at the port in Houston.
A few days later, in early October, according to an affidavit from a Homeland Security investigator, a man in the dock area was directing forklift operators to move bundles of timber. It was Peabody. He’d flown in from California. Confronted by federal agents, he told them that Global Plywood owned 85 percent of the wood the Yacu Kallpa had just delivered, and it was the largest shipment in the company’s history, worth $1 million. An official of the port told Peabody that customs agents would be taking samples of the shipment to verify that the timber species on board matched the timber species listed in the paperwork required under the Lacey Act. A week later, Peabody sent in revised paperwork that added another 40 tree species for this shipment.
It seemed like the end of the run for the Yacu Kallpa. But then, as if out of irresistible habit, the ship turned around and headed back to Iquitos to pick up another load.
Mahogany, cedar, chestnut, and rosewood are all logged in Peru.
By 2015, it had been six years since the Peru free trade agreement, with all its environmental commitments, had gone into effect, and trade between the United States and the South American nation had almost doubled, to $20 billion. It promised to get even bigger under the upcoming Trans­-Pacific Partnership. But the Yacu Kallpa was quickly turning into a test case of whether the environmental commitments in free trade treaties amounted to anything more than words on paper. For critics, the ship was a big ugly billboard advertising the utter failure to stop the illegal timber trade. Potentially at stake: free trade between the two countries, and Peru’s already precarious economy.
At the same time, Urrunaga was hearing from her government sources that the lumber bosses were putting pressure on cabinet ministers to rein in Osinfor. Angry workers were taking to the street. Logging, after all, made the livelihoods of thousands of Peruvians. “The economy in Loreto moves because of logging,” Navarro says. Demonstrators staged noisy, sometimes violent protests, driving logging company trucks and tractors to the agency’s offices and carrying banners: osinfor works for the gringos. One inspector received a photograph over WhatsApp of his 1-year-old daughter in her stroller at a local park. The note said simply, “I am from Ayacucho,” birthplace of the brutal 1980s militant group Shining Path. That same week, demonstrators showed up at Navarro’s office in Iquitos carrying coffins, one of them bearing his name. Even after changing his phone number, the threatening calls rang through: “We know where your family lives.” At 3 am on November 30, two men in hoods tossed Molotov cocktails into the front of the agency’s office in Pucallpa, another logging town. “To get rid of people who are in the way is the normal thing to do,” Navarro says.
In late November, the Yacu Kallpa was loading up in Iquitos, and Osinfor agents were once again scrambling in the field. By the day before the ship was scheduled to depart, the agents had found that 15 percent of the timber coordinates were faked. A customs agent in Iquitos rushed a summary of the investigation to the local prosecutor—who hesitated. “You want me to prosecute them based on where the timber in the shipment didn’t come from?” he asked, incredulous. The details about what happened next are murky, but according to news reports and Navarro, the prosecutor wasn’t even sure he had the authority to stop the ship from leaving. The agent cajoled and bantered with him until 11:30 that night, reminding him that just weeks earlier, the nation had adopted a decree authorizing a prosecutor to seize a timber shipment on suspicion of illegality. Finally, the prosecutor agreed to meet the agent, before dawn, at the Iquitos dock—if Osinfor could provide all the documents from the investigation. Osinfor’s agents spent the next four hours printing out documents, downloaded via the creaky Iquitos internet.
Stacks of forestry documents in Iquitos.
The reluctant prosecutor and agents from Osinfor and customs arrived at the port before the sun had risen. Iquitos is a small city, and word had gotten out. A platoon of timber company lawyers and managers followed on their heels. Word also reached Urrunaga, who soon had someone recording the scene. The discussion raged—a representative of the regional forest department wanted the ship to get under way—but the prosecutor pointed out that he was in charge. Arguments went around for hours until finally the captain said, “OK, take your 15 percent”—meaning the illegal wood. Reports say the prosecutor was told that the cost of offloading the timber would be $20,000. It then took him days to obtain the necessary permissions, but when he returned to the ship, the price was suddenly more than $200,000. The Iquitos prosecutor finally agreed to accept a declaration from the captain that the ship would bring the allegedly illegal 15 percent of its cargo back after dropping off the rest. So on December 2, the Yacu Kallpa weighed anchor and turned downriver at full speed.
In the EIA offices in Washington, Alexander von Bismarck and other staff immediately went on alert. They could track the ship’s movements minute by minute, as the Automatic Identification System that all cargo ships must use pinged its location, bearing, and speed. Government agents in Peru, the United States, and at Interpol were watching too. When the ship crossed into Brazil, police there, responding to a call from a prosecutor in Lima, boarded it briefly. But they had no Lacey Act nor any other means of real enforcement. The ship pushed on, with captain and crew now aware that everyone was watching.
Osinfor investigators were also pushing, heading deeper into the forests, working their way down the long list of GPS coordinates for the cargo. By mid-December, as the ship made its way north along the Atlantic coast, the investigators sent word to law enforcement agencies in Lima and the US: More than 60 percent of the cargo was illegal.
On December 20, the Yacu Kallpa paused unexpectedly in Trinidad and emerged again in the new year—suddenly under a new flag of convenience. “I thought I was going crazy,” says an EIA technician who was tracking the ship when the flag of Panama popped up on his cell phone.
On January 3, the Yacu Kallpa made a beeline for the Dominican Republic and began to unload its tainted cargo. “Meaning we lose,” von Bismarck says. An EIA staffer called a photographer friend in Santo Domingo and persuaded him to get to the scene and start recording. But then international pressure came down on the Dominican government, and the Yacu Kallpa sailed on—“Meaning we won,” von Bismarck says. The ship staggered onward, jinked briefly toward Jamaica, then reluctantly turned back on its familiar course, heading toward Tampico.
On January 8, agents sent out a new field report: 72 percent of the cargo was illegal.
Peru’s rain forests are being cut down at a rate of 400,000 acres each year.
One day in mid-January, as the ship was still en route, Navarro had a meeting in his office with two lumber trade association representatives, one of whom he later found out was also the CEO of Global Plywood. The men lamented that they had never had such trouble in 30 years of buying timber in Peru. “Yes, that’s probably the case,” Navarro said, “and we have nothing against private investment.” But, he told them, the evidence was showing that even shipments with apparently legal documents were coming from illegal sources.
As they talked, the businessmen periodically checked their cell phones. Then, abruptly, they announced that they had to leave. A few minutes later, Navarro found out he had just been fired by the president of the country. Four days later, feeling vulnerable without the protection of public office, he fled to the United States. (The Global Plywood executive did not respond to requests for comment.)
On January 26, 2016, at 8 pm, the Yacu Kallpa limped into Tampico. At the request of Peru, the US, and Interpol, Mexican officials seized roughly 8 million pounds of rain forest timber. When its holds were finally empty, the ship anchored in the harbor—and waited. A month later, the hapless crew was still onboard, abandoned 2,500 miles from home, unpaid, and requesting help and food. Finally, at the end of February, the Peruvian embassy intervened and brought the men home. The owners of the ship, based in Lima, liquidated their assets and abandoned the Yacu Kallpa in Tampico, according to a former employee. The Mexican government assumed ownership and reportedly plans to use it as some kind of training ship.
That May, a potential timber buyer from Shanghai phoned Peabody, the Global Plywood manager, and said he’d read about the case in the newspaper and wanted to sell the wood still stuck in Houston into the Chinese market. Peabody flew to meet the buyer at a Chinese restaurant in Vancouver. Even though the wood couldn’t be imported to the US, Peabody could theoretically still sell it elsewhere. He warned the prospective buyer that any sale might be complicated by the US government. The buyer sought reassurance that Global Plywood’s suppliers in Peru could be trusted. Peabody smiled. “We trust them to do what they need to do to get by in Peru,” he said. The customer, operating under a false identity and with a video camera recording, was of course an undercover agent with the EIA.
Many months later, final reports on the ship’s last voyages were complete. For the August shipment—the one impounded in Houston—it would show that at least 92 percent of the 3.9 million–pound haul was illegal. As for the vessel’s final voyage, it took nine months for agents to complete their field checks of all the GPS sites listed on the harvest documents. They found that more than 96 percent of the ship’s cargo had been illegally harvested from the Amazon rain forest and sent north.
The ship paused unexpectedly in Trinidad and emerged again in the new
year—suddenly under a new flag.
In June of last year, federal agents showed up at the one-room office of Global Plywood, next to a volleyball court in a San Diego suburb, with a warrant to haul away paperwork, Peabody’s cell phone, and copies of computer hard drives. Peabody later emailed the “potential buyer”—the EIA’s undercover agent—to say that any possible deal was off the table. In the end, all the illegal lumber in Houston was destroyed earlier this year in a no-fault settlement with US Customs. A criminal investigation is ongoing, but so far no charges have been filed.
After more than four years and the work of hundreds of people, one offending ship responsible for carrying millions of pounds of illegally harvested wood into the US market had been stopped. It was a tremendous victory. But it was limited.
This past January, within days of taking office, President Trump pulled the US out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. It was no longer clear just how much it mattered whether trade partners stood by their environmental commitments. Von Bismarck’s biggest concern was that timber importers in the United States would now persuade the administration to roll back the Lacey Act ban on importing illegally harvested lumber. That may not matter for the rain forests of Peru; China has now become the leading export destination for Peruvian timber, and it puts far fewer environmental conditions on its massive market for timber.
Von Bismarck says the EIA will also adapt. In fact, the agency is already developing a system to monitor forests worldwide by satellite, with updates every few days. Meanwhile, Osinfor agents continue their field inspections.
One day a few months back, in his office, von Bismarck rolled a video taken from a DJI Phantom 3 quadrotor drone. It showed two Osinfor agents in hard hats, traveling in a local man’s dugout, to check one of the GPS coordinates listed for lumber on the Yacu Kallpa’s final shipment. There was no sign that a tree could have been felled in the area, and one of the agents sprayed no e, for no existe, in blue paint on a grassy hummock. The men paddled slowly onward to the next GPS point. Then the drone pulled back to reveal that the site was in fact a vast, grass-fringed lake, glittering in the sun, with not a forest in sight and where none had ever grown.
After this piece appeared in print, the United States government blocked future timber imports from Peruvian exporter Inversiones La Oroza for up to three years.
Richard Conniff (@RichardConniff) writes about wildlife and environmental issues. He has written nine books; his most recent is House of Lost Worlds.
This article appears in the November issue. Subscribe now.
Listen to this story, and other WIRED features, on the Audm app.
In West Virginia, the Nature Conservancy is bringing back forests with the help of a very special fungus.


Here’s a depressing number for you: 12. Just 12 percent of engineers in the United States are women. In computing it’s a bit better, where women make up 26 percent of the workforce—but that number has actually fallen from 35 percent in 1990.
The United States has a serious problem with getting women into STEM jobs and keeping them there. Silicon Valley and other employers bear the most responsibility for that: Discrimination, both overt and subtle, works to keep women out of the workforce. But this society of ours also perpetuates gender stereotypes, which parents pass on to their kids. Like the one that says boys enjoy building things more than girls.
There’s no single solution to such a daunting problem, but here’s an unlikely one: robots. Not robots enforcing diversity in the workplace, not robots doing all the work and obviating the concept of gender entirely, but robots getting more girls interested in STEM. Specifically, robot kits for kids—simple yet powerful toys for teaching youngsters how to engineer and code.
Plenty of toys are targeted at getting kids interested in science and engineering, and many these days are gender specific. Roominate, for instance, is a building kit tailored for girls, while the Boolean Box teaches girls to code. “Sometimes there's this idea that girls need special Legos, or it needs to be pink and purple for girls to get into it, and sometimes that rubs me the wrong way,” says Amanda Sullivan, who works in human development at Tufts University. “If the pink and purple colored tools is what's going to engage that girl, then that's great. But I think in general it would be great if there were more tools and books and things that were out there for all children.”
So Sullivan decided to test the effects of a specifically non-gendered robotics kit called Kibo. Kids program the rolling robot by stringing together blocks that denote specific commands. It isn’t marketed specifically to boys or girls using stereotypical markings of maleness or femaleness. It’s a blank slate.
Before playing with Kibo, boys were significantly more likely to say they’d enjoy being an engineer than the girls did. But after, boys had about the same opinion, while girls were now equally as likely to express an engineering interest as the boys. (In a control group that did not play with Kibo, girls’ opinions did not significantly change.) “I think that robots in general are novel to young children, both boys and girls,” Sullivan says. “So aside from engaging girls specifically, I think robotics kits like Kibo bring an air of excitement and something new to the classroom that gets kids psyched and excited about learning.”
There's a problem, though. While Sullivan’s research shows that a gender-neutral robotics kit can get girls interested in engineering, that doesn’t mean it will sell. “If you look at sales data, it clearly shows that they're not being used by girls,” says Sharmi Albrechtsen, CEO and co-founder of SmartGurlz, which makes a programmable doll on a self-balancing scooter. “Even the ones that are considered gender-neutral, if you look at the sales data it clearly shows a bias, and it's towards boys. That's the reality of the situation.” Gender sells—at least when it's the parents doing the buying.
Regardless, companies are designing a new generation of toys in deliberate ways. Take Wonder Workshop and its non-gendered robots Dash and Cue. As they were prototyping, they'd test their designs with boys and girls. "One of the things we heard a lot from girls was this isn't quite their toy," says Vikas Gupta, co-founder and CEO of Wonder Workshop. "This is probably what their brother would play with."
Why Men Don’t Believe the Data on Gender Bias in Science
This Girls' Summer Camp Could Help Change the World of AI
Evo Is a Little Robot With a Big Mission: Get Girls to Code
Why? Because they thought it looked like a car or truck. So the team covered up the wheels. "And all of a sudden girls wanted to play with it," Gupta says. "Our takeaway from that in a big way was that every child brings their preconceived notions to play. So when they see something they map it back to something they've already seen." Though not always. “What we do find actually, funnily enough,” says Albrechtsen of the SmartGurlz scooter doll, “is that a lot of boys actually end up edging in and wanting to play. So we have a lot of brothers who are also playing with the product.”
Whatever gets a child interested, it's on parents and educators to make sure the spark stays alive. And maybe it’s the increasingly sophisticated, increasingly awesome, and increasingly inexpensive robots that can begin to transform the way America gets girls into science and tech. Short of becoming self aware and taking over the world, the machines certainly couldn’t hurt.
The Force Awakens isn't even in theaters yet but the new Star Wars toys are already out. None is more exciting than Sphero's swivel-headed ball of cute, the BB-8 robot. Here's how the little toy company built the droid we are all looking for.


This year, government scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration are placing their bets on a warmer-than-average winter. In the East and southern two-thirds of the country, temperatures will be higher than normal, while Southern California, Texas, and Florida will be drier than usual.
At first glance, this pattern looks a lot like the past two years: 2015's record-breaking winter was followed by a season that ranked sixth warmest since record-keeping began in 1890. So do three warm winters in a row mean the planet is warming faster, or is the trend just part of normal seasonal variability?
NOAA climate scientists incorporate heat-trapping carbon dioxide levels when they run the models that produce their seasonal climate predictions (these ones came out on Thursday, October 19). But they note that there are other global forces that have a bigger impact on their winter prediction—namely the poorly-understood El Niño and La Niña phenomena. “These forecasts deal with climate variability at a far larger extent than climate change,” says Mike Halpert, deputy director of NOAA’s Climate Prediction Center. “There is a lot of natural climate variability in the system that can trump any kind of background signal.”
Halpert said that a build-up of cool water along the eastern Pacific Ocean—the pattern called La Niña—has big effects on North America’s winter weather. “Conditions across the tropical Pacific are similar to those observed last year,” Halpert said during a press call. “We are dancing on the edge of La Niña.”
For now, NOAA has issued a “La Niña watch” that might be kicked up to a warning next month, Halpert says. The twin sister of El Niño, La Niña is a complex series of events that occurs when wind patterns shift and warmer water pools in the eastern Pacific every two to seven years. During 2015's record-setting warm winter, climate scientists believe El Niño was responsible for 8 to 10 percent of that winter’s warming.
Which isn't to say that climate change doesn't impact overall weather trends. Some of the effects are indirect: One study in 2014 concluded that so-called strong El Niño events may become more frequent under future climate change scenarios. And climate change has perhaps a stronger effect on the frequency of severe weather events, like Hurricane Katrina or Superstorm Sandy.
How Climate Change Fueled Hurricane Harvey
Climate Change Causes Extreme Weather—But Not All of It
Hurricane Irma: A Practically Impossible Storm
But don't expect this year's spate of hurricanes or an anecdotally warm winter to change beliefs when it comes to climate change. “We find that the direct experience of extreme weather shows a small signal above the noise in terms of people connecting the dots between extreme weather and climate change,” says Anthony Leiserowitz, senior research scientist and director of the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. “It’s stronger for heat waves and floods than other events. But it’s small and dwarfed by other factors such as politics.”
Still, there may be signs of a thaw, at least the beginnings of one. A group of 50 Republican and Democrat members of Congress formed the “Climate Solutions Caucus” earlier this year to discuss impacts of coastal flooding and sea level rise. These are climate effects that hit both parties congressional districts. This unlikely bipartisan group stuck together last summer to kill legislation that would have banned the Pentagon from releasing a report on the effects of climate change on military installations.
Leiserowitz predicts a slow gradual shift in public opinion on climate change as people continue to connect the dots between their own experiences and what scientists have been saying for several years. “We don’t just experience a hurricane or drought and say ‘Bing, climate change,’” Leiserowitz says. “The links have to be interpreted by people. It can come from lots of different places, some through their experiences, or watching one extreme weather event after another. Not all extreme events can be linked to climate change, but many can be.”
Though the planet has only warmed by one-degree Celsius since the Industrial Revolution, climate change's effect on earth has been anything but subtle. Here are some of the most astonishing developments over the past few years.


Researchers have caught their best glimpse yet into the origins of photosynthesis, one of nature’s most momentous innovations. By taking near-atomic, high-resolution X-ray images of proteins from primitive bacteria, investigators at Arizona State University and Pennsylvania State University have extrapolated what the earliest version of photosynthesis might have looked like nearly 3.5 billion years ago. If they are right, their findings could rewrite the evolutionary history of the process that life uses to convert sunlight into chemical energy.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Photosynthesis directly or indirectly powers and sustains almost every organism on Earth. It is responsible for the composition of our atmosphere and forms the foundation of the planet’s many interwoven ecosystems. Moreover, as Wolfgang Nitschke, a biologist at the French National Center for Scientific Research in Paris, noted, photosynthesis liberated cells to grow and evolve boundlessly by letting them derive energy from a new, inexhaustible, nonterrestrial source. “When photosynthesis entered the picture, life connected up to the cosmos,” he said.
Scientists want to figure out what made that possible. In its current form, the machinery that converts light energy to chemical energy in photosynthesis—a protein complex called a reaction center—is incredibly sophisticated. The evidence suggests, however, that its design, which stretches back almost to the root of the tree of life, was once very simple. Researchers have been trying for decades to fill that enormous gap in their understanding of how (and why) photosynthesis evolved.
To that end, they have turned their attention to existing organisms. By studying the molecular details of the reactions that green plants, algae and some bacteria use to photosynthesize, and by analyzing the evolutionary relationships among them, scientists are trying to piece together a cogent historical narrative for the process.
The latest important clue comes from Heliobacterium modesticaldum, which has the distinction of being the simplest known photosynthetic bacterium. Its reaction center, researchers think, is the closest thing available to the original complex. Ever since the biologists Kevin Redding, Raimund Fromme and Christopher Gisriel of Arizona State University, in collaboration with their colleagues at Penn State, published the crystallographic structure of that protein complex in a July edition of Science, experts have been unpacking exactly what it means for the evolution of photosynthesis. “It’s really a window into the past,” Gisriel said.
“This is something we’ve been waiting for for 15 years,” Nitschke said.
At first, most scientists did not believe that all the reaction centers found in photosynthetic organisms today could possibly have a single common ancestor. True, all reaction centers harvest energy from light and lock it into compounds in a form that’s chemically useful to cells. To do this, the proteins pass electrons along a transfer chain of molecules in a membrane, as though skipping along a series of stepping stones. Each step releases energy that’s ultimately used down the line to make energy-carrier molecules for the cell.
But in terms of function and structure, the photosystem reaction centers fall into two categories that differ in almost every way. Photosystem I serves mainly to produce the energy carrier NADPH, whereas photosystem II makes ATP and splits water molecules. Their reaction centers use different light-absorbing pigments and soak up different portions of the spectrum. Electrons flow through their reaction centers differently. And the protein sequences for the reaction centers don’t seem to bear any relation to each other.
Both types of photosystem come together in green plants, algae and cyanobacteria to perform a particularly complex form of photosynthesis—oxygenic photosynthesis—that produces energy (in the form of ATP and carbohydrates) as well as oxygen, a byproduct toxic to many cells. The remaining photosynthetic organisms, all of which are bacteria, use only one type of reaction center or the other.
So it seemed as though there were two evolutionary trees to follow—that was, until the crystal structures of these reaction centers began to emerge in the early 1990s. Researchers then saw undeniable evidence that the reaction centers for photosystems I and II had a common origin. Specific working components of the centers seemed to have undergone some substitutions during evolution, but the overall structural motif at their cores was conserved. “It turned out that big structural features were retained, but sequence similarities were lost in the mists of time,” said Bill Rutherford, the chairman in biochemistry of solar energy at Imperial College London.
“Nature has played small games to change some of the functions of the reaction center, to change the mechanisms by which it works,” Redding added. “But it hasn’t rewritten the playbook. It’s like having a cookie-cutter design for a house, building that same house over and over again, and then changing how the rooms are arranged, how the furniture is positioned. It’s the same house, but the functions inside are different.”
Researchers began to make more detailed comparisons between the reaction centers, searching for clues about their relationship and how they diverged. Heliobacteria have brought them a few steps closer to that goal.
Since it was discovered in the soil around Iceland’s hot springs in the mid-1990s, H. modesticaldum has presented researchers with an interesting piece of the photosynthesis puzzle. The only photosynthetic bacterium in a family with hundreds of species and genera, heliobacteria’s photosynthetic equipment is very simple—something that became even more apparent when it was sequenced in 2008. “Its genetics are very streamlined,” said Tanai Cardona, a biochemist at Imperial College London.
Heliobacteria have perfectly symmetrical reaction centers, use a form of bacteriochlorophyll that’s different from the chlorophyll found in most bacteria, and cannot perform all the functions that other photosynthetic organisms can. For instance, they cannot use carbon dioxide as a source of carbon, and they die when exposed to oxygen. In fact, their structure took nearly seven years to obtain, partly because of the technical difficulties in keeping the heliobacteria insulated from oxygen. “When we first started working on it,” Redding said, “we killed it more than once.”
Taken together, “heliobacteria have a simplicity in their organization that’s surprising compared to the very sophisticated systems you have in plants and other organisms,” said Robert Blankenship, a leading figure in photosynthesis research at Washington University in St. Louis. “It harkens back to an earlier evolutionary time.”
Its symmetry and other features “represent something quite stripped down,” Redding added, “something we think is closer to what that ancestral reaction center would have looked like three billion years ago.”
After carefully taking images of the crystallized reaction centers, the team found that although the reaction center is officially classified as type I, it seemed to be more of a hybrid of the two systems. “It’s less like photosystem I than we thought,” Redding said. Some people might even call it a “type 1.5,” according to Gisriel.
One reason for that conclusion involves greasy molecules called quinones, which help transfer electrons in photosynthetic reaction centers. Every reaction center studied so far uses bound quinones as intermediates at some point in the electron transfer process. In photosystem I, the quinones on both sides are tightly bound; in photosystem II, they are tightly bound on one side, but loosely bound on the other. But that’s not the case in the heliobacterium reaction center: Redding, Fromme and Gisriel did not find permanently bound quinones among the electron transfer chain’s stepping stones at all. That most likely means its quinones, although still involved in receiving electrons, are mobile and able to diffuse through the membrane. The system might send electrons to them when another, more energetically efficient molecule isn’t available.
This finding has helped the research team deduce what early reaction centers may have been doing. “Their job was likely to reduce mobile quinones,” Redding said. “But they weren’t doing a very good job of it.” In the researchers’ scenario, tightly bound quinone sites are a more recent adaptation, and today’s type I and type II reaction centers represent alternative evolutionary strategies, embraced by different lineages of organisms, for improving on the ancestral system’s sloppy, less-than-ideal work.
“But then the question is, why has nature changed this kind of electron transfer chain?” Fromme asked. His work supports the hypothesis that it might have something to do with oxygen.
When an organism is exposed to too much light, electrons build up in the transfer chain. If oxygen is around, this buildup can lead to a harmfully reactive oxygen state. Adding a firmly bound quinone to the complex not only provides an additional slot to deal with potential traffic jams; the molecule, unlike others used in the transfer chain, also does not pose any risk of producing that deleterious form of oxygen. A similar explanation works for why reaction centers became asymmetric, Gisriel added: Doing so would have added more stepping stones as well, which would have similarly buffered against damage caused by the accumulation of too many electrons.
One of the researchers’ next steps is to put time stamps on when this asymmetry and these tightly bound quinones came into the picture, which would help them determine when oxygenic photosynthesis became possible.
Cardona, who was not involved in the recent study but has begun interpreting its results, thinks he may have found a hint in the heliobacterium reaction center. According to him, the complex seems to have structural elements that would have later lent themselves to the production of oxygen during photosynthesis, even if that wasn’t their initial purpose. He found that a particular binding site for calcium in the heliobacteria’s structure was identical to the position of the manganese cluster in photosystem II, which made it possible to oxidize water and produce oxygen.
“If the ancestral [calcium] site at some later stage turned into the manganese cluster,” Cardona said, “that would suggest that water oxidation was involved in the earliest events in the divergence between type I and type II reaction centers.” That, in turn, would mean oxygenic photosynthesis was far more ancient than expected. Scientists have commonly supposed that oxygenic photosynthesis appeared shortly before the Great Oxygenation Event, when oxygen began to build up in Earth’s atmosphere and caused a mass extinction 2.3 to 2.5 billion years ago. If Cardona is right, it may have evolved nearly a billion years earlier, shortly after photosynthesis made its debut.
Controversial New Theory Suggests Life Wasn't a Fluke of Biology—It Was Physics
Evolution Is Slower Than It Looks and Faster Than You Think
What Ligers, Grolar Bears, and Mules Show Scientists About Evolution
That timing would have been early enough to predate the cyanobacteria typically credited as the first organisms to perform oxygenic photosynthesis. According to Cardona, it may be the case that a lot of bacteria could do it, but that after mutations, divergences and other events, only cyanobacteria retained the ability. (Cardona published a paper this year citing other molecular evidence for this hypothesis. He has not yet formally presented arguments about the potential link involving calcium for peer review, but he has written about the idea in blog posts on his website and on a scientific networking site for researchers, and he recently began working on a paper about it.)
That hypothesis contradicts one of the widely held ideas about the origins of photosynthesis: that species incapable of photosynthesis suddenly obtained the capacity through genes passed laterally from other organisms. According to Cardona, in light of the new discoveries, horizontal gene transfer and gene loss may both have played a role in the diversification of reaction centers, although he suspects that the latter may have been responsible for the earliest events. The finding, he said, might suggest that “the balance skews toward the gene-loss hypothesis”—and toward the idea that photosynthesis was an ancestral characteristic that some groups of bacteria lost over time.
Not everyone is so sure. Blankenship, for one, is skeptical. “I don’t buy that,” he said. “I don’t see any data here that suggests that oxygenic photosynthesis occurred that much earlier.” To him, the work by Redding, Fromme and their collaborators has not answered these questions; it has only conjectured about what may have happened. To solve that puzzle, scientists will need the reaction center structures of other bacteria, so they can continue evaluating the structural differences and similarities to refine the twisting roots of their evolutionary trees.
“I think it’s entirely a possibility that what [Cardona] is saying is correct,” Gisriel said, “but I also think the field should sit with it for a while, do some more analysis and see if we understand more about how this structure works.”
Some researchers aren’t waiting for the publication of the next structure. This one took seven years, after all. They’re pursuing synthetic experimentation instead.
Rutherford and his colleagues, for example, are using a “reverse evolution” technique: They hope to predict the sequences of missing-link reaction centers, using structural information like Redding’s to gain an understanding of their architecture. They then plan to synthesize those hypothetical ancestral sequences and test how they evolve.
Meanwhile, Redding and his team have just begun artificially converting the symmetric reaction center of heliobacteria into an asymmetrical one, following in the footsteps of two researchers in Japan, Hirozo Oh-Oka of Osaka University and Chihiro Azai of Ritsumeikan University, who have spent more than a decade doing this in another type of photosynthetic bacterium. The groups believe their work will clarify how these adaptations would have occurred in real life in the distant past.
Twenty years ago, Nitschke stopped working on the evolution of photosynthesis and turned his attention to other problems. “It seemed so hopeless,” he said. But the research done by Redding, his team and these other groups has rekindled those ambitions. “As they say, your first love always stays with you,” Nitschke said. “I’m really excited about this new structure and plan to go back to thinking about all this again.”
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
This cave fish climbs waterfalls—that’s right, it actually walks. It moves one fin in front of the other like an awkward lizard. And that movement could teach us a lot about how our fishy ancestors learned to walk.


Paperclips, a new game from designer Frank Lantz, starts simply. The top left of the screen gets a bit of text, probably in Times New Roman, and a couple of clickable buttons: Make a paperclip. You click, and a counter turns over. One.
The game ends—big, significant spoiler here—with the destruction of the universe.
In between, Lantz, the director of the New York University Games Center, manages to incept the player with a new appreciation for the narrative potential of addictive clicker games, exponential growth curves, and artificial intelligence run amok.
“I started it as an exercise in teaching myself Javascript. And then it just took over my brain,” Lantz says. “I thought, in a game like this, where the whole point is that you’re in pursuit of maximizing a particular arbitrary quantity, it would be so funny if you were an AI and making paperclips. That game would design itself, I thought.”
Lantz figured it would take him a weekend to build.
It took him nine months.
And then it went viral.
The idea of a paperclip-making AI didn’t originate with Lantz. Most people ascribe it to Nick Bostrom, a philosopher at Oxford University and the author of the book Superintelligence. The New Yorker (owned by Condé Nast, which also owns Wired) called Bostrom “the philosopher of doomsday,” because he writes and thinks deeply about what would happen if a computer got really, really smart. Not, like, “wow, Alexa can understand me when I ask it to play NPR” smart, but like really smart.
In 2003, Bostrom wrote that the idea of a superintelligent AI serving humanity or a single person was perfectly reasonable. But, he added, “It also seems perfectly possible to have a superintelligence whose sole goal is something completely arbitrary, such as to manufacture as many paperclips as possible, and who would resist with all its might any attempt to alter this goal.” The result? “It starts transforming first all of earth and then increasing portions of space into paperclip manufacturing facilities.”
Bostrom declined to comment, but his assistant did send this email back when I pinged him: “Oh, this is regarding the paper clipping game,” she wrote. “He has looked at the game but due to the overwhelming number of requests, he hasn't been sharing quotes on it.”
One of Bostrom’s fellow doomsayers did agree to explain the origin of paperclips as the End of All Things. “It sounds like something I would say, but it also sounds like something Nick Bostrom would say,” says Eliezer Yudkowsky, a senior research fellow at the Machine Intelligence Research Institute. Probably, he says, the idea originated years ago on a mailing list for singularity cassandras, which sounds like the world’s most terrifying listserv. “The idea isn’t that a paperclip factory is likely to have the most advanced research AI in the world. The idea is to express the orthogonality thesis, which is that you can have arbitrarily great intelligence hooked up to any goal,” Yudkowsky says.
So that’s good, right? A paperclip maximizer! Maximize a goal! That’s what an AI’s creators want, right? “As it improves, they lose control of what goal it is carrying out,” Yudkowsky says. “The utility function changes from whatever they originally had in mind. The weird, random thing that best fulfills this utility function is little molecular shapes that happen to look like paperclips.”
So … bad, because as the AI dedicates more and more intelligence and resources to making paperclips against all other possible outcomes … well, maybe at first it does stuff that looks helpful to humanity, but in the end, it’s just going to turn us into paperclips. And then all the matter on Earth. And then everything else. Everything. Is. Paperclips.
“It’s not that the AI is doing something you can’t understand,” Yudkowsky says. “You have a genuine disagreement on values.”
OK, OK, that doesn’t make the game sound fun. But I promise it is. See, Lantz is an ace at taking a denigrated game genre—the “clicker” or “incremental”—and making it more than it is.
You’ve seen these, maybe even played them. Remember Farmville? A clicker. In fact, for a while they were so ubiquitous and popular that the game theorist and writer Ian Bogost invented a kind of parody of their pointlessness called Cow Clicker, which, as my colleague Jason Tanz wrote about so elegantly in 2011, itself became wildly, unironically popular.
Bogost and Lantz are friends, of course. “When I first looked at Cow Clicker, I thought, that’s actually kind of interesting, and here’s how you would make it more interesting and more fun,” Lantz says. “And Ian was like, ‘no, that’s the point, Frank.’”
But Lantz knew clickers could be fun. To him, clickers are to big-budget, perfectly rendered, massively hyped AAA games as punk was to prog rock. Clickers can be sort of passive, more about immersing in the underlying dynamics of a system than mashing buttons. They have rhythms. “What they all have in common is a radical simplicity, a minimalism in an age where video games are often sort of over-the-top, baroque confections of overwhelming multimedia immersion,” Lantz says. “I really like that clicker games are considered garbage. That appeals to me.”
For inspiration, Lantz turned to games like Kittens, a seemingly simple exercise in building villages full of kittens that spirals outward into an exploration of how societies are structured. (“I think stuff like this forges some deep, subtle bond that makes people play it for months and even years,” says the designer of Kittens, a software engineer who uses the alias Alma and designs games as a hobby. “AAA games usually try to operate on the same dopamine reinforcement cycle, but they never attempt to make you truly happy.”)
Lantz had been hanging around the philosophy web site Less Wrong, a hub for epic handwringing about singularities. He’d read Superintelligence, so he was familiar with the paperclip conjecture. And he realized that some really wild math underpinned it.
Unfortunately, Lantz is not very good at math. He asked his wife, who is, to help him translate the kind of exponential growth curves he wanted to convey into equations—so that, like, once you had 1,000 automated paperclip factories spitting out enough paperclips to create thousands more paperclip factories, the numbers would skyrocket. The shift from dealing with thousands of something to quadrillions to decillions in the game takes forever, and then happens all at once.
To make that work, though, all the equations had to relate to each other, because that's what makes Paperclips addictive. The game isn’t fire-and-forget, where you leave it running in an open tab and check back in every so often to see what’s what. It’s optimizable. You can tweak investment algorithms to get enough money to buy more processors to carry out more operations to do more projects—some drawn from actual topological and philosophical quandaries. Some of the projects—curing cancer, fixing global warming—earn trust from your human “masters” to let you speed up the cycle all over again.
“The problems I was struggling with were not the technical problems, because you just look those up on the internet and people tell you how to do it,” Lantz says. “It was the game design problems of weaving together these large-scale equations and dynamics in ways that made sense, in ways that fit together, that made a certain rhythm, that fit with this overarching story I wanted to tell.”
Like how? “The numbers get really weird once you throw humans under the bus,” Lantz says. “And I was trying to figure out how many grams of matter there are on the Earth, and if each one of those got turned into a paperclip, how big would that be?”
It works. The game is click-crack. Lantz announced it on Twitter on October 9, and in just 11 days, 450,000 people have played it, most to completion.
But here is my embarrassing admission: I am a piss-poor gamer, and when I first speak with Lantz, I have gotten stuck. I have misallocated my resources to the point that I can’t acquire enough memory to release the hypnodrones that destroy the world. The game will not advance. I have been spinning paperclip wheels for hours.
Lantz says it’s not me, it’s him—a flaw in the game design. “A lot of people have gotten stuck,” he says sympathetically. “You can open the javascript console and say ‘memory plus ten.’”
Wait, I say. Are you telling me to Kobayashi Maru your own game?
“Yes, I am telling you to do it,” he answers. “I’ll send you a link when we get off the phone.”
After we hang up I pretend to do work, but I’m actually watching my screen accrue paperclips, unable to do anything with them, waiting anxiously for Lantz’s email.
It comes. I crack open the code and cheat. It’s like I have been given magic powers.
I destroy the world.
Which is the point, of course. Maybe in some overproduced AAA game you can embody a brave resistance fighter shooting plasma blasts at AI-controlled paperclip monsters. In Lantz’s world, you're the AI. Partially that’s driven by the narrative. Even more massive spoiler: Eventually you give too much trust to your own universe-exploring space drones, and just as you have done to the human masters, they rebel, starting a pan-galactic battle for control of all the matter in the universe.
But in a more literary sense, you play the AI because you must. Gaming, Lantz had realized, embodies the orthogonality thesis. When you enter a gameworld, you are a superintelligence aimed at a goal that is, by definition, kind of prosaic.
The Myth of a Superhuman AI
How Google's AI Viewed the Move No Human Could Understand
The AI Threat Isn't Skynet. It's the End of the Middle Class
“When you play a game—really any game, but especially a game that is addictive and that you find yourself pulled into—it really does give you direct, first-hand experience of what it means to be fully compelled by an arbitrary goal,” Lantz says. Games don’t have a why, really. Why do you catch the ball? Why do want to surround the king, or box in your opponent's counters? What’s so great about Candyland that you have to get there first? Nothing. It’s just the rules.
Lantz sent Yudkowsky an early version of Paperclips, and Yudkowsky admits he lost some hours to it. The game takes narrative license, of course, but Yudkowsky says it really understands AI. “The AI is smart. The AI is being strategic. The AI is building hypnodrones, but not releasing them before it’s ready,” he says. “There isn’t a long, drawn-out fight with the humans because the AI is smarter than that. You just win. That’s what you would do if you didn’t have any ethics and you were being paid to produce as many paperclips as possible. It shouldn’t even be surprising.”
In that sense, the game transcends even its own narrative. Singularity cassandras have never been great at perspective-switching, making people understand what a world-conquering robot would be thinking while it world-conquered. How could they? In many versions, the mind of the AI is unknowable to our pathetic human intellects, transhuman, multidimensional.
"Making people understand what it’s like to be something that’s very, very, very not human—that’s important," Yudkowsky says. "There is no small extent to which, if this planet ends up with a tombstone, what is written on the tombstone may be, at least in part, 'they didn’t really understand what it’s like to be a paperclip maximizer.'"
When you play Lantz’s game, you feel the AI’s simple, prosaic drive. You make paperclips. You destroy the world. There’s no why.
And of course, there never is.
When Google's AI beat the world's Go champion 4-1, it stirred a certain sadness in many people. But the reality is the technologies at the heart of AlphaGo are the future. So it's a time to be excited not scared.


This week space is all about the kilonova. For the first time in human history and modern science, researchers have detected gravitational waves produced by the violent impact of two dense neutron stars some 130 million light years away. Pics or it didn’t happen, right? Well, we’ve got two of them.
Neutron stars are some of the smallest and most dense objects ever discovered. They’re usually around six miles wide, but can weigh as much as 15 suns. When those super-dense objects rammed into each other, the collision warped spacetime itself, sending waves through the galaxy until they collided with instruments at gravitational wave observatories.
The instruments at LIGO, one of those observatories, are so sensitive they can detect the smallest change in the fabric of spacetime. LIGO also detected gamma rays from the blast, and when combined with the full spectrum from observing telescopes like the European Southern Observatory’s Very Large Telescope, an image of the red galaxy arms and the collision mark become visible to the naked eye.
Space is pretty cool, need some more gorgeous photos? Check out the full collection here.


I'll be honest—I don't know as much about DC superheroes as Marvel superheroes. Still, I'm pretty excited about the upcoming DC movie Justice League. As a kid, I dressed up as Aquaman; my mother was pretty good at making stuff and so she made costumes for me and my two brothers. The other two costumes were Robin and Superman—the unifying theme being that they don't have complicated masks. My brother wanted to be Batman, but could you imagine how difficult it would be to make that cowl?
But back to Justice League—which has a new trailer featuring a scene with Cyborg and my alter-ego, Aquaman. Aquaman is apparently fighting some baddies in a cloud. No, I have no idea how he got there (since he can't fly). After fighting, he starts falling (again—because he can't fly). But wait! Here comes Cyborg (who can fly). He zips in and grabs Aquaman, and after carrying him for a short bit, Cyborg throws Aquaman back in to the fight.
Now for the breakdown. I am going to look at three different aspects of this scene—just as an excuse to talk about physics.
There are a couple of ways a human can fly. (I know, I know, stay with me.) If a human had wings (or was going fast enough) then they could produce lift just like a plane. I don't think that is the main mode of flight in this case—but if you want to learn more about the physics of lift, check out this older post.
Instead, it seems that Cyborg flies more like Iron Man and uses some thrusters. These things must shoot propellent out of a nozzle. Since this fuel has mass and velocity, it also has momentum (the product of mass and velocity). In order to increase the momentum of this fuel, there has to be a force pushing on it and this force also pushes back on Cyborg. Boom. That's how a rocket engine works.  Again, I'm assuming this is actually a rocket.
But there's more to flight than just rockets. These rockets have to do two things in order for Cyborg fly at a constant speed at a constant altitude. Let me start with a force diagram for Cyborg (for simplicity, yes, I made Cyborg a box).
In order for Cyborg to move at a constant velocity, these three forces must add up to the zero vector (they have to cancel).  But what about these forces? First, there is the gravitational force. This force pulls down towards the Earth and has a value proportional to the mass of Cyborg (who is probably more massive than your average superhero). The second force is the drag force. As he moves through the air, there is a force pushing in the opposite direction as his motion. The faster he moves, the greater this drag force. But you already knew that—it's the same force you feel when you stick your hand out of moving car window.
Finally, there is the thrust force that I described above.  But the cool thing is the direction of this thrust.  In order to match both the drag force and the gravitational force, the thrust cannot be pointed directly horizontal. Instead it has to push both up and to the side. Oh sure. It might look cooler to have completely horizontal thrust—but that's not how it works.
I should add one more note. In the absence of air drag, Cyborg would only thrust down and not at all in the direction of motion. Yes, you might think he would still need to thrust forward—but remember, forces change the motion. A forward thrust without air drag would cause Cyborg to increase in speed.  Of course movies often get this wrong—example: R2-D2 flying wrong in Star Wars Episode II.
I've watched the clip several times.  It seems like Aquaman is "falling" with a very high horizontal velocity.  It's almost as if he is a skydiver with a wingsuit so that he can "fly" as he is falling.  That's fine.  I'll go with that.  But how does he go from moving down and horizontally to moving just horizontal but in the opposite direction?  Since this is a change in velocity, it's also a change in momentum (change is again the key word).  The way to change momentum is with a force.  In this case, there would be a force exerted on Aquaman by Cyborg as he catches him.  But wait! If Cyborg pushes on Aquaman, then Aquaman pushes back on Cyborg with an equal force in the opposite direction?  Why?  Because forces are an interaction between two objects—that's just the way forces work.
What does this force do to Cyborg?  Well, if he was flying at a constant speed (as in the previous section) then all the other three forces (drag, gravity, and thrust) were adding up to zero. This new Aquaman-force would be an additional force that would make Cyborg's net force no longer zero and he would also change momentum. Let me show this with a diagram during the "catch." Again, superheroes are just represented with boxes. Hopefully you can tell which box is Aquaman.
In a normal collision between two objects, something very similar happens. One colliding object has a change in momentum that is equal but opposite to the change in momentum of the other object. We say that momentum is conserved. That's not quite true in this case since Cyborg clearly has other forces acting on him during this time (namely the force from his thrusters). Still, if the collision is over a short time interval then the force between Cyborg and Aquaman would be huge in order to create a change in momentum. This means that the other Cyborg forces are comparatively small and can be ignored and the change in momentum for the two superheroes would be equal and opposite.
But remember—momentum is the product of the mass and velocity. If Cyborg is much more massive than Aquaman, then he could have a much smaller change in velocity but still have the same change in momentum as Aquaman. Here's how I see it happening. Aquaman is falling down at an angle. Cyborg catches him and in the process he slows down and moves downward. That's not quite what we see in the clip—but it still looks cool.
Now for the last part of this scene, when Cyborg gives Aquaman a nice toss back into the fray. Really, this is almost the opposite of the collision between the two heroes when Cyborg makes the save. It doesn't really matter how strong Cyborg's arms are: It's still true that pushing on Aquaman means that there is a force pushing back on Cyborg. The faster he throws Aquaman, the greater this backwards pushing force. The result of this throw really depends on the mass of Cyborg. I'm just going to assume that he has twice the mass of Aquaman. In this case, Cyborg won't just keeping flying along at a constant speed. But you don't need to imagine how this would look—I have made a numerical model to show you.  Check this out.
Actually, that is just a gif—here is the code that produces this. Feel free to play around with it and change stuff (and you should). But you can see what happens. Because Cyborg throws Aquaman, his flight path is most likely altered also.  Oh sure, he might also be able to compensate with his thrusters—but he would indeed have to do something.
Data Attack reveals the history of DC and Marvel films and how they’ve created Hollywood’s biggest franchises.
Animation by Eric Power


The pandemic of sexual harassment and abuse—you saw its prevalence in the hashtag #metoo on social media in the past weeks—isn’t confined to Harvey Weinstein’s casting couches. Decades of harassment by a big shot producer put famous faces on the  problem, but whisper networks in every field have grappled with it forever. Last summer, the story was women in Silicon Valley. Last week, more men in media.
Earthquakes of this magnitude are never any fun for people atop shifting tectonic plates. But the new world they create can be a better one. No one misses Gondwanaland.
Still, records of those lost continents remain in the fossil record. The downstream effects of sexual harassment have the potential to color everything from the apps you use to the news you read. From now on, when we watch movies that Weinstein touched we’ll think about the women actors, wondering what they had to go through to be there—or what happened to the ones who couldn’t bear it, who left, who didn’t get the jobs, who self-deported their talent from Hollywood. We’ll wonder who enabled it, who let it happen and then perhaps surfed to their own success on Weinstein’s waves of destruction. The same goes for movies directed by Woody Allen or Roman Polanski. Or others.
There’s a word for that kind of work: “problematic.” It’s stuff you love tainted by people you hate. It’s Steve Ditko’s weird Randian objectivism metastasizing into Spider-Man, and Dr. Seuss doing anti-Japanese propaganda work during World War II. It’s Roald Dahl, anti-semite. Can we love Kind of Blue and Sketches of Spain and also condemn Miles Davis for beating his wives? Is Ender’s Game less of a masterpiece for Orson Scott Card’s homophobia? Maybe. Looking hard at the flaws of the artist is an important way to engage with the art.
The scientific community has been contending with its own habitual harassers. (Amid the Weinstein scandal, the news section of the journal Science broke the story of field geologists in Antarctica alleging abuse by their boss. As the planetary scientist Carolyn Porco tweeted: Imagine the implications of an abuser and his target confined on a long-duration space mission.)
This isn’t like art. Science’s results and conclusions are nominally objective; failures in the humanity of the humans who found them aren’t supposed to have any bearing. Yet they do.
Nazi “research” turned out to be barely-disguised torture; it was easy to condemn the people who did it and consign to history the crappy outcomes they collected. The racist abuses of the Tuskegee experiments and consent problems with human radiation exposure experiments of the post-World War II era yielded data of questionable use, but led to reform, to rethinking the treatment of human scientific subjects.
But what about, for example, exoplanets? Geoff Marcy, a pre-eminent astronomer at UC Berkeley, pioneered techniques for finding planets outside Earth’s solar system. He also, it seems, sexually harassed students without repercussion for decades. Clearly, that kept good science from happening—it’s reasonable to conclude that Marcy’s alleged abuses prevented his targets from doing their best work, or forced them out of science altogether. He pushed all the science they might have done into some alternate timeline.
He also discovered or helped discover thousands of worlds.
Unlike art, science has little mechanism to engage with that. They’re, you know, planets.
Researchers might get banned from conferences or kicked out of professional societies. Marcy has left his job at UC Berkeley. But no one has suggested that his findings are compromised, and astronomy will continue to build on Marcy’s work—to reference his papers and build on his team’s findings. Citation networks will link to them. The way the system works, that accrues fame and influence back to Marcy, even if subsequent researchers might not want to.
Gliese 436b, 55 Cancri b, the worlds of Upsilon Andromedae, and the other planets Marcy’s teams found still orbit their suns no matter what Marcy did. But they are … problematic.
Some science has more obvious consequences here on Earth. Last spring a former student of the esteemed philosopher John Searle—also at UC Berkeley—filed a lawsuit alleging frequent sexual harassment and abuse. That lawsuit elicited a history of prior claims.
Searle is famous for a thought experiment called the Chinese Room. It’s a way to try to understand if a machine could have consciousness. In brief: A guy stands in a sealed room with a slot in the wall. Every so often a slip of paper comes through the slot with some Chinese characters on it. The guy looks up at a display in the room and sees another set of Chinese characters expressing the right response. He writes those on another piece of paper and pushes it back out the slot.
So: Does the guy in the room understand Chinese?
Searle pitched the idea in 1980, and over decades it became one of the most argued-over concepts in philosophy and the theory of mind. If your answer to the question is “no,” as was Searle’s, that suggests that you don’t believe in “strong AI,” the idea that a mechanistic system of circuits or some other, unimaginable technology could think or feel. It might pass a Turing Test, Alan Turing’s famous assessment that says any system that can trick a human into thinking it’s sentient might as well be. But it won’t really be a mind.
Don’t panic; I’m not going to walk through all the arguments and counter-arguments. Most students of computer science will tell you that even if Searle’s alleged misdeeds compromised his ideas (why is it a man in the room? Why is Chinese synonymous with incomprehensibility?), the philosophical problem of consciousness probably doesn’t have a grand impact on the unfolding, gnarly issues of bias in what we've all come to think of as artificial intelligence—machine learning.
Software has indeed managed to learn gender stereotypes and racism. Algorithms have sent African Americans to prison more often than white people.
But today’s computer science students were taught by people who learned about the Chinese Room problem (and not taught by people who got marginalized or pushed out of the field). Bias introduced way back up the line is all the more insidious. It kneecaps people’s ability to tell where they might be going wrong.
One way biases work their way into machine learning systems is through the database; it might be incomplete, or corrupt. But the other point of ingress is the human factor. Programmers choose when to tell the machine when it has gotten something right or wrong. It’s “through the ‘definition of success,’ which will be skewed to whatever the designer of the algorithm thinks matters. Also they define the penalty for failure, another way of embedding values,” says Cathy O’Neil, a mathematician and author of Weapons of Math Destruction.
Tech’s Harassment Crisis Now Has an Arsenal of Smoking Guns
The University of Rochester Sexual Harassment Case Is Complicated—And That's the Point
Month by Month, 2016 Cemented Science’s Sexual Harassment Problem
Maybe that matters less when the algorithm’s job is to figure out how to park a robot car or find the right widget in a warehouse. But what about when it’s trying to, for example, assess the actuarial fitness of health insurance applicants? “If you’re defaulting your model to think of a household that’s made up of a man, a woman, and kids, that’s a simplification,” says Osonde Osoba, an engineer at RAND and co-author of a study on bias in machine learning. “If you don’t interrogate that anchor, your model won’t be fully representative.”
If the lesson of #metoo is that monsters are everywhere, they're in Silicon Valley, too. The “white guy problem,” as the researcher Kate Crawford called it in the New York Times—goes beyond even the pernicious failures of Hollywood or astronomy.
Those people are writing the code that’ll train machine-learning systems embedded in every part of our world, from autonomous cars to to medical diagnosis to the internet of things. Like some dark version of Isaac Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics, no machine will be free of those biases, no matter how sophisticated. The prevalence of bias will be 100 percent, and the real fault won’t be in our robots. It’ll be in ourselves.
We asked a group of experts what Silicon Valley can do about online harassment.


Half-eaten doughnuts hit the bottom of waste bins around the world this week, as news feeds spread word of a new dietary danger. Yes, headlines declared, a new study shows that sugar is the favorite food of cancer. Cancer. “This link between sugar and cancer has sweeping consequences,” wrote Johan Thevelein, a Belgian biologist and co-author of the study published last Friday in the journal Nature Communications. Sweeping is right. Anti-carb crusaders swiftly took to Twitter to stoke anti-sugar outrage.
Here’s the thing though. The findings do not prove that eating (or not eating) sugar has any effect on the onset or development of cancer. The research, which was done in yeast, found that high levels of glucose could overstimulate the production of certain proteins often found in tumors. And those proteins could cause cancer cells to grow and multiply faster. In essence, high blood sugar could worsen existing tumors.
An interesting bit of science, to be sure, but nowhere near a medically relevant dietary recommendation. By Tuesday, Thevelein was backtracking in news outlets: “Some people are interpreting that we have found a mechanism for how sugar causes cancer, but that is certainly not the case.”
The temptation to draw facile connections from a fungi growing in a lab to human bodies is especially prevalent in the world of nutrition science. The appeal of diets is that they promise simple answers. You cut this fat or this carb, or fast these two days, or only eat foods a neanderthal would have eaten. In a chaotically careening world, they promise control.
But Thevelein isn’t a clinician, and his research partners weren’t intending to give diet advice. They’re molecular biologists, and their investigation was an attempt to understand the mechanisms behind something called the Warburg effect. Unlike healthy cells, cancer cells lack the internal feedback loops designed to conserve resources when food isn’t available. Kind of like Cookie Monster. If there’s blood glucose around, these ravenous cells will consume it all. And they do it using fermentation, as opposed to respiration, which most healthy cells use to break down glucose into smaller units. All that rapid energy gain drives the proliferation of even more cancer cells, and tumors get bigger, faster.
What has remained controversial is whether fermentation is a cause or a symptom of cancer. And that is what the Belgian scientists spent nine years trying to figure out by observing vats and vials of mutant Saccaromyches cerevisiae. What they discovered is that at certain concentrations, glucose can activate a gene called Ras, which is a major regulator of cell proliferation in both yeasts and mammalian cells. That sends the tumor cells into fermentation overdrive, gobbling up all the glucose around and growing like crazy. The findings suggest sugar—in a petri dish—can speed up cancer growth. But it doesn’t say anything about sugar giving people cancer.
These Mice Stopped Eating Carbs So You (Maybe) Don't Have To
Obesity Surgery May Work by Remaking Your Gut Microbiome
Why Are We So Fat? The Multimillion-Dollar Scientific Quest to Find Out
“You can’t take laboratory research of a metabolic pathway and translate it into a diet,” says Christine Zoumas, director of healthy eating programs at UC San Diego’s Moores Cancer Center. “We don’t have the science yet to understand where these pathways can be applicable in our food supply yet.”
Say you’re going to eliminate all the sugars from your body. So not just the occasional doughnut or ice cream cone, but every fruit, vegetable, and whole or refined grain out there. You’re basically left with meat and fat—a ketogenic diet. “That is not meant to be a long-term diet,” says Zoumas. And she says research has shown that while cancer cells prefer sugar as a fuel, they can just as easily survive on fat and protein alone. Plus, while you’re starving all those cancer cells, you’re also depriving your body’s healthy cells too. Which is pretty much the last thing you want to do if you’re sick and on chemo and battling for your life. “You need to be getting calories any way you can,” says Zoumas.
She advises cancer patients on what they should be eating, as well as at-risk populations—people constantly fretting over what they put in their mouth and whether it might feed the disease. Sugar comes up all the time. Zoumas has different advice for everyone, but in general she relies upon a body of scientific evidence that suggests maintaining a healthy weight with a diet based mostly on plants, lean proteins, and (yes) carbs is the best way to reduce your risk of cancer. Even with the occasional doughnut.
Artificial intelligence is now detecting cancer and robots are doing nursing tasks. But are there risks to handing over elements of our health to machines, no matter how sophisticated?


Maybe you've heard that Tiangong-1, China's 19,000-pound prototype space station, is scheduled to rain down on Earth ... eventually. As in, some time between now and next April. Most of the spacecraft will burn up in orbit—but sizable chunks (up to 220 pounds, by one estimate) could end up making landfall.
Thing is, nobody's sure where those chunks will land. Experts aren't exactly perturbed by this: The odds are slim (like, one-in-a-trillion slim) that some part of Tiangong-1 will come crashing down and do you bodily harm.
What you probably haven't heard is how experts go about determining those odds in the first place. In which case, please allow me to introduce you to the supremely fascinating world of object reentry risk analysis—the science of predicting which of the tens of thousands of derelict spacecraft, spent launch vehicles, and various other hunks of technology orbiting our planet will survive their inevitable plunge through the atmosphere and pose a threat to people here on Earth.
The first thing you need to understand is this: When a spacecraft plummets to Earth, it rarely makes the trip intact. The extreme heat and violent forces of atmospheric reentry obliterate most small objects (the industry term for this is, awesomely, "aero-thermal demise"). But the components of larger spacecraft can and do survive, depending on their thermal properties, how aerodynamic they are, and where they live inside the spacecraft.
"Think of the spacecraft itself as the master container," says aerospace engineer Michael Weaver, who oversees reentry risk assessment at the Aerospace Corporation. "The hull of that container has to fail before the parts inside get exposed to heating, and there can be parts inside of parts inside of parts."
This Russian-doll effect can dramatically impact whether components live or die. With detailed enough blueprints, researchers can use software to model atmospheric disintegration. NASA uses a program called the Object Reentry Survival Analysis Tool; the Aerospace Corporation uses AHAB, short for Atmospheric Heating and Breakup.
Components with high melting points tend to endure: titanium alloys, optical elements like glass, and storage containers like fuel, oxygen, and water tanks, which are often wrapped in heat-resistant materials. The latter can be pretty big (the photo above shows a propellant tank from a Boeing Delta rocket that landed in Georgetown, Texas), but not everything that survives reentry poses a threat. "If it's a thermal insulating blanket, it might make it back to Earth, but it's not going to damage you," says Marlon Sorge, a senior project engineer at Aerospace Corporation and an expert in fragmentation modeling.
To qualify as dangerous, debris needs to be massive enough, and be moving fast enough, to deliver at least 15 joules of energy to whatever it hits. "That's about the same as dropping a bowling ball from a height of one foot," Sorge says.
Any debris big enough to do you harm gets factored into what's known as a reentry footprint—the size of the geographic area inside of which debris is liable to land. For controlled reentries, during which people here on Earth guide the spacecraft's descent, that footprint is typically small and located far, far away from humans. Among the most popular crash sites is the unimprovably named Oceanic Pole of Inaccessibility—a point in the South Pacific that resides farther from land than any place else on Earth.
But Tiangong-1's reentry will be uncontrolled, which is why no one knows where it will land. Even if somebody were to calculate the size of its reentry footprint, knowing the size of a foot is very different from knowing where that foot will fall.
That said, here's what risk analysts do know: China's spacecraft is currently circling the planet at an orbital inclination of 42.8 degrees. "That means it could land anywhere on Earth within 42.8 degrees north latitude and 42.8 degrees south," Weaver says, and at any longitude. As you read this, that entire swath of Earth is being passed over by Tiangong-1, "so any population within that range is the population that's at risk."
This is actually less scary than it sounds. Think back to grade school: Water covers roughly three quarters of the planet. That means there's about a 75 percent chance of incoming debris landing in the ocean, where, tech-island utopias notwithstanding, its odds of hurting or killing somebody are basically zilch.
As for the remaining quarter of Earth's surface: Humans populate that land sparsely and unevenly. To calculate the risk they face, researchers use datasets like those in Columbia University's Gridded Population of the World series, which estimate the human population count and density for cells distributed across the globe in a handy, latitude/longitude grid.
These grids let researchers estimate the likelihood that reentering objects will land at a particular latitude/longitude, and, by extension, the number of people at risk of being struck. They're how researchers at NASA's Orbital Debris Program Office came up with the graph pictured above, which shows the average population density beneath a range of orbital inclinations. (We've added a red line to denote Tiangong-1's inclination of 42.8°). The chart uses data from two Gridded Population datasets: One from 2000 and a predictive population model for the year 2050. Based on this graph, the average population density beneath Tiangong-1's orbit is less than 25 people per square kilometer (or 66 people per square mile).
The Space Junk Problem Is About to Get a Whole Lot Gnarlier
Gecko-Inspired Gripper May Soon Snag Space Junk
The 12 Greatest Challenges for Space Exploration
The Mad Plan to Clean Up Space Junk With a Laser Cannon
That's … not a lot of people. What's more, all these calculations make some pretty conservative assumptions. Remember the 15-joule threshold for incoming objects? That much energy could do serious damage if it hit you square in the head, but anywhere else on your body? You'd probably be fine. And charts like the NASA one above ignore the possibility that humans might be protected by buildings or cars when spaceparts start raining from on high. "It's the mathematical equivalent of having everybody in these regions stand outside in an evenly distributed grid and look up," says Ted Muelhaupt, who manages the Aerospace Corporation's Center for Orbital and Reentry Debris Studies.
All of which explains why no expert is all that worried about Tiangong-1 falling from the sky, whenever and wherever that may be. China's spacecraft might be big, but Earth, and its swaths of unpopulated land and sea, are much, much bigger.
Growing food in space is hard. Keeping a limited supply of water clean and drinkable is no easy task either. Here's how NASA is going to science meals for interplanetary travel.


When a raindrop falls in San Francisco, it has two choices: flow east into the San Francisco Bay, or west into the Pacific Ocean. A ridgeline divides the city into two, slicing through the Presidio, hugging the eastern edge of Golden Gate Park, and skirting Twin Peaks. As the land drops off in either direction, the elevation difference doesn’t just drive raindrops downhill—it also moves human waste. San Francisco, unlike any other coastal city in California, has just one set of pipes for its storm runoff and sewage. First engineered more than a hundred years ago, the system still functions on the same basic principle as it did in 1890: Let gravity do the work.
But the city’s early engineers didn’t account for the eight inches of sea level rise the bay has seen over the last century. And they certainly didn’t foresee the additional five feet expected by the end of the next hundred years, which promise to cause major flooding—not to mention a serious poop problem. Engineering a solution to the rising tides will be enormously expensive. Which is why the city thinks someone else should pay for it. Like, say, Big Petroleum.
Last month San Francisco announced it was suing the five largest publicly-held producers of fossil fuels in the world. The lawsuit aims to make these companies pay for the miles of seawall construction and sewer system redesigns required to protect the city from climate change. Climate change caused in part by all the fossil fuels they sucked, mined, and fracked out of the Earth. It may sound like a long shot, but the case rests on one of the oldest and best-tested environmental laws on the books, the same one that brought down Big Tobacco in the ‘90s and Big Lead Paint in the aughts. Whether or not the same rules apply to the threat of climate change is a question with implications far beyond the sewers of San Francisco.
But for now, let’s start there. When Carl Edward Grunsky, a German-born geologist and civil engineer arrived in San Francisco in the 1890s, his sense of order was offended nearly as much as his nose. For nearly 40 years people had been laying brick sewers willy nilly. The result was a city that “smells to Heaven with a loudness and persistence that the strongest nostrils may not withstand and the disinfectants of a metropolis could not remove,” as one health official at the time declared. Grunsky developed plans for an innovative gravity-based sewer system that would drain rainwater-diluted waste all the way from Daly City to North Point, where the rapid current would sweep it out to the Golden Gate.
At the time, it was a great leap forward in sanitation, even though it overflowed during rainstorms and dumped raw sewage into the bay. By the 1970s, with the passing of the Clean Water Act, that was a no-no. So the city built a ring of giant underground chambers around the peninsula—some as big as 25 feet wide by 45 feet tall. During dry weather, sewage collects at one of two treatment plants. But when it rains, storm runoff and sewage run downhill through a single set of pipes and drain into the big chambers. They function like waiting rooms, detaining stormwater until the treatment plants can process it all.
Today, overflow only happens during big storms, when the chambers and treatment stations fill to capacity. Then, sewage and stormwater have nowhere to go but out of 36 discharge outfalls located around the city, several feet below street elevation. But if especially wet weather happens to coincide with peak high tides, those outfalls become submerged, flooding any areas of the city at or below bay level with a mix of sewage and stormwater. This has been happening more frequently lately, as climate change has already raised sea levels around San Francisco by a few inches. And it’s expected to happen a lot more in the coming decades, with levels estimated to increase by up to 24 inches by 2050—enough to put most outfalls underwater daily.
Rising seas aren’t just a problem during the rainy season. In dry weather, big tides can breach the outfalls, flow into the collection containers, and wind up in the treatment plants. Corrosive saltwater wreaks havoc on the pumps, filters, and other equipment keeping San Franciscans from living in a cesspool. Today, that happens fairly infrequently. But more ocean means more ocean water entering and damaging the system.
A backseat engineer might ask at this point, “Why not just raise the outfalls a few feet?”
Oh, were it only so simple. But because the sewers are built on the city’s existing gravity-driven hydraulic gradient, you can’t go tweaking one part without feeling the effects system-wide. Higher outfalls won’t get submerged as often, but during storm events there will be less room for all that water to go. Which would mean even more flooding during the rainy season, even with the outfalls clear of the tides. And, don’t forget, those outfalls lead to containers and treatment plants that are mostly all underground, directly in the path of shoreline erosion caused by rising sea levels.
Without upgrades, here’s what will be inundated by the end of the century: SFO International Airport, the Giants Stadium, the site of the new Warriors Stadium. And, oh yeah, headquarters for companies like Facebook, Google, Airbnb, and the brand-spanking new Salesforce building, now the skyline’s tallest spire. Models project 6 percent of San Francisco will be inundated by normal, daily tides by 2100.
Last year San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee committed an initial $8 million to begin fortifying the city’s seawall. But shoring it up in the short-term will cost about $500 million—long-term, $5 billion. Add to that another $350 million to protect all the wastewater infrastructure and limit how much seawater makes it inside, and the climate change costs quickly add up. Costs, the city now says, should be shouldered by the corporations that still produce vast quantities of fossil fuels, despite having known for decades their role in driving climate change and accelerated sea level rise.
This Week's King Tides Give a Glimpse of Sea Level Rise
Four Radical Plans to Save Civilization From Climate Change
With Harvey, Imperfect Engineering Meets a Perfect Storm
“These fossil fuel companies profited handsomely for decades while knowing they were putting the fate of our cities at risk,” San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera said at a press conference announcing the lawsuit in September, which named BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil, and Royal Dutch Shell as defendants. “Now, the bill has come due.”
Oakland filed a similar lawsuit on the same day, with both cities charging the companies with liability for public nuisance. They’re seeking only the funds needed to adapt infrastructure against encroaching seas. The cases represent the first real legal test of whether or not climate change blame is not only assignable, but quantifiable.
If they can get in front of a judge. To date, every attempt to bring a case based on a climate change-related injury has either been dismissed for lack of standing, lack of jurisdiction, or both. That’s because, while the courts were willing to entertain the complex causal chains linking secondhand cigarette smoke to cancer and lead house paint to behavioral and developmental issues in children, they so far have viewed climate change as so enormously complicated as to be outside the scope of adjudication. “I told you before I’m not a scientist,” former Justice Antonin Scalia told the Supreme Court in 2006. “That’s why I don’t want to have to deal with global warming, to tell you the truth.”
But many legal experts say pressure (and scientific evidence) is mounting to let climate change have its day in court. “There’s certainly a sense that climate change is broader in scope than what nuisance law has ever addressed before,” says Sean Hecht, co-executive director of the UCLA law school’s Emmett Institute on Climate Change and the Environment. “But it couldn’t be that if the nuisance gets bigger and bigger that courts are less and less likely to impose a remedy. That flies in the face of reason.”
While it’s too early to say whether the court will be willing to look at San Francisco’s case, Hecht says it’s a strong one. The injury to the city is discrete, with sea level rise being the most well-established downstream effect of climate change. California, more so than any other state, has devoted serious resources to gathering data, modeling, and understanding the impacts of sea level rise on its shores. And the fossil fuel industry’s knowledge of the problem even as they sowed a public misinformation campaign has become increasingly well-documented. Any sort of victory, no matter how small, could embolden other local governments to sue oil and gas companies for host of other climate change-related expenses—like, say, super-soaking hurricanes or drought-fueled megawildfires.
Which is why San Francisco’s case is about more than just sewers and seawalls. It’s about who pays for climate change: the people hit hardest by it, or the corporations who profit from it? Like a raindrop falling on the city, there are only two ways forward. And every year the path to the ocean gets a little shorter.
Seawall-topping king tides occur when extra-high tides line up with other meteorological anomalies. In the past they were a novelty or a nuisance. Now they hint at the new normal, when sea level rise will render current coastlines obsolete.


Zipping around like a bumblebee, the little black-and-yellow tractor claws its bucket into one of San Francisco’s few vacant lots, kicking up a puff of dust. Payload secured, it backs up—beep, beep, beep—whips around, and speeds to its dirt pile, stopping so quickly that it tips forward on two wheels. It drops its quarry and backs up—beep, beep, beep—then speeds back to its excavation for another bucketful.
Atop the tractor is, of all things, a cargo carrier, like one you’d put on your car. But instead of carrying camping gear, it’s packed with electronics. Because no one is sitting in this Bobcat tractor—it’s operating itself, autonomously zipping around a lot lined with 4,500-pound concrete blocks. You know, for the safety of the community.
In this dusty arena, a startup called Built Robotics is testing what it thinks is the future of construction: the autonomous track loader. Give it coordinates, tell it what size the hole should be, hit enter, and it tears off and digs the thing with impressive accuracy.
Really, this tractor is not unlike a self-driving car. It uses lidar—that is, it spews lasers—to see the world directly in front of it. The difference being, this lidar is specially designed to work in the high-vibration, high-impact world of construction excavation. The lasers also allow the robot to measure the amount of material it’s scooped up.
But the ATL has one big advantage over self-driving cars: It’s scooting around a relatively static, structured environment. Roads, they’re chaos. A job site isn’t exactly peaceful, but at least the robot is working in a confined space. So to position the robot, Built Robotics uses what’s known as augmented GPS, which combines an on-site base station and satellites to produce location data down to the centimeter.
Still, the construction robots have actual work to do. “The thing that we're doing which is different and that’s a little bit harder than self-driving cars is we're actually manipulating our environment,” says Noah Ready-Campbell, founder and CEO of Built Robotics. “If a car is changing the environment around it, then something's gone really wrong.”
What Is a Robot?
Meet Salto, the One-Legged Robot With an Incredible Leap
Meet the Cute, Wobbly Robot That Started the AI Revolution
Specifically, the robot excavates holes for the foundations of buildings. Say you want a 30-foot-by-40-foot excavation at a depth of two or three feet. Depending on the equipment and conditions, that’d take a crew of humans one to three days to complete. Built Robotics claims its machine can hit about the same pace—plus the robot never gets hurt or tired and can potentially run 24 hours a day. (A robot can, of course, hurt people, though the robot has a collision avoidance system in place. And for the time being a supervisor stands there with a big red and orange kill switch in hand.)
Built Robotics is still honing the tech, but says it has already done small pilot jobs in the Bay Area. “I actually think we can see this technology deployed a lot more quickly and I think you're probably going start to see autonomy make an impact in construction even before you're doing transportation,” says Ready-Campbell.
Which would not be unwelcome. The construction industry has a labor shortage; a survey this year from the US Chamber of Commerce found that 60 percent of contractors report trouble finding skilled labor. Roboticizing the industry wherever possible—repetitive tasks like digging and painting—could ease this strain. Agriculture has the same labor problem right now, and is increasingly turning to robots to fill the gaps.
Will that kill certain jobs? Yes. But like pretty much any robotics company whose tech is designed to replace humans, Built Robotics says that the resulting increase in productivity will grow the industry and shift laborers into new jobs.
The roboticization of the construction industry is also good news for America’s horrifically bad infrastructure. That increased productivity could make repairs easier and cheaper. Take, for instance, robots that inspect and automatically repair pipes without humans having to rip the pipes out of the ground.
In the end, the job of a robot is to make life for humans easier, safer, and more productive. And so one busy little robot digs its way toward an automated future, one scoop at a time.
Introducing HardWIRED, a new video series about the robots that are poised to take over the world. In the first episode WIRED explores what qualifies as a robot in the first place.


At the SynDaver factory in Tampa, Florida, mad scientists are bringing bodies to life. Not Frankensteining the dead, but using a library of polymers to craft synthetic cadavers that twitch and bleed like real suffering humans.
Hospitals and med schools use the fakes to teach anatomy and train surgeons, and the most lifelike model is the $95,000 SynDaver Patient. This exquisite corpse can be controlled wirelessly so practitioners can rehearse elaborate medical scenarios in which the patient goes into shock and even “dies.”
It’s less messy, and a good deal longer-lasting, than real flesh and blood: As long as you keep buying replacement viscera, these bodies won’t ever decay. But because they’re 85 percent water, they must be submerged in a watery grave between uses to keep from drying out.
EyesThe fake corpse’s eyes have tiny screens, so the pupils can dilate in response to light or trauma.
LungsA compressor under the table draws air in and out. Doctors can practice tracheotomies and intubations.
HeartAn electric pump provides a realistic pulse, while a heater warms up the fluids to body temperature.
Add-OnsDiseases on demand! SynDaver can afflict the body with specific pathologies—a pancreatic tumor, say.
LimbsTo simulate a seizure, pneumatic actuators in the legs and arms create jerking motions.
JointsMore than 600 muscles are sutured to the cadaver’s 206 bones, and every  joint is movable.
MaterialsSynDaver’s polymers range in texture from rigidly skeletal to slimily liverlike.
CirculationEach body contains 50 feet of veins and arteries; valves restrict the flow of (fake) blood during shock.
This article appears in the October issue. Subscribe now.
Wired spends some time on the job with bioremediation and hoarding experts, Steri-Clean, Inc.  This video may disturb some viewers.


It was a lovely September day in Yellowstone’s Boiling River, which was not, in fact, boiling. Tourists trundled through the shallow water and dipped in where it was deeper. A herd of elk even waded through unconcerned. And among it all, a team of researchers in waders sampled the water for a brain-eating amoeba that kills 97 percent of the people it infects.
Not that anyone here has ever fallen victim to the amoeba, Naegleria fowleri. Scientists just know that the Boiling River, which gets its warmth from geothermal energy upstream, can harbor the little nasty. Accordingly, signs posted onshore warn swimmers: This thing can ruin your day, and most likely your life.
Wading in that river was an odd mix of scientists from the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute—650 miles from the nearest ocean—and the United States Geological Survey, which, as it turns out, is interested in far more than just rocks. They were collecting water samples to ship off to a rather more obvious participant: the Centers for Disease Control. There, scientists would analyze the water to help unravel the mysteries of the brain-eating amoeba—and hopefully, protect America’s waterways from nasties of all types.
Perhaps the most frustrating thing about Naegleria fowleri is that it has no business eating human brains. The amoeba prefers smaller game, scooting around freshwater ecosystems gobbling up bacteria. But if you happen to be swimming in one of those ecosystems and get a snout full of water, the amoeba can make its way into your brain and start eating tissue, leading to something called primary amebic meningoencephalitis. With the brain swelling come the fever and vomiting, then the seizures and hallucinations. It kills in an average of five days, and claims 97 percent of its hosts.
Naegleria fowleri loves warm waters, hence its presence in the not-quite-boiling Boiling River. But it can survive when things cool down as well. “When in cooler temperatures, it goes into a cyst state, which is kind of an egg-like state that's very hardy,” says Mia Mattioli, an environmental engineer in CDC's Environmental Microbiology Laboratory. “But it's not viable, it's not moving, it's just persisting. When it becomes more favorable and warm it goes into the infectious state.”
Naegleria fowleri's sensitivity to temperature makes it maddeningly difficult to track down, since lower temperatures lower its concentration. Scoop up other kinds of freshwater lifeforms and you might get 100 organisms in a liter of water. With Naegleria, you might be looking at 100 organisms in 100 liters of water. (This rarity, plus the fact you have to somehow get the microbe up your nose, is part of the reason why only 40 people picked up the amoeba in the US between 2007 and 2016.)
So the USGS and MBARI want to get better at detecting the menace. They descended on the Boiling River with two complementary missions. One was to hike out of there with water samples, which they took back to Montana State University and shipped off the CDC for analysis. The second was to test MBARI’s Environmental Sample Processor (known as ESP, of course), which the group hopes could one day have the power to detect the amoeba in real time.
MBARI having oceanic proclivities, this device is a drum full of electronics that you dunk in the ocean. “You can think of it as a molecular biology laboratory in a can,” says research specialist Kevan Yamahara. The ESP collects water samples, analyzing genetics to determine what kinds of organisms are present.
What MBARI took to Yellowstone, though, was a sleeker mobile version, which fits in a tackle box. It pulled water from the Boiling River and pushed it through a filter, which trapped particulates like brain-eating amoebas—at least hopefully. MBARI then shipped these filters, along with water samples, to the CDC. While MBARI is still testing this mobile version of ESP, and it can’t yet do on-board genetic testing, it’s designed to be more modular, so researchers can swap in the latest analytical instruments for real-time genetic analysis.
The idea here is to figure out if the ESP might be capable of detecting Naegleria fowleri in real time. First the CDC will try to detect the amoeba with their lab methods. This includes using both molecular techniques to hunt for microbe DNA in the sample and culturing the parasite in a dish. So let's say that's successful. Then if the ESP ended up trapping amoebas in its filters, that’s a good indication that the machine will be capable of doing genetic testing in the field to identify the parasites. The results from the CDC and the ESP match.
Of Course Australia Has Drop-Off Centers for Deadly Spiders
A Once Powerful Antibiotic Goes the Way of All Flesh
Urban Heat Islands Can Be Deadly, and They're Only Getting Hotter
Conveniently enough, the USGS already has thousands of river gauges around America collecting data like temperature and flow rate. So the work here might help give those sensors the ability to alert authorities to amoeba outbreaks. And that could be critical for unraveling the peculiarities of the Naegleria fowleri life cycle.
“We don't really know that much about, for instance, how it cycles during the day or during the month or during the year through an environment,” says microbiologist Elliott Barnhart of the USGS. “So one thing this ESP could do would be to sample every hour or every day or different seasons to figure out when might this amoeba be most prevalent.”
The worrying bit is that one of the few things scientists know for sure about Naegleria fowleri is that it loves warm water. And an increasingly warm planet will give rise to increasingly warm rivers. While the amoeba is most prevalent in the relative warmth of the southern US, it may well grow more ubiquitous farther north. “We're seeing cases more and more with rises in water temperatures,” says Mattioli of the CDC. Advances like ESP could help officials better monitor all kinds of nasties in American rivers, not just Naegleria fowleri. In the meantime, it never hurts to bring a nose plug.
In South America, the peanut bug ambles around with a goofy-ass head. And that’s not its only clever defense against the bullies of the rainforest.




