
Bitcoin’s price has risen stratospherically, a fact that leaves many minor players in the market with massive gains and many bigger players millionaires. But is this a bubble? Are the gains real? And are the bitcoin whales in for a sad Christmas?
First we must understand what drives bitcoin price and, in particular, this boom. The common understanding for current growth leads us back to institutional investors preparing for the forthcoming BTC futures exchanges.
The primary theory about the astonishing rally being put forward by investors on social media is that bitcoin will soon benefit from big institutional money injections via the introduction of the first BTC futures products. CBOE Global Markets and CME Group are launching new futures contracts on December 10 and December 17, allowing investors to go long or short on bitcoin. This ability makes bitcoin far more palatable to big investors who are currently flooding the market to make profits if and when the bitcoin price falls.
This move also legitimizes bitcoin in Wall Street’s eyes, an important point considering  cryptocurrencies are still suspect.
Further growth comes from the the “bitcoin as a store of value” crowd. This group of enthusiast bought and held bitcoin and will not sell it at any current price. More and more bitcoin fans are entering into this group and they are driving up demand increases. In a world where people expect bitcoin to be worth $1 million soon this sort of activity – whether rational or irrational – is quite popular.
We see a common thread between these points: hype and news. All cryptocurrency movements are based on domain specific media and conversations between traders. Bitcoin traders, it can be said, are now akin to the jolly colonists selling stocks under buttonwood tree. This small but influential market is prone to panics based on a single Tweet and users work together to a least bolster themselves with cries of “HODL!” The market is so nascent that there are no dark pools, no popular algorithmic trading systems, and no real way to automate your buying and selling activities (although, without futures, there was never a need to). That is all coming and at that point the market will harden itself against panics and booms. Until then we enjoy rises and dips and volatility that puts most bitcoin dilettantes off their lunch.
Ultimately new and old users are testing the limits of a system that, for a decade, has been untested. The futures market will be a big driver in growth and bust over the next few months as institutional investors begin using the currency. CoinDesk writer Omkar Godbole notes that the price should remain stable but a “a pullback to $11,000 cannot be ruled out, but dips below the upward sloping 10-day MA of $11,500 are likely to be short-lived.”
“As of now, a significant correction is unlikely and could be seen only on confirmation of a bearish price-RSI divergence and/or if RSI and stochastic move lower from the overbought territory,” he wrote.


Is this dangerous? Yes, to those who are betting big on BTC. Again, I cannot tell you whether to buy or sell but the common expectation is that bitcoin raises to a set point and then fluctuates between a high and a low until the next run up. Many expect foul play.
“The current price isn’t truly driven by demand. When CME Group went live with Bitcoin futures we saw a sharp increase in demand and an increased number of users in the network,” said Matthew Unger, CEO and Founder of iComplyICO. “Now, some institutional major players are flooding the network with new cash and creating what appears to be market manipulation. Now that Bitcoin futures are available it is easy to buy into futures market first and then create a massive number of buys or sells of Bitcoin to ensure the price swings in favour of your futures contract.”
“In many jurisdictions, Bitcoin has yet to become subject to regulations, leaving an investor with no recourse or protection from fraud or market manipulation,” said Unger.
Is this a bubble? Many are disappointed in the moves, believing the rise is happening because of market manipulation. But we must remember that the real value of a cryptocurrency is not driven by price but instead is driven by utility. While bitcoin may always be the proverbial hidden pot of gold for early buyers the future of all cryptocurrencies is still being written. Just as, in 1994, no one could have predicted the prevalence and value of open source projects like Linux and Apache, no one can currently predict what bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies will do for us in the future. Until we know, it’s best to buckle up and and enjoy the ride.


The Game Awards, an event that’s exactly what it sounds like, took place shortly ago and, like any gaming event, it was shot through with trailers and announcements. What’s the biggest announcement, you ask? It’s probably a tie between the sudden release of a new expansion for Zelda: Breath of the Wild and a teaser for the next project from From Software, the creators of Dark Souls and Bloodborne.
Well, let’s be honest – a new Zelda expansion, available now, is pretty much the only thing that matters in the world. Everything else can wait.

The Champions’ Ballad appears to be a follow-up to the original story, with the four champions working to defeat “the beast” once and for all. More importantly, there’s new horse armor that lets you teleport your mount to your location instantly. New weapons and armor await, and it also looks like there are a number of new shrines and larger dungeons. Oh, and you get an “ancient” motorcycle. I’d be playing it now if I hadn’t left my Zelda cartridge in the U.S. when I crossed the pond for Disrupt Berlin. What was I thinking?!
Less immediate but perhaps ultimately more intriguing is From Software’s minimal trailer for its new game, which has no name but does have a tagline: “Shadows Die Twice.” Some speculate this is a reboot of Shadow Tower, one of From’s earliest games, but others point out that not only is this a line from venerated ninja series Tenchu, but the music and writing suggest a Japanese theme. No one is quite sure what the gruesome hardware on display is, though my guess is it’s a grapple made from a bone.
Next on the hype train is Death Stranding, the next project from Hideo Kojima, of Metal Gear fame. In the longest and most substantive look at the game so far, which really isn’t saying much, we see a space-suited-up Norman Reedus attempting in vain to hide from invisible and enigmatic pursuers that seem to be attracted to… suffering? Life? Anything but the baby in bottle that later turns up inside Reedus.

We’re really no wiser than we were before, but Kojima’s eye for the uncanny and dramatic is clear. He may be rather off the rails, but often our most interesting artists are.
Some other trailers of note: The developers of The Vanishing of Ethan Carter, a creepy mystery, show off their latest project, Witchfire.

But if you were expecting another somber, slow-moving affair, the developers would like to remind you that they were also behind the excellent Painkiller and underrated Bulletstorm. It looks like a high-energy shoot-em-up in a strange, arcane world.
I’m particularly interested in Campo Santo’s In the Valley of the Gods, in which it appears you and a partner (likely computer controlled) infiltrate a tomb not to raid it, but to document it with an old-timey movie camera.

Perhaps you’re not as much of an antiquarian as I am, but this looks like it should be a very interesting little adventure.
Some other things worth noting: Bayonetta 3 was teased as a Switch exclusive, along with remasters of 1 and 2. This should please hardcore action fans who might not be satisfied with the console’s otherwise great selection of games.
And the soul still burns: Soul Calibur 6 was announced, though honestly I’m still happy to play the original on Dreamcast.


Nvidia cards are the de facto standard for running machine learning workloads and today, the company added yet another high-end compute-centric card to its line-up: the Titan V. This card, which is based on Nvidia’s Volta architecture, features 21.1 billion transistors on a 815 mm2 chip that can produce a full 110 teraflops of compute power.
All of that power comes at a price, though. The card, which features 12GB of HBM2 memory, will retail for $2,999. For that, though, users will see a 9x increase in raw power compared to the Titan Xp, the card’s predecessor, which retailed for “only” $1,299.
It’s worth noting that this isn’t really Nvidia’s most powerful card yet — that honor still belongs to the 112 teraflop Tesla V100, which tends to retail for around $10,000. It is Nvidia’s most powerful GPU for PCs, though. Both the Titan V and V100 cards seem to have quite a bit in common, including the V100 GPU at their core, though the Titan V features both less memory and a reduced memory bus width.

The launch of the Titan V came as a bit of a surprise. Nvidia CEO Jen-Hsun Huang wasn’t exactly expected to announce new hardware during his keynote at the NIPS conference.
“Our vision for Volta was to push the outer limits of high performance computing and AI. We broke new ground with its new processor architecture, instructions, numerical formats, memory architecture and processor links,” said Huang. “With TITAN V, we are putting Volta into the hands of researchers and scientists all over the world. I can’t wait to see their breakthrough discoveries.”
While you could happy play PUBG with this card (it’s very much a standard PCI-E video card, after all), it’s very much geared toward researchers who need this kind of parallel processing power for running their scientific simulations or who want to build machine learning models (or you could just use it to mine cryptocurrencies, of course). The Titan V features 5120 Cuda cores and additional 640 tensor cores that have been optimized to speed up machine learning workloads.


Uber has struck a major deal in Southeast Asia after ComfortDelGro, Singapore’s largest taxi operator, announced [PDF] it has agreed to buy a majority share of the ride-hailing giant’s Singapore-based car rental business.
The deal will see a joint venture valued at SG$642 million (US$474 million) established to run Uber’s Lion City Rentals subsidiary in Singapore. Comfort will spend SG$295 million to buy 51 percent in what is the largest investment outlay in its forty-plus-year history.
The deal is subject to regulatory approval, but if and when completed it will give Uber exclusive access to Comfort’s fleet of more than 15,000 vehicles in Singapore. That would more than double Uber’s driver numbers in Singapore. While its fleet has decreased over the past year, Comfort — which also operates the CityCab brand — has a dominant share of Singapore’s total of 25,325 taxis.
“ComfortDelGro has been in the taxi business for close to five decades and we have seen the industry evolve significantly. Despite the many changes that have taken place, taxis have remained a relevant option for people get around the city. The question many have been asking is: For how long?” ComfortDelGro Chairman Lim Jit Poh said in a statement.
“We are confident that taxis will be around for a long time to come. But we are also aware
that the personalised mobility business is a very different one now. By working
together, we feel that we will be able to unleash a lot of synergy which will benefit
consumers and drivers alike,” he added.
Uber and Grab compete across seven markets in Southeast Asia, while in Indonesia — Southeast Asia’s largest economy — both are widely-thought to be trailing local player Go-Jek, which has grown to command a $1.2 billion valuation from investors like Tencent.
Overall, Grab claims two million drivers and more than 70 million app downloads. Uber doesn’t disclose figures for Southeast Asia, but it previously said that Asia Pacific as a whole represents over 20 percent of its global trip volume. The region, it added, has nearly 629,000 active drivers, which it said is over 25 percent of its global driver network. Uber crossed five billion rides worldwide at the end of June 2017, while Grab reached one billion last month.
With a population of around five million, Singapore represents a small fraction of Southeast Asia’s 600-million-plus consumers but it is an important and symbolic hub for the region.
Comfort, which is listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange, announced it was in talks with Uber over a “potential strategic alliance” in August so the tie-in doesn’t come out of the blue. Following that disclosure, however, Uber’s fierce rival Grab began aggressively approaching Comfort drivers with the aim of converting them to its platform. Singapore-based Today suggested that as many as 2,000 drivers were considering jumping ship, but Grab’s efforts haven’t scuppered the deal itself.
“As has been reported by the media, both companies are downsizing their fleets and are playing catch up. Grab and our taxi partners have out-innovated them and are in a strong position to grow our fleets, while keeping vehicle rental costs low for driver-partners,” Grab said in a statement to TechCrunch.
The deal Comfort is part of a new focus on business development from Uber’s recently appointed Asia Pacific chief Brooks Entwistle. A former Chairman of Goldman Sachs Southeast Asia, Entwistle told TechCrunch in a recent interview that he is focused on doing deals with governments, taxi firms and other entities that would traditionally be more akin to foes than friends of Uber.
To that end, Uber has struck deals with taxi firms in Taiwan, it inked its first mobile wallet deal in Southeast Asia with Vietnam’s Momo, and it is looking into the potential to enter the bike sharing space, Entwistle said.
The Comfort deal is a major blow to Grab, which is estimated to have built a fleet of around 10,000 licensed drivers in Singapore thanks to partnerships with Singapore’s five other taxi operators and some Comfort drivers who joined independently. (Grab claims over 150,000 drivers across all ride categories in Singapore.)
Grab was originally founded in Malaysia but it now counts Singapore as its HQ. It raised $2 billion from SoftBank and China’s Didi Chuxing in July and, while reliable market data is hard to find, most observers believe the firm has edged ahead of Uber in overall marketshare across Southeast Asia.
If Uber can hunt down influential alliances like this deal with Comfort in the other six markets where it rivals Grab in Southeast Asia then the battle is likely to be even more competitive in the future. That’s important given that the region’s ride-sharing economy is tipped to grow five-fold to reach $13.1 billion in annual revenue and 29 million customers over the next decade.
Note: The original version of this article has been updated to include more information

Featured Image: ANTHONY WALLACE/Getty Images


MishiPay, a London startup that has built mobile self-checkout technology that promises to put an end to queuing to pay, has raised £1.65 million in seed funding. The round is led by European VC Nauta Capital and will be used to further grow the burgeoning company as it persuades high street retailers to adopts its wares.
Apparently inspired by co-founder Mustafa Khanwala’s own shopping experience — when in 2015 he had to queue for 20 minutes just to buy a soda — MishiPay’s ‘patent pending’ self-checkout tech lets you simply scan the barcode of an item on your phone, pay on the phone and leave the store with your items. In other words, without ever having to lineup at a checkout.
Furthermore, the startup says its technology enables this ‘scan, pay, leave’ experience while preventing theft via RFID and other means. If you try to leave without paying, sensors will sound an alarm. But once you’ve paid, the security is disabled and you are free to walk out of the door with your purchased items.
“The problem I had set out to solve initially was queuing but right now we realize it is just the tip of the iceberg,” Khanwala tells me. “We are solving the problem of the divide between the in-store and e-commerce experience and aiming to bridge that and bring the best of both worlds together for shoppers and stores. I understand though that this is a humongous task of tackling a $25 Trillion industry and so the aim is to start by first solving one of the biggest problems that have plagued the in-store checkout experience for decades, queuing!”
Of course, self-checkout systems is nothing new, but the innovation here is doing away with a discrete in-store checkout altogether. Instead, the payment process means your mobile, combined with the rest of MishiPay’s tech stack, is the checkout and barcode scanner.
“There are no checkout counters, no security tills and definitely no queuing. It is just: scan, pay and leave. What’s special is that we integrate security against theft that disables automatically and that we integrate into the existing systems of the retailer. This is key,” says the co-founder MishiPay.
The tech itself has been two years in the making and has been successfully trialled in four countries, and Khanwala says the startup is ready to work with major retailers “to prove the clear value in rolling out our technology in their stores”.
Meanwhile, competitors include AmazonGo, QueueHop, and YouBeep, but Khanwala says what makes MishiPay different is the ability to have a ‘scan, pay, leave’ experience with zero friction points or barriers, security against theft with RFID that disables on its own, and deep integration with existing retail tech.
“We also have a patent-pending that protects the way we disable the RFID, the way we do our scanning to identify the item uniquely and the different interconnections of the systems,” he says.


Ignoring recent price rises for a second, if you can — there’s no greater sign of bitcoin fever than an app that lets you buy the cryptocurrency becoming the most downloaded app in the App Store.
That’s exactly what happened on Thursday when Coinbase, the $1.6-billion-valued company behind what is arguably the world’s best-known exchange for converting fiat into crypto, hit the top spot for free apps in Apple’s U.S. App Store for the first time as the price of bitcoin rocketed past $17,000 thanks via a price jump of over 20 percent in 24 hours.
The irony of Coinbase hitting the mainstream is that, for many customers, the service was actually unavailable for large portions of the day. The Coinbase app was hanging for many — making it impossible to check an account balance let alone buy into The Next Great Bitcoin Rush — and its web-based service didn’t fare any better. The site was “down for maintenance” for large chunks of the day, frustrating customers looking to buy, sell or merely access their account.


BREAKING:  Coinbase unavailable.
The company now has more customers than Charles Schwab and has opened as many as 300,000 accounts in a day.
Today has unprecedented volume and demand.
There are litterally so many people trying to buy Bitcoin that exchanges are crashing. pic.twitter.com/ZzMKkplyga
— Bruce Fenton (@brucefenton) December 7, 2017



Things appears to have stabilized at the time of writing and, to be fair to Coinbase, it wasn’t the only fiat-crypto exchange that buckled under the pressure and its capacity has clearly improved significant since its last major outage when bitcoin passed $2,000.
Still, it’s insane that an app can race to the top of the App Store despite not actually functioning for many users that very day. But hey, we live in a world where one bitcoin is worth north of $18,000 so ‘normal’ is becoming harder to define.


Samir Arora says it’s time for a new wave of applications that use reliable location data.
Arora previously founded Mode Media (which he departed before its shutdown last year, though he remains involved in Mode Media Japan) and NetObjects before that. Today he’s unveiling Sage Digital, the startup that he’s hoping will provide the data for that new wave.
Arora said Sage has been in stealth for the past two years, and that his Woodside Incubator has already provided $10 million in seed and Series A funding. (Not all of the funding was in cash — the $10 million also includes the value of technology and services provided by Woodside.)
Sage is also announcing that it has hired Crystal Ciancutti as its head of product. Ciancutti previously led the search product team at Airbnb, and before that led product marketing for iTunes at Apple.
When we talk about location data, Arora means GPS data, data about the businesses at which location and consumer data. There are plenty of existing sources for this information, of course, but as anyone who’s ended up trying to drive to a nonexistent or long-shuttered store knows, it’s not always accurate — we put up with it because it’s accurate enough.
Arora argued that an approach that values comprehensiveness over accuracy makes sense for search, where you just want to see as many results/locations as possible. However, as we move towards more personalized interactions and queries, accuracy becomes more important.
To achieve this accuracy, Sage is focused on what Arora called “verified sources.” By that he means an individual or publication “who is real, who has a verified real name, who has knowledge about locations, who actually checks in or goes to or says something about a location.”
So Sage has been building up a database of location data from these sources. It isn’t sharing specific numbers about how much data it’s gathered, but Arora said the team has done a lot of hard work to build artificial intelligence that can verify different sources. He also said that Sage’s data is worldwide, and he estimated that in a given category/place type, it’s been able to verify 60 to 70 percent of locations.
Next up, the startup is starting to work with developers who want to use this data to in things like location-based mobile apps, automotive apps and personal assistants. And Sage will also building some apps of its own.

Featured Image: Sage Digital


When it comes to tracking the effectiveness of online advertising campaigns, PhoneWagon CEO Ryan Shank said there’s been a big piece missing for most businesses — namely, how often those campaigns lead to phone calls.
Shank has plenty of experience in local marketing, having worked in sales at Yext, then serving as COO Mhelpdesk, which was sold to IAC’s HomeAdvisor.
And he’s announcing that PhoneWagon has raised $1.2 million in seed funding, led by Birchmere Ventures, with participation from Active Capital. The startup was part of the most recent class of startups at Techstars NYC, and its angel investors include early Yext employees Adam Liebman, Adam Kaplan and Dave Greenberger.
Shank acknowledged that there are existing call tracking services like CallRail, but he argued that their pricing and the difficulty of setup puts them out of reach for many small businesses.
“These other guys, they even speak too technical about it,” he said.
With PhoneWagon, Shank aimed to build something that was “easy-to-use, beautiful, simple” and therefore usable by SMBs.
Businesses just install a few lines of JavaScript on their website, then when someone comes to the site thanks to an online ad, they’re presented with a dynamically generated phone number.
If you’re the kind of company that gets a lot of business over the phone, these dynamic numbers make it easier to break down which traffic sources, keywords and campaigns drove the most valuable calls.
Other features include integrations with Google AdWords and other platforms, as well as the ability to show local and toll-free phone numbers to each visitor.
PhoneWagon already has nearly 150 customers and is added 40 new customers every month, Shank said.

Featured Image: Reza Estakhrian/Getty Images


The fight over a critical loophole in U.S. surveillance law may not be resolved in Congress before the year ends, but the Trump administration appears to have no qualms about keeping it open, even if the law expires.
The law, known as Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), is set to expire at the end of the 2017 calendar year unless renewed by lawmakers. Given its supporters in Congress, renewing Section 702 at the cost of American privacy seemed inevitable, but now lawmakers have their hands full trying to speed a controversial tax bill into law before the calendar turns over.
As The New York Times reports, “executive branch lawyers have now concluded that the government could lawfully continue to spy under the program through late April without new legislation,” a revelation that is sure to be just as controversial as the surveillance law itself, which is harshly criticized by privacy advocates for its practice of sweeping up the communications of American citizens while spying on foreign targets.
U.S. government officials have long dodged the question of how many Americans might be affected by Section 702 surveillance, but that hasn’t stopped people like Oregon Senator Ron Wyden from posing the question.
Speaking with the Times, Brian Hale, spokesperson for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, argued that because the law was recertified in April of this year that it is authorized to continue for 12 months after that date, a provision that would trump the law’s planned sunset date at the end of 2017.

Featured Image: Shutterstock


Deep Patel
Contributor



Deep Patel is a serial entrepreneur, marketer and the author of A Paperboy's Fable: The 11 Principles of Success.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Business in the age of Ethereum



ICOs have opened to the general public investments in blockchain ventures. In the third quarter of 2017 alone, ICOs raised more than $1.3 billion for crypto ventures — approximately five times more than funding raised through venture capital in the blockchain space.
There were more than 200 ICOs in 2017, and conducting due diligence on all of them would be extremely time-consuming, even for a knowledgeable analyst, let alone an amateur investor. This is compounded by the fact that blockchain is still considered to be an early-stage technology, with new consensus mechanisms and use cases being developed every day.
With exponential growth in public interest, esoteric terminology and a lax regulatory framework, it is no surprise that some ICOs have been used to fund scams and cheat investors of their money.
While nothing can compete with quality due diligence, knowing which red flags to look for in order to steer clear of scams or bad ICOs can be helpful.
Use case does not require blockchain
Not every venture needs a blockchain, and not everything needs to be decentralized. This might seem obvious, but with all the hype around blockchain technology and its disruptive potential, it can be easy to latch on to an idea the moment its whitepaper mentions a large industry the project is purportedly tackling.
Even projects that require cryptocurrencies as payment (e.g. Steemit, which rewards writers on its platforms with a native “digital points system,” Steem) could very well survive with existing cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ether.
When evaluating an ICO, a good first question to ask is: “Do we need a blockchain or a native token for this project?” If the answer is no to both, chances are the ICO project is an example of solutionism — crypto for crypto’s sake — or a scam.
Empty repositories for open-source projects
If an ICO project is proposing open-source code, an empty or nonexistent GitHub is often a red flag.
One of the key traits of many public blockchain projects is the fact that they are open-sourced. This means the code base is often uploaded to repositories like GitHub for all to examine. For those who have blockchain programming experience, looking through the published code can allow them to gauge a project’s validity.
If something seems like a scam, it probably is.
 
One of the most obvious red flags for a scam project is the lack of detail on how the technology works. For nontechnical investors, it can be helpful to simply check if a project has any existing files uploaded to public repositories or if a project has a functioning product.
While Reddit is generally not an advisable source for investment advice, sub-threads dedicated to discussions of specific ICOs or crypto assets often offer a good entry point for the more technical evaluations.
Mining structure disproportionately favors development team
While not always an accurate litmus test for scams on their own, the supply schedule and mining structure of an ICO can be used to cross-reference other data points and validate the intention of the founders.
In simple terms, a premine refers to when a portion of the tokens for a crypto project is made available to a small group prior to being made publicly available. At times, this can be a necessary vehicle to reward developers and early investors. However, if the percentage of total tokens supplied throughout the lifetime of the project reserved for a premine is high, there is reason for concern.
For instance, Paycoin, whose founder was found guilty of operating a $9 million fraud scheme, had the majority of their tokens reserved for developers on the project. Favoring the development team could be an indication that the team’s intent is to maximize their personal financial gain from the appreciation of the token, rather than maintain the viability of the blockchain network over time.
Anonymous team or team with weak experience
Understanding who is on the team behind a blockchain project is perhaps the most important step in your due diligence. Even if the premise of the venture and the addressable market seem attractive, one of the biggest determinants of a venture’s success is the makeup of the team behind it.
It is often a red flag if the team behind an ICO does not have any named full-time developers. Additional caution should be taken if none of the leadership team has any domain knowledge in the specific vertical.
When looking at a team and verifying their experience, platforms like Twitter and LinkedIn are useful. However, it’s important to note that they are not infallible, as profiles can be faked. If members of the team claim prior association with universities or companies, double-checking with reputable third-party sources (e.g. a university newspaper or the company website) can provide the facts.
ICOs often list their advisors on their websites. You should also verify whether the advisors are legitimate.
Insufficient information on website/whitepaper
If something seems like a scam, it probably is. When you are unsure whether a project is a scam, it is better to err on the side of caution. While it is possible that the lack of well-designed websites and detailed information for a crypto project is because the project is still in its infancy, it can be hard to determine whether a project is underdeveloped or a scam.
In many cases, they can be both. In those cases, interested investors can either wait for more information (such as in the case of Asia-based ICOs, where information is only translated into English later on in the project), or simply avoid ICOs they do not fully understand.
Nothing can compete with quality due diligence.
 
Another crucial source of information for all ICOs is the whitepaper — the document that outlines the mission, technical details, team and other crucial details behind the venture. While the amateur investor may not have the technical background to fully understand every aspect of a whitepaper, general understanding of blockchain concepts is a must when evaluating whitepapers.
Some more legitimate projects (e.g. Ethereum) offer a high-level whitepaper outlining the key points of the venture, alongside a detailed technical document that explains the technology behind the project.
No clear roadmap
Typically, ICO projects list their funding and development goals on a clear timeline for investors to see. The lack of a clear roadmap could indicate that the developing team has no long-term plan for the project, and as such is likely to be motivated solely by short-term financial gain. Paired with a large premine reserved for the developing team, this could be a strong indicator that an ICO project is not to be trusted with your money.
Often, ICO projects will have dedicated Slack or Telegram channels that the public can join. Through periodic updates distributed on these channels, potential investors can get a sense of how the project is developing.
However, malicious scammers can easily create a timeline out of thin air or provide fake updates on chat apps. While the lack of a timeline is certainly a red flag, the existence of one is not a wholly sufficient condition to indicate the legitimacy of an ICO project.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Apple says it has issued a fix for an iOS security flaw that left key connected home hardware open to unauthorized third-party access. The bug, which was initially spotted by 9to5Mac, reportedly made it possible for an outside party to access things like smart locks and garage doors.
The company has since confirmed with TechCrunch the existence of the bug. “The issue affecting HomeKit users running iOS 11.2 has been fixed,” an Apple spokesperson said in a statement. “The fix temporarily disables remote access to shared users, which will be restored in a software update early next week.” 
The fix appears to be a server-side update, meaning that the end-user doesn’t have to update anything for it to take effect. For the time being, it also means that users with 11.2  won’t have all of the standard remote HomeKit functionality, until Apple rolls out something more permanent next week. Getting that functionality back will require updating to the latest version of iOS. 
The initial report doesn’t detail the specifics of the exploit in its post, only noting that, “The vulnerability required at least one iPhone or iPad on iOS 11.2, the latest version of Apple’s mobile operating system, connected to the HomeKit user’s iCloud account.” It appears to be a difficult one to replicate and doesn’t impact earlier builds of the operating system. But it may highlight concerns around smart home functionality as users connect more pieces of their home to an ecosystem like HomeKit, Assistant or Alexa.
Bugs are part of any software solution, and Apple’s rushed to fix a couple of prominent ones on macOS and iOS in recent weeks. Like those, the company’s patched things up here with, hopefully, minimal inconvenience to the end user. But as always, it’s important to make a cost-benefit analysis of a connected home offering to decide if it’s the right fit.


Salesforce announced today that it was joining the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF), the open-source organization that manages Kubernetes, the popular open-source container orchestration tool.
It is the latest in a long line of big name companies, joining the likes of AWS, Oracle, Microsoft, VMware and Pivotal, all of whom joined in a flurry of activity earlier this year. Most of these other companies have more of a cloud infrastructure angle. Salesforce is a SaaS vendor, but it too is seeing what so many others are seeing: containerization provides a way to more tightly control the development process. Kubernetes and cloud native computing in general are a big part of that, and Salesforce wants a piece of the action.
Salesforce’s Mark Interrante wrote in a blog post on Medium announcing the partnership that it’s always a good sign when developers adopt new technologies like Kubernetes quickly. It proves that they see how these tools help create products faster and easier, certainly a goal for a company like Salesforce that is generating new products at a rapid pace.
In fact, Interrante wrote that Salesforce’s development teams have adopted many of the CNCF tools, including Kubernetes. “We’ve seen how containerization simplifies the orchestration of software across a large fleet of servers. Kubernetes makes a great foundation for continuous innovation/continuous delivery which then improves our software delivery,” Interrante wrote.
Salesforce, much like the other large software companies that have joined the CNCF, wants to benefit from being a part of the process and helping to influence the development of key tools moving forward. “This kind of collaboration, with Salesforce as an active participant in open technology ecosystems, is key to helping us move forward,” he wrote.
The CNCF and Kubernetes have become a force in the containerization space in a relatively short time. While Docker is another popular container technology that helps developers create containerized software, Kubernetes helps deploy and manage it all and Salesforce wants a closer relationship with the organization that’s running the project.

Featured Image: Mike Windle/Getty Images


Sony released some new stats today detailing the progression of sales for its PS4 console and PS VR headset systems. The numbers that matter: 70.6 million PS4 consoles, 617.8 million PS4 titles, 2 million PS VR headsets and 12.2 million PS VR titles.
Things appear to be moving along rather well in console-land, where Sony is almost certainly winning the console wars with Microsoft. Microsoft hasn’t released unit sales numbers since January of this year, when it announced that 26 million Xbox One units had been sold. In that time, Microsoft has released an updated version of the system, the 4K-playing Xbox One X. Sony released the souped-up PS4 Pro last year.
Meanwhile, Sony has also made significant inroads on sales of its VR headsets. The company announced in June that the company had sold 1 million headsets. The headset has been given a sort of price drop through the inclusion of a camera that had previously been an additional purchase.
With more than 60 million PS4 units sold, the company’s flagship console is rapidly approaching the lifetime sales of the PS3, which sold 70 million units over its entire life cycle. The PS4 first went on sale in North America in November of 2013. The PlayStation 2, the best-selling video game console of all time, sold 155 million units.


Last November, Facebook launched Instant Games, a new platform for gaming with friends inside the Messenger chat app. Today, the company is announcing a couple of notable new features for this gaming platform, including support for live streaming via Facebook Live and video chatting with fellow gamers.
The idea with Instant Games is to boost people’s time spent in Messenger by giving them something else to do besides just chat.
It also serves as Facebook’s newest attempt to return to dominance in social gaming. The company’s gaming platform years ago had earned a peak of a quarter-billion dollars per quarter on its 30 percent tax on in-game purchases, and it leveraged Facebook’s network effects to help games go viral.
But with the shift to mobile, Facebook’s position in gaming declined. These days, people spend more time gaming in native mobile apps built for iOS and Android devices.
When Instant Games first launched it offered 20 games across 30 markets, including titles like Pac-Man, Space Invaders, and Words With Friends Frenzy. Now that number has grown to over 70 games from more than 100 developers worldwide, the company says, including recently launched Tetris.
It will soon add other big names, like Angry Birds (built by CoolGames, who also built Tetris); Sonic Jump from SEGA; Disney Tsum Tsum, published by LINE; and a new game from Puzzle & Dragons maker, GungHo Online Entertainment, Inc.

To mark its one-year anniversary, Facebook is also debuting a couple of new features for its Instant Games: live streaming and video chat.
Live streaming begins rolling out today.
The feature, powered by Facebook Live, lets Messenger users broadcast their gameplay to their Facebook Page or profile. To use live streaming, you just tap on the new camera icon at the top right of the screen while gaming, then add a short description to be shared alongside your post. To start recording, you press the “Start Live Video” button.

The live broadcast is then shared to your Page or profile. When it ends, friends and fans can watch the saved recording.
With the live streaming feature, Facebook is playing catch up rivals like Twitch, YouTube and Microsoft, all of which today offer their own tools and services for live streaming games. However, in Facebook’s case, the addition is more casual – it’s more about sharing with friends, not monetizing a community through subscriptions, game sales, or custom chat icons, as you’d find on Twitch or YouTube, for example. (At least, not yet).

Facebook says it will soon start testing a feature that lets users video chat while gaming, as well. The feature will initially debut next year in Zynga’s Words with Friends, before expanding to other titles.
According to the company, over 245 million people video chat every month on Messenger. That makes for a large potential audience for a video chatting feature, which adds interactive element to the gaming experience. The feature will also challenge other popular video chatting and hangout apps popular with teens and young adults, like Fam, the app for group video chat via iMessage, for example, or Microsoft’s Skype, among others.
As part of today’s news, Facebook shared a few stats from its gaming partners. You can see these below:


San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors made it a lot tougher to test delivery robots this week. In a five to one vote, the committee handed down some strict regulations on on the cargo bots, which have been piloted on city sidewalks over the past several months. Supervisor Norman Yee, who initially proposed the regulation cited concerns around the ‘bots essentially taking over city sidewalks.
“Maybe five years from now, when we have 20,000 robots roaming around on the streets and people have to walk on the streets with the cars,” Yee told the Board. “Maybe then we’ll do something. That seems to be a problem we have in San Francisco, and I don’t want to let things get out of hand again.”
Yee’s initial language was more akin to an outright ban on the ‘bots. The restrictions have softened since its initial proposal, but things still don’t look great for startups at the forefront of robotic delivery services. 
According to the new rules, companies will be limited to three robots a piece, with nine total robots for the entire city. On top of that, the bots will be relegated to low population industrial areas, which kind of flies in the face of the whole notion of delivering stuff to people. 
Oh, and they’ll need constant human monitoring and won’t be able to travel more than three miles an hour — again, rendering much of their planned functionality moot.  In addition to fears around an urban robotic takeover, supporters of the law cited potential danger to pedestrians — in particular, children and the elderly. 
San Francisco’s robotic restrictions arrive on the tail of recent regulation in Virginia and Idaho, which allow delivery ‘bots to operate statewide. Unlike San Francisco’s version, those laws were created with the support of Starship Technologies, a robotics delivery startup based out of Estonia. Though those laws are restrictive in their own right, and rules do make things tougher for companies that aren’t Starship.
These sorts of robots have made some high profile appearances on San Francisco’s streets in the past year. In many cases, companies have teamed with food delivery services. Back in April, we spotted one ‘bot from Marble cruising the streets sporting a Yelp Eat24 logo. These regulations will no doubt put a sizable damper on plans to move beyond the earliest testing stages and could potentially convince startups to relocate to a more robot-friendly locale. 

Featured Image: Marble.io


Bitcoin prices are hockey-sticking on a hockey stick.
The cryptocurrency’s gains Thursday morning hit new heights, striking well above $18,000 across widely varying exchanges, coming to rest above $16,000 while the popular Coinbase exchange had been suffering major issues due to “record high traffic.”
Bitcoin was trading below $8,000 two weeks ago.
This is a truly, truly volatile game at this point; the swings didn’t appear as consequential when the market cap rested in the low billions, but as institutional pocketbooks push that cap to nearly $300 billion, the stakes are raised considerably.
What’s further disturbing is how widely the prices are varying across exchanges — there doesn’t seem to be a stable consensus on where the price is. While bitcoin prices on Coinbase’s GDAX exchange approached nearly $19,000 (!!!) this morning, others had the price sitting at thousands of dollars less.
via http://www.worldcoinindex.com/coin/bitcoin a few minutes ago
The price is currently trading at $15,499 on Bitfinex and $17,639 on GDAX. Coindesk’s bitcoin price index currently has the cryptocurrency trading around $16,000. These figures have probably swung by several hundred dollars since I typed this sentence.
The fact that even the most established exchanges are having trouble holding consensus on price isn’t great for buyers who can stand to lose (or gain) to exchange volatility on a currency that already has volatility baked into its ethos at this young stage.
The arbitrage opportunities appear to be significant here; generally, that alone is enough to correct the markets, but extreme congestion in both the bitcoin and ethereum blockchains are making it much harder to move bitcoin and ether between exchanges. For example, New York-based Gemini had temporarily suspended both bitcoin and ether withdraws this morning because the odds of a transaction actually processing were so low.
Something to always keep in mind:


а divorcing couple divides their Beanie Baby investment under the supervision of a judge, 1999: pic.twitter.com/NkMtsEvINe
— History Lovers Club (@historylvrsclub) December 7, 2017



 


Apple’s iPhone remains the most popular camera used by the Flickr community, the photo-sharing site revealed today in its annual review of camera rankings and top photos. This year, the iPhone beat out other camera makers – like Canon and Nikon, the number two and three respectively – by accounting for 54 percent of the top 100 devices used on the site, the company found. In addition, all top 10 devices of 2017 were iPhone models, Flickr says.
The site’s still sizable community of over 75 million registered users offers a good gauge of what devices people today use to take photos. Over the years, the top device has consistently been the iPhone – an indication of how consumers have moved away from traditional point-and-shoots for everyday photos. Many professionals also often turn to iPhone for their higher-quality photos thanks to Apple’s improvements to the smartphone’s camera.
The camera system on iPhones, in fact, has become a central focus for Apple’s technological advancements over the years, and has consistently remained of the top reasons to upgrade to the latest iPhone model. That remained true in 2017 as well, with the release of the iPhone 8 and iPhone X.

This year, iPhone has scored the majority (54%) of usage on Flickr’s site, up from 47 percent of the top 100 in 2016, and 42 percent the year prior. The iPhone also passed Nikon to score the spot as the second-most popular camera back in 2014.
Nikon was the third most popular brand with 18 percent in 2017, and Canon was number two, responsible for 23 percent of the top 100 devices.
In addition to the iPhone’s top ranking, Flickr’s list this year also shows the impact of smartphone use on the photography industry in general. The smartphone has become the dominant device choice by volume of uploads, Flickr notes.

This past year, smartphones accounted for half (50%) of all photos uploaded to Flickr, topping last year’s figure of 48 percent. DSLR usage has increased as well, up from 25 percent in 2016 to 33 percent in 2017.
The rise of smartphones and DSLRs have come at the expense of point-and-shoots in 2017. This category has seen the biggest drop of the year at 12 percent down from 48 percent in 2016 – a massive decline. Meanwhile, mirrorless remained at 4 percent of the total uploads for the third year in a row, the report stated.


E-commerce giant JD.com, the closest rival to Alibaba in China, is broadening its presence in Silicon Valley after it announced a collaboration with accelerator firm Plug and Play to seek out and work with promising U.S. startups.
The e-commerce giant said it will share technologies, including AI, cloud and smart supply chain tech, with the program generally and work together to launch a new cohort that taps into its extensive presence in China.
The new JD-backed program will be open to startups that cover “a range of areas and industries,” with a particular interest in those that operate in common areas such as robotics, AI, AR/VR and the cloud. Plug and Play will control the selection, with JD on hand to offer expertise, mentorship, technology and more. There will also be opportunities to tap into its network and sell products directly to Chinese consumers via its services, which processed a total of 658.2 billion RMB — or around $100 billion — in GMV during 2016.
JD listed on the Nasdaq in 2014 and today its market cap currently stands at $53 billion. The company opened its first Silicon Valley office in 2015 which is focused on R&D. This year, JD has increased its investment focus outside of China considerably, particularly in Southeast Asia where it has backed Go-Jek, Pomelo and Traveloka, and it is also keeping an eye on the early-stage scene in the U.S..
“JD believes that innovation should not only benefit new businesses, but also support traditional industries compete in today’s environment, and we look forward to identifying and partnering with like-minded startups in the US. Partnering with Plug and Play, we hope to unlock the potential of the next generation of companies, and help them succeed both in the US and China,” JD’s chief strategy office Dr. Jianwen Liao told TechCrunch in a statement.
The deal sees Plug and Play welcome its first partner from China. Earlier this year the Sunnyvale-based company announced a major expansion to launch nine new cohorts that cover verticals including fintech, food and beverage, IOT and mobility. Unlike its peers in the U.S., such as Y Combinator, Plug and Play has expanded overseas and its global presence includes locations as diverse as Brazil, Germany, Russia, Singapore, Spain and Canada.
“Partnering with JD.com, one of China’s premier technology players, will give startups access to both tremendous innovation resources, as well as a huge helping hand as they look to reach the Chinese market,” added Plug and Play CEO and founder Saeed Amidi.

Featured Image: VCG/Getty Images


Despite a belief that women don’t support each other, Tara&Co is bringing on three female leaders in the tech industry to serve on the lifestyle startup’s advisory council. Hearsay Systems CEO Clara Shih, Google GM of small and medium business ads Kim Spalding and Etsy COO Linda Kozlowski are all coming on board to advise Tara&Co.
“There’s a common meme that women don’t support each other and that’s why they don’t rise,” Tara&Co CEO Julia Lam told TechCrunch. “I don’t think that’s true.”
As an example, Lam noted the recent launch of Female Founder Office Hours, led by Sequoia Capital’s Jess Lee and other prominent female VCs in tech.
“When you have women at the top, it trickles down,” Lam said.
With Shih, Spalding and Kozlowski on board, Lam hopes to further Tara&Co’s mission of building beautiful yet functional products for the professional woman.
“For any startup to be successful, you need the best team — both staff internally and advisors and mentors to help guide you along the way to help you focus and iterate on your product, and future business strategies,” Lam said. “People who have seen the problem before, and can point you in the right direction so when you see a challenge, you can more easily navigate it.”
Tara&Co’s goal is to “fuse fashion and function,” Lam said. All of the products are designed to be aesthetically appealing yet have lots of hidden and convertible functionality.
“The women we design for need to look good, but also seek practical accessories as they navigate their busy schedules and often switch from work to play.”
Tara&Co was totally bootstrapped through the research and development process. In June, the company completed a crowdfunding campaign that resulted in more than $110,000 in funding. Already, the company is generating revenue, mostly from its Tracy 2-in-1 bag, which is named after former Pinterest engineer and Project Include co-founder Tracy Chou.


Pinterest today said it is hiring a new head of corporate and business development, bringing on former Facebooker Gary Johnson as it looks to continue to expand.
The hiring comes at a time when Pinterest recently saw its president, Tim Kendall, depart to start his own company. As Pinterest looks to ramp up its pitch to advertisers, it needs to bring on people who can deal with potential partners — as well as ones that can scout out new business opportunities that Pinterest can expand (or acquire its way) into. That’s going to be critical as the company positions itself as a company proficient in visual search and to break out of experimental advertising budgets.
Johnson was most recently Facebook’s director of corporate development, and prior to that worked at Credit Suisse and Apple in a number of operating and development roles. With a history as a VP at Credit Suisse, and corporate development at Facebook, Johnson is going to bring in a lot of experience to the company that is looking to grow internationally and continues to sell itself as a potential primary advertising product. That means dealing with a new slate of partners — which may have different needs or demands — abroad and trying to identify spots on Pinterest that make sense for expansion.
Pinterest has been somewhat acquisitive, though there hasn’t been anything particularly splashy (outside of Jelly, which may seem like more of a name than anything). It has acquired a number of teams, like the ones behind Highlight and Shorts, and also last year picked up Instapaper, which continues to live on in the App Store. But its new sweet spot where it wants to expand, visual search, can find some of its origins in the acquisition of VisualGraph back in 2014.
Pinterest is flush with some additional funding, having raised an additional $150 million earlier this year at a $12.3 billion valuation. The company now has more than 200 million users, and as it looks to build more products, like its camera search product Lens, it has to come up with a unique way to tell its story to potential partners that differs from Facebook or Google — which continue to dominate the awareness and intent slots of the online advertisement ecosystem.


In January, Microsoft acquired 3D optimization service Simplygon for an undisclosed sum. Today, we’re seeing the fruits of that buy with the launch of Simplygon Cloud, which the company hopes will help game developers integrate the optimization tool into their workflows to make content more friendly to resource-intensive AR and VR platforms.
The tool, launching on the Azure Marketplace, works in reducing polygon complexity for 3D objects so that they’re easier to render when compute resources are in high demand.
Simplygon takes the couch on the left (584K polygons) and makes the one on the right with just 5K polygons
This past week, Google announced their Poly API, which makes it easier for game developers to import 3D assets into what they’re working on. Google has largely been focusing on stylized low-poly objects for the most part as they look to make objects more friendly to the GPU restrictions of their Daydream VR platform.
Simplygon Cloud is operating in a similar vein for Microsoft; the company launched its Mixed Reality platform this fall with a bunch of VR headset makers, and resource constraints are now a much more real thing to Windows game developers in VR (and AR with HoloLens). As the name implies, what Microsoft is now doing is sending this capability to the cloud, so assets can be delivered across differently specced platforms with unique cloud-based 3D pipelines for object libraries.
What makes Simplygon a more attractive option compared to competitors is that it’s obviously easier to reduce complexity than increase it, so by allowing game devs to focus on building high-detail 3D objects and allowing Simplygon Cloud to minimize them for the appropriate platform, developers won’t have to rebuild objects as compute capabilities increase over time.
Simplygon Cloud is available in the Azure Marketplace now.


Following Lyft’s recent $1.5 billion funding round, the company has decided to bring on board Kristina Omari as its first-ever vice president of corporate development and investor relations as it continues to grow. Omari also happens to now be the highest ranking black female executive at Lyft.
Lyft, according to its June 2017 diversity report, has a leadership team that is just one percent black. Leadership includes managers who have direct reports. In taking a closer look at its EEO-1 report from 2016, Lyft had zero black women in management roles. Of the 54 black women Lyft employed at the time of the report, only 10 were professionals while 44 were in administrative support jobs. Omari, however, is not the only black woman in a management role or higher, a Lyft spokesperson told TechCrunch.
“I’m thrilled to be part of this incredible team and mission,” Omari said in a statement. “Lyft has had an amazing year, and I can’t wait to help the company continue delivering for passengers and drivers.”
Omari was most recently VP of corporate development at Fitbit and co-founder of diversity and inclusion non-profit organization BuildUp.
“We couldn’t be more excited to welcome Kristina to our growing team,” Lyft Chief Financial Officer Brian Roberts said in a statement. “She brings a proven track record of helping companies grow in a fast-paced environment. Her skills and experience will help Lyft continue to expand as we work toward our mission of improving people’s lives with the world’s best transportation.”


America’s top airlines are taking a stand against smart luggage. In a rare bit of solidarity, a number of the country’s top carriers have announced rules that would limit the use of high-tech bags, over fear of potential battery combustion. 
American Airlines led the charge on the ban. On Friday of last week, the carrier noted a policy change set to go into effect just after the busy holiday season. “Beginning Jan. 15, customers who travel with a smart bag must be able to remove the battery in case the bag has to be checked at any point in the customer’s journey. If the battery cannot be removed, the bag will not be allowed,” the company wrote in a statement.
The airline cited the potential risk of lithium battery combustion. The move echoes last year’s concerns around Samsung’s Galaxy Note 7 — though unlike that move, this is more of a proactive step. The company cites general potential concerns, rather than specific incidents. The ban is focused specifically on checked luggage, placed in the cargo hold of a plane. 
Interestingly, the selective ban does not apply should the customer bring the luggage into the main cabin as a carry on. Once checked, however, the luggage will only be allowed if the battery is removed from the bag. That option isn’t available on all pieces of smart luggage, rendering them essentially worthless. 
Both Delta and Alaska have released similar languages set for the same time frame, and CNN is reporting that United Continental and Southwest are set to follow suit soon. As the site notes, that covers roughly 80-percent of air traffic in the States, which, naturally, puts the nascent smart luggage industry in a pretty tough spot. These sweeping changes have left some startups feeling singled out. 
“The latest changes are an absolute travesty and is a huge step back not only for travel technology but it also presents an obstacle to streamlining and improving the way we all travel,” Bluesmart CEO Tomi Pierucci said in a strongly worded note to TechCrunch. “If they are going to ban smart bags, then they should be banning cameras, laptops, and phones being checked in or carried on. All of these have at some point caused issues with exploding batteries and yet it is smart bags and Bluesmart that is getting punished for this.”
The moves stems from the International Air Transport Association. Though the IATA doesn’t regulate these sorts of rules, unlike, say, the FAA. Rather, the airlines have implemented individual, but largely consistent versions of the rules. 
Some companies in the space appear to have prepared a ruling along these lines. In a statement provided to TechCrunch, Away CEO Steph Korey touted the company’s luggage design. “All Away Carry-Ons have batteries that can be easily removed. It’s a feature we thoughtfully designed, in part, because customers were asking for a charger that could be kept with them and used during flight.”
If the regulation stays in place, it will likely cause other players to implement similar functionality. In the meantime, however, it leaves a number of companies in a tough spot. “We create the category from an old industry which hasn’t had any innovation in the last 50 years,” says Pierucci. “And now they are trying to eliminate us and the category. By making a removable battery, the suitcase will become stupid.”


With the rise of Kubernetes as the de facto standard for container orchestration, it’s no surprise that there’s now a whole ecosystem of companies springing up around this open source project. Heptio is one of the most interesting ones, in no small part due to the fact that it was founded by Kubernetes co-founders Joe Beda and Craig McLuckie. Today, Heptio announced that it is teaming up with Microsoft on its Heptio Ark project, which it launched earlier this year.
Heptio Ark is a utility for managing backups and disaster recovery that helps you bring your Kubernetes clusters and volumes back up after your run into a major issue in your data center.
The plan is for Microsoft and Heptio to work together on strengthening Ark’s core capabilities, but also on making it a tool for moving Kubernetes applications across on-premise environments and — unsurprisingly — Microsoft Azure and the Azure Container Service (AKS — because Microsoft hasn’t come around to renaming it to ‘Azure Kubernetes Service’ just yet).
“Few real-world companies live solely in the public cloud,” said Heptio CEO Craig McLuckie. “It is incredibly important that the tools and practices they adopt when selecting their public cloud services work on-premises as well. Microsoft’s commitment to working with the open source community will not only benefit Azure customers, but strengthens the Kubernetes community.”
What’s also interesting about this move is that it brings the three Kubernetes co-founders together, with Beda and McLuckie at Heptio, and Microsoft’s Brendan Burns, who worked with the Heptio founders at Google when they launched the Kubernetes project into open source (and who was the lead engineer for Kubernetes at Google).
“I’m excited to see Heptio and Microsoft deliver a compelling solution that satisfies an important and unmet need in the Kubernetes ecosystem,” said Burns. “We’re working with Heptio to ensure that the integration of Ark and Azure is a best-of-breed solution for backing up on-premise Kubernetes clusters into the cloud.”

Featured Image: alzay/Getty Images


Burrow, a startup bringing a Casper-style approach to manufacturing and delivering sofas, is announcing that it has raised $4.3 million in seed funding.
This might not sound like the most obvious area for a startup to tackle — unless you’ve had the experience of trying to carry a couch up a twisty flight of stairs, or attempting to squeeze it through a narrow doorway.
Burrow’s sofas are delivered in a compact box, and assembly is only supposed to take 10 minutes, no tools required. They also have a modular design that makes them easier to move from house to house or apartment to apartment, and to expand with more seats when you have a larger living space.
You can buy Burrow’s sofas in one-, two-, three- or four-seat configurations — the three seater currently costs $1,095, with free shipping and a 30-day trial.
Stephen Kuhl explained via email that he and his co-founder Kabeer Chopra came up with the idea while they were studying at The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, after they both had negative experiences buying couches — Chopra had to wait weeks for his West Elm sofa, which he carried home to avoid the shipping cost, while Kuhl spent hours assembling his Ikea sofa.
“Typically, sofas are either cheap, flimsy and extremely annoying to set up or heavy, expensive and take months to ship,” Kuhl said. “Simply put, there is no affordable, convenient sofa for the modern consumer. Either buy something that’s basically disposable or overpay for something that may not even fit through the front door of your next home.”
The Y Combinator-backed startup launched in April and says it has been growing 20 percent month-over-month since then, currently hitting a $7 million annualized revenue run rate. It’s also expanded its product lineup with a chaise sectional and an ottoman, and it moved its manufacturing from Mexico City to Mississippi.
The seed round was led by Red & Blue Ventures (a firm focused on startups coming out of the University of Pennsylvania), with participation from Interplay Ventures, Twitch.tv Founder Justin Kan, Y-Combinator CEO Michael Seibel and retail executive Ken Pilot.
“Burrow is the most exciting consumer products company out of Wharton since Warby Parker,” said Brett Topche, managing director at Red & Blue Ventures, in the funding announcement.


Google is testing a new feature that will allow celebrities and other notable figures to answer users’ search queries directly in the form of “selfie” videos posted in the Google Search results. The company says this program is initially being piloted on mobile with a handful of people for now, including Priyanka Chopra, Will Ferrell, Tracee Ellis Ross, Gina Rodriguez, Kenan Thompson, Allison Williams, Nick Jonas, Mark Wahlberg, James Franco, Seth MacFarlane, Jonathan Yeo and Dominique Ansel.
Of course, the celebs aren’t answering users’ queries in real-time. Instead, Google has had them pre-record their videos in response to what it already knows are some of fans’ most-asked questions typed into the Google search box.
The videos provide answers to questions like “Can Will Ferrell really play the drums?” or “How many languages does Priyanka Chopra speak?” or “Can Tracee Ellis Ross sing?,” for example.
When users search for one of these queries, the video answers will appear at the top of the search results, above Google’s standard set of blue links.
After watching the first video, the carousel automatically switches to the next one in the celeb’s series of Q&A’s, or you can can choose to swipe through them yourself.

This isn’t the first time Google has opened up its search results to celebrities.
In March, the company announced that more organizations and celebs could take advantage of the “Posts on Google” feature. Initially an experiment during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, Posts on Google lets individuals post Twitter-like status updates right on Google’s search results pages. This year, Google expanded the feature to organizations like museums, sports teams and leagues, and people and firms associated with movie-making, later followed by local businesses.
Using Posts on Google, people could share images, videos, and GIFs, in addition to text.
With this launch, Google was trying to make its search engine itself a more social product, instead of only relying on the Twitter search results it aggregates to pull in these sort of shorter answers.
The new celeb video Q&A feature seems to take that idea a step further, turning previously run-of-the-mill search results into something that feels like it would be more at home on a mobile social app, like Instagram.
While Google has historically updated its search results to return answers and information beyond the world of text-based web pages, these celeb videos have a tinge of social envy to them, on Google’s part. The company has never figured out how to build a successful social platform of its own, having instead brought us creations like the overly engineered Google+, and various social app failures, like group chat app Spaces.
Given it can’t seem to build a real social platform, it’s now trying to make Google Search itself feel more social, it seems.
The feature may also increase users’ time on site using Google, which could impact the company’s bottom line.
The video results are appearing in mobile search results, and in the Android Google app. The iOS Google app is rolling out the videos over the course of the day, Google tells us.
[updated 1:20 pm et with rollout details]


On-demand labor marketplaces have been around for decades on the internet. Paying someone to identify a cat using Amazon Mechanical Turk or hiring someone to program a quick website on Upwork is easy — post a job, select someone, pay a few bucks and you’re done.
While hiring individuals is reasonably straightforward, building teams to accomplish specialized projects is a far more challenging problem, and few industries have as challenging a need as the pharmaceutical and medical devices industry.
Launching a new therapeutic might require hiring hundreds if not thousands of consultants, covering everything from Bayesian statistical design for clinical trials to market mapping and physician education. A single day’s delay could cost millions of dollars, so hiring the right people at the right time is crucial for a launch to go off without a hitch.
Today, that process is almost entirely manual, but Clora, a startup based in Boston, hopes to completely transform that process. The company is announcing a $3.3m seed round led by Spark Capital, with participation from Social Capital, Ludlow Ventures, Notation Capital, iSeed Ventures, v1 VC, and KohFounders.
The two founders of the startup, Rahul Chaturvedi and Leaya Martelli, came up with the concept while working day jobs in the pharmaceutical industry. Chaturvedi is a veteran of the industry, having headed up clinical affairs at Avedro, GI Dynamics, and Kaleido Biosciences over the past seven years. He worked with Martelli, a biotech recruiter, throughout those years, and constantly came back to the problem of how to hire the exact talent needed for their projects.
Leaving a promising (and safe) career in the pharma industry wasn’t easy for Chaturvedi. “The choice that I had to make was do I want to spend the next five to ten years of my life on new therapies that may or may not get to market, or spend my time and energy to build a technology platform that has the potential to fundamentally change how an industry operates?” He chose the latter, and left his job in September of 2016 to build Clora full-time.
Clora is a classic two-sided marketplace that matches biotech consultants with bio companies who need talent for projects. Where it gets tricky is the extraordinarily specific skill specialization required to complete projects. Clora’s front page funnel starts with 29 different specialities, ranging from legal and accounting to GxP Quality Assurance and Safety/Pharmacovigilance.
Chaturvedi emphasized that defining and building reputation is one of the most important long-term goals for Clora. “One of the issues with endorsements on LinkedIn is that they are noisy – anyone can endorse you. Reputation in this industry is really important.” Given that importance, Clora is designed to take into account the opinions of other experts to evaluate the work made by people on the platform. “We are able to use experts to vet other experts,” he noted.
Spark investor John Melas-Kyriazi led the round and will be joining Clora’s board. This will be Melas-Kyriazi’s third board on the East Coast, as he also holds observer seats on the boards of New York City-based Andela and Boston-based FreightFarms. I asked the SF-based investor why the heavy interest in the East Coast. “When we meet a great company we dig in, no matter where they are based.” Clearly a pattern, if not a theme.
Melas-Kyriazi noted that Spark has had a long interest in consumer marketplaces, with investments in companies like Postmates, and that while the firm has not traditionally looked at life sciences startups, the product clearly fit their investment interests. “The combination of this big problem and Rahul’s approach to using consumer product insights,” is what drove the decision to invest in the company, he said.
Ultimately, Chaturvedi hopes that the time and money saved from improving hiring processes across the pharma industry will lead to lower-priced therapeutics that also come to market much faster. “I have seen a lot that is great in the industry and a lot of what is holding us back, ” he said. With Clora, there might be a path forward to reshape how people work to build new therapies, and ultimately benefit us all.

Featured Image: Dawn Huczek/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


Netflix has been teasing the next season of Black Mirror at an excruciatingly slow pace.
But now, we have everything we need to emotionally prepare for Season 4, including a release date.
Yesterday, Netflix released the full Season 4 trailer, finally informing a desperate fanbase that the new season will be released on December 29. Ring in 2018 with hope and optimism, right?
If you haven’t been following along, here are the most important details:
The next season has six episodes. The titles of those episodes are U.S.S. Callister, Black Museum, Arkangel, Metalhead, Hang the DJ, and Crocodile. Each one has their own trailer, which you can check out below, in the order in which they were released:
Arkangel

Crocodile

Black Museum

Hang the DJ

Metalhead

U.S.S. Callister


Over the past several years, tech year-end lists have become as much of an annual tradition as Twilight Zone marathons and going to a bar to get away from the family on Christmas Eve. Apple dropped its big list today and surprise, there aren’t really too many surprises here — though it’s a useful reminder that, at least so far as entertainment is concerned, 2017 wasn’t a complete dumpster fire. 
In the world of apps, the company defines a quartet of “breakout” trends that defined the year in downloads. Health and mindfulness were, not surprisingly, a key point. Meditation apps like Calm got a big boost, no doubt spurred on by what turned out to be another ridiculously stressful year for most of us. Nothing like a little mindfulness to take one’s mind of the seemingly imminent collapse of organized society. 
Augmented reality also qualified as a breakout — and here at least, this appears to only be the tip of the iceberg. Keep in mind, ARKit really just got rolling this year, and the iPhone X only just hit the market. Sure, games like Pokemon Go helped spur initial interest in the technology, but efforts from big players like Ikea and MLB, combined with some really clever small developers seem poised to help AR really take off over the next couple of years. 
Moana, Disney’s computer animated tale of a teenager on a quest to save her people, topped the movie charts this year. Next in line was the standalone Star Wars movie Rogue One, followed by Wonder Woman, the well-received DC Comics film that managed to stand out in an era where it seems like every other film is a superhero flick. 
Everyone’s favorite Canadian rapper Drake found another spot at the top of the lists, with iTunes’ best selling record, More Life. Ed Sheeran’s ridiculously ubiquitous “Shape of You” was the year’s top song, and Apple gives a special nod to Taylor Swift’s Reputation, which currently sits at number three for the year, in spite of having been released less than a month ago. 
As for TV shows — Game of Thrones, obviously. The Walking Dead is up there as well, along with a couple of new shows, including Big Little Lies, This is Us, Victoria and The Americans. NPR interview stalwart Fresh Air held strong as the top podcast, and The Handmaid’s Tale took top honors on the book list, courtesy of a Hulu adaptation and general societal dystopia.


Technology has made buying stuff for your house a whole lot easier to do on a whim, but there haven’t seemed to be quite as many advancements in terms of ensuring that what you buy actually makes your space look good.
Modsy isn’t an augmented reality company as much as they are a 3D imaging startup that’s aiming to help you augment your living space’s style. Users can snap a few photos of a room in their house with any basic phone camera, then a short bit later Modsy reconstructs the space in 360 3D and sends you a couple totally new designs based on your “style genome,” which it calculates via a short questionnaire.
The startup announced this morning that they’ve closed a $23 million Series B round led by Advance Venture Partners. previous investors including Norwest Venture Partners, NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment and Comcast Ventures also participated in the round. The company has raised $33.75 million to date.
“Thanks to advancements in 3D renderings, the days of guessing how furniture and decor will look inside a space is long gone,” said Modsy CEO Shanna Tellerman. ““This round of funding
indicates that the industry is at a tipping point, and Modsy is leading the charge by taking a technology-first approach to transforming the home design market.”
Since launching to consumers, Modsy has spent more and more time automating steps in the process related to both crafting the 3D space and designing it. They’ve been able to decrease the amount of time that humans are needed in the process by an impressive 90 percent and have accordingly been able to slash the price of their service from $99 to $69.
The startup people to get a more definite photo-realistic look into how specific furniture would look in their house than current AR tech is really capable of. Better yet the entire redesigned digital space is entirely shoppable and allows users to click and purchase things that catch their eye for the room. With the 3D Modsy Style Editor (in beta) you can then swap out items based on what you’ve purchased and update the overall look before progressing.
 

For users that do want a more human touch, you can get a certified style advisor to help you through the process of designing or redesigning your space for $199. Modsy’s customer tend to be those going through major life stages, moving into a new home with their significant other, having a child etc.
A major focus for Modsy has continued to be partnerships, Tellerman says the company has joined efforts with more than 100 retail partners like Target, West Elm, Wayfair and others. One such pairing has been with Crate and Barrel on a co-branded CrateDesignStudio room designer which uses Modsy’s service to redesign customers’ spaces entirely with C&B furniture.
You can take the service for a whirl here.


Instagram has changed a lot since its acquisition by Facebook in 2012.
The original premise was so simple. Beautify your photo and share it to your friends in a couple clicks. Like your friends photos with a simple scroll and a double-tap.
Now, Instagram has videos and gifs (Boomerang). It has its own set of superstars and an algorithmic feed that helps those superstars dominate users’ feeds, including mine. And it has a direct messaging system.
Today, Instagram is testing out yet another change with the launch of a standalone Instagram Direct app. For now, the app is only available in Uruguay, Chile, Turkey, Italy, Portugal and Israel.
The Verge first noticed the test.
Instagram had this to say on the test:
We want Instagram to be a place for all of your moments, and private sharing with close friends is a big part of that. To make it easier and more fun for people to connect in this way, we are beginning to test Direct – a camera-first app that connects seamlessly back to Instagram.
The app will let you create and share stories, and give you access to exclusive filters, Boomerang and other creative tools on Instagram. And, of course, your Instagram friends are added instantly to the Instagram Direct app.
This begs the question: Why build a separate app for stuff that’s already available and functional within Instagram? The most obvious answer is that this is yet another barrage in the Instagram’s assault on Snapchat.
And it’s been working. In January, TechCrunch reported that the launch of Instagram Stories had resulted in lower usage of Snapchat Stories. The launch of Instagram Direct, with its perception of more private and intimate one-to-one conversations, could feasibly have the same effect on Snapchat’s direct messaging.



1-Direct-IOS-English




2-Direct-IOS-English




3-Direct-IOS-English




4-Direct-IOS-English




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


There’s also the question of Messenger. Facebook is clearly making a play to get younger users back on the Facebook platform with the launch of Facebook Messenger Kids. The launch of Instagram Direct may be another part of that strategy.
The only specifics we have, if you can even call them specifics, is that the app will launch globally next year after Instagram has worked out the bugs and responded to user feedback.

Featured Image: Bloomberg/Getty Images


PullRequest, a Y Combinator Summer 17 graduate, announced a $2.3 million seed round today led by Google’s new AI fund, Gradient Ventures.
The Slack Fund, Fika Ventures, Defy Ventures, Lynett Capital, FundersClub and Joe Montana’s Liquid2 Ventures also participated.
The company has been concentrating on providing code review as a service, a task that often gets lost in today’s high-speed agile development cycles. The company has set up a system of on-demand code reviewers who check for bugs, security issues, coding standards and performance problems.
That wouldn’t seem to have anything to do with the focus of Google’s Gradient Ventures mission, but company founder Lyal Avery says the road map for his company goes far beyond the code reviewer service.
They plan to bring automation to the coding process, so they can pick up issues automatically such as when dependency code, open source pieces in a particular application, have a critical update.
Perhaps it’s not a coincidence that Slack also participated in this round as one of the first automation pieces PullRequest is working on involves a Slack bot to inform developers when one of those dependency pieces requires updating. While that project is still in Alpha testing right now, it’s the general direction of the company, Avery explained.
Avery recognizes that as his company builds up its code reviewing service, it’s going to create a mass of data about the coding process and common reviewer issues. He says that they are scoring and reviewing their code review projects to build that data set. While he doesn’t see a time when humans are removed from the reviewing equation, he does see using this data to automate the repair of common problems. “At the end of the day, it’s about how efficiently we drive code review,” he said.
When we spoke to Avery in August, the company had 200 reviewers and 300 companies on the platform. Today, it has 1000 companies and 1900 reviewers as the company has grown in leaps and bounds since then.
Avery moved back to Austin, Texas after graduating from Y Combinator, and has since hired four more people for a total of six employees. They plan on using this money to continue to grow the company and have plans to double the number of employees next month alone and go from there.

Featured Image: Getty Images


Less than a month after raising $100 million led by Fidelity, real-estate startup Compass is striking while the iron is hot. The company has now picked up an even bigger investment of $450 million, this time from the SoftBank Vision Fund, plus another $50M in secondary deals, to fill out a vision of its own: taking its real estate rental and sales platform global.
New York-based Compass is now valued at $2.2 billion post-money, up from $1.8 billion just four weeks ago, with $775 million raised to date.
The massive round essentially overlapping with the previous round — Allon was closing the SoftBank deal in Japan on the same day that the Fidelity investment was getting announced — is not the first notable financial milestone for the startup.
Compass set the pace on this front with its debut back in 2012, when it was called Urban Compass and announced funding of $8 million from an elite group of backers, at the time one of the largest-ever seed rounds for a startup (all things are relative: $8 million seems almost quaint now).
Ori Allon, the co-founder and chairman of Compass, said in an interview that the plan is not only to keep growing in the US from its current footprint of 11 cities — that was one of the stated purposes for the last $100 million in funding — but now to turn that strategy to a wider, global stage.
“We realised that to hit the goal of where we want to be in the next two to three years — Compass everywhere, in every major city worldwide — we needed another partner, and that is the vision Softbank is aligned with,” Allon said in an interview. 
The Softbank Vision Fund is the tech and investment firm’s massive, nearly $100 billion fund with partners that include the likes of Apple, Qualcomm, Foxconn and a variety of Middle Eastern investors that is taking huge bets on what it believes are or will emerge as the category leaders across a number of areas. Investments include Uber, WeWork, MapBox, Slack and now Compass, among others.
Some of what has made this startup such a confident bet with founders has been the startup’s pedigree. Allon has an engineering background and had already sold startups to Google and Twitter, and the tech in those startups proved to be foundational to each company’s search business; co-founder and CEO Robert Reffkin is an ex-Goldman Sachs banker who has his own gilded background.
And some of the interest has been because of the tech itself: originally conceived as a kind of disruptor to the business and potential of hyperlocal information, Compass finally took the form of doing this in relation to one specific aspect of living locally: the place where you actually live. Its platform is a clutter-free, easy to read, pared-down but informative list of places that are already vetted before they are placed on the site to match a profile of a typical Compass user.
As for who that user is, Compass so far has focused on high-end properties and customers, which has given it a strong funnel for high values and good margins, as well as a steady stream of people with income to spend on their housing. (And yes, the plan longer term is to widen that out, Allon said, but for now there is still more to do in its current market segment.)
Compass is most certainly not the first company to build a platform to connect would-be home buyers / renters with properties — there are giants like Zillow, Trulia, Redfin, Homes.com, and Rent. com — but you might think of Compass as the equivalent of the launch of the first iPhone to the various other smartphones that preceded it. It has streamlined what it’s trying to do, and is carefully controlling the experience, with a firm eye on who will be using it — all with the benefit of hindsight of what had come before it.
Perhaps most of all, it seems that for investors, the proof has been in the pudding.
The funding comes on the back of huge growth for Compass. Its roster of top agents — a key part of the company’s two-sided business that is both resident-facing and agent-facing — has grown 500 percent in the last 24 months, and this is helping to bring in more choice inventory to meet demand. The company itself is on track to hit 16,000 transactions and more than $14 billion in sales this year, as well as more than $350 million in revenue.
“Real estate is a huge asset class, but the sector has been relatively untouched by technology and remains inefficient and fragmented,” said Justin Wilson, a senior investment professional at SoftBank’s Vision Fund, in a statement. “Compass is building a differentiated, end-to-end tech platform that aggregates across diverse data streams to support agents and homebuyers through the entire process, well beyond the initial home search. With disruptive technology and unique data advantages, Compass is well-positioned for future growth in a sector that represents trillions in transaction volume.”


Historically, financial organizations have watched forlornly through the front window while startups have adopted new and cool tools like Slack, Twitter, and Convo. Now they can join in the fun with something called Echofin.
You can imagine the product as a sort of hyper-powered Slack for financial groups. Users can message each other and view portfolios and investment news and small groups can get together and create paid rooms for sharing proprietary or important trading advice.
“Traders need to communicate and exchange ideas, discuss the market, get educated, post signals and share their thoughts on trading positions,” said co-founder Kris Leonidou. “300 million retail traders use whatever is available: irrelevant and incoherent solutions since there was no right tool for them.”



widgets




signals_full




Photo 06-12-2017, 14 13 57




features_small-700x389




chat-1




billing-1




791602-3cbba5c001cb51beaaf820a585baf9fda1e2f9a8




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


“Any team owner in Echofin can set up public or pay-to-access rooms, define billing plans and make them available to their users. Users pay directly within the chatrooms and instantly unlock access to the premium rooms. And that’s how we make our money: 10% on each transaction through the platform. Creating a team is totally free.”
Private teams cost $12 a month per user.
They’ve raised a seed round and started out in 2013 when they launched at TechCrunch Disrupt. Their new version is working on creating brand new ways for traders and enthusiasts to connect online.


Whether your hair is straight, curly, color-treated or oily, the texture is unique. And a newly launched startup called Prose thinks your hair products should be, too.
Prose is working with hair salons and stylists to build custom formulations for clientele. They’ll not only take into account a person’s hair type but whether their city has pollution, wind or humidity. Prose will also work with customers who want their products to be Vegan or GMO-free.
The New York-based startup is raising $5.2 million to kick off its launch. The round is led by Forerunner Ventures, with participation from Correlation Ventures. Existing investors include Lerer Hippeau Ventures and Maveron, with its total capital raised amounting to $7 million.
CEO Arnaud Plas used to work at L’Oreal and said he “spent a lot of time… trying to understand deep pain points that we could fix.” He wants Prose “to make personalized hair care accessible.”
Kirsten Green, who invested in Prose through Forerunner Ventures, said that this fits here investment thesis of “micropersonalization.” She spoke of Prose’s “growing intelligence layer around machine learning,” which will help customize the items.
While competitors like Function of Beauty offer custom products based on an online quiz, Prose takes it one step further by getting stylists involved. Salons in San Francisco and New York have signed up to work with Prose, helping to design shampoos, conditioners and hair masks for their customers. The salons then take a 25% commission.
But it’s not cheap. Just 8.5 ounces of shampoo will cost between $28 and $38. The cost of personalization is expensive and the items are not yet priced for profitability.
Plas said he will use the funding for research and development. Prose manufactures the items in France.


To hear Naspers and the Latin American marketplace developer Movile tell it, food is the thing to make a company king in international markets.
Naspers, a South African-based global investor and media conglomerate, has joined the private equity firm Innova Capital to funnel another $82 million into Movile — primarily to increase Movile’s stake in iFood, a Latin American food delivery vendor.
Movile has business lines that include logistics and delivery, ticketing, online gaming and education, but it’s the food business that has drawn the attention of most investors.
“The food delivery market is expanding rapidly across the globe and iFood is at the forefront of innovation and growth as the leading food delivery business in Latin America,” said Movile chief executive Fabricio Bloisi, in a statement. “With that in mind, we will continue to invest in the company to scale iFood’s technology platform and accelerate product development so they can fulfill more orders and also provide an even better experience for restaurants and consumers.”

The new capital infusion brings Movile’s total haul from investors to over $250 million… Almost as if Naspers were willing the company to market dominance through the steady infusion of heaps and heaps and heaps of cash.
The steady stream of capital is showing results. As of September 2017, the company had reached 6.2 million monthly orders and become the largest food delivery company in Latin America.
Movile’s chief executive, Bloisi, has always viewed food delivery as a gateway to other kinds of commercial transactions in the “online to offline” vein that seems critical to success in emerging markets that don’t have robust logistics or delivery systems in place.
While the company made its start in gaming and education through company subsidiaries like PlayKids, it’s the iFood business — supplemented by Apontador for online reviews of local business; Rapiddo, for delivery services; and Sympla, the ticketing on-demand platform — that show the breadth of Bloisi’s vision for his company.
“At Innova we are very excited to continue to support Movile’s talented team in its growth, helping accelerate the ifood and tickets platforms and investing in new businesses that can leverage the active user base that Movile has built. We believe Movile has many opportunities to continue to grow exponentially, including in logistics and financial services, among others” said Veronica Allende Serra, Founding Partner of Innova Capital Fund, in a statement.
With Movile, Naspers is taking one of its bigger bets. From its humble roots as a media company in South Africa in 1915, the company has grown into one of the largest tech investors in the world — thanks in part to a series of shrewd investments in China and Russia. The company’s portfolio includes Tencent, one of China’s technology powerhouses, and Mail.ru, the Russian tech giant.
Other companies in the Naspers portfolio include: Avito, Brainly, Codecademy, Delivery Hero, eMAG, Flipkart, ibibo, iFood, letgo, Media24, Movile, MultiChoice, OLX, PayU, Showmax, SimilarWeb, SinDelantal, Swiggy, Twiggle and Udemy.

Featured Image: Xsandra/Getty Images


Honda is putting the focus on artificial intelligence after it announced a partnership with SenseTime, a Chinese startup valued at over $1 billion, that will power its autonomous cars of the future.
SenseTime, which raised a $410 million funding round this past summer and counts Qualcomm among its investors, is particularly well known for its object recognition technology which has been used by both public and private entities in China. The startup has agreed to a five-year joint R&D project with Honda that will see its AI and deep learning smarts combined with Honda’s automotive focused-AI tech to develop solutions that the car-maker hopes will enable self-driving cars to operate safely in urban areas.
Honda’s own AI falls into ‘scene understanding,’ ‘risk prediction,’ and ‘action planning,’ all of which relates to gauging urban motoring scenarios and responding to them in the right way. It said earlier this year that it plans to introduce cars with level 4 automation by 2020.
The Japanese auto giant unveiled its new innovation lab in Tokyo earlier this year, which included an offshoot called R&D Center X that’s focused on robotics, energy and AI. Tech-wise, this year we’ve seen plenty of neat concepts ranging from an EV aimed that’s slated for production in 2019, to a mini car with ’emotional intelligence,’ and a riding assistant for motorbikes.
Honda has also inked partnerships with Google’s Waymo, Grab in Southeast Asia and Israel-based automotive hub DRIVE.
SenseTime is widely tipped to land a $227 million investment from Alibaba before the year is out. Adding a big name automotive player as a partner is sure to only make its business more attractive to other investments and collaborators.


Earlier this year, Syte.ai, which develops visual search technology for fashion brands, raised $8 million from investors including top Asian tech firms NHN, Line Corp. and Naver. Now it’s unveiling a new API that makes adding visual search accessible to more e-commerce sites.
Called Visual Search for All, the white-label feature can be integrated into retail websites or apps within 24 hours and lets shoppers upload photos saved on their phones, like screenshots from Instagram, to find similar products for sale. It is based on the same technology as Syte.ai’s search tools for large fashion brands and publishers, which shows shoppers relevant items when they hover a cursor over part of an image (some of Syte.ai’s clients include Marks & Spencer and Kohl’s).
Syte.ai co-founder and chief marketing officer Lihi Pinto Fryman says once it indexes a brand’s product feed, Visual Search for All can be added to a site’s search bar in less than a day by adding a line of HTML. Clients pay a monthly license fee based on the number of image-matches likely to be used.
In comparison, other visual search tools can take weeks or months to implement and train to work with a brand’s product feed, says Fryman, and are often unaffordable for Syte.ai’s target customers, including smaller retailers that sell to millennials and teenagers.
Facebook Messenger and Line users can try out Syte.ai’s technology by sending images to its chat bot, Syte Inspire.


Ford has put a lot of focus on China’s electric vehicle market — with a local joint venture expected to lead to 15 electric or hybrid models on sale in the country by 2025 — and today the automotive giant announced a tie-in with Alibaba to fulfill its ambitious goals.
The scope of alliance is fairly broad and vague at this point, but a large chunk of  the”strategic collaboration” appears to be based around developing a direct sales channel to reach consumers in China.
Alibaba is the country’s largest e-commerce firm that’s best known for its Taobao marketplace and T-Mall service for brands. The alliance could see Ford utilize T-Mall to sell cars to consumers — the company has sold items like cargo jets via Taobao before — but there could be room for collaboration within Alibaba’s ‘Next Retail’ strategy that unites online and offline commerce.
The Chinese giant recently invested in national hypermarket operator Sun Retail in a move that it hopes will increase the synergies between e-commerce and physical retailing, and automotive is one vertical where that mesh is more obviously beneficial. People like to touch, feel and drive cars before they buy them, but yet doing basic research and purchasing online is more productive than visiting multiple showrooms.
A source also indicated that Alibaba may consider a “vending machine” style approach to selling cars. We’ve seen such an approach before — like this compact 15-story operation in Singapore that looks like a child’s toy box and examples in Germany — and that could be one branch of Alibaba’s retail strategy in the future.

Autobahn Motors’ vending machine showroom in Singapore
Beyond sales, the companies said they will explore opportunities to work together on technology, including cloud computing for big data analysis, digital marketing services and using Alibaba’s AliOS operating system.
China’s state-owned media predicted than more than 800,000 green vehicles would be sold this year, up more than 50 percent on 2016, thanks in no small part to a government incentive that covers 26 different models. Data is scant, but that’s almost certain to make China the world’s largest market for electric vehicles. Already it has attracted Tesla, which is planning its own China-based factory, while VW is among the international firms that has invested in order to make its mark in the country.
“China is one of the world’s largest and most dynamic digital markets, thriving on innovation with customers’ online and offline experiences converging rapidly. Collaborating with leading technology players builds on our vision for smart vehicles in a smart world to reimagine and revolutionize consumers’ mobility experiences,” Jim Hackett, Ford President and CEO, said in a statement.
Executive chairman William C. Ford Jr. was even more direct in his assessment of the importance of China.
“When I think of where E.V.s are going, it’s clearly the case that China will lead the world in E.V. development,” he told the New York Times.
Alibaba announced its first internet car in partnership with Chinese firm SAIC last year — the vehicle runs AliOS — and it claims to be powering more than 400,000 vehicles across China’s roads today. This deal with Ford might not culminate in a Ford car running AliOS, but it does represent a first deal between Alibaba and an automaker from outside of China. That makes it a significant tie-in even the exact nature of the arrangement is rather frustratingly unclear at this point.

Featured Image: Scott Olson/Getty Images


Chattermill, a London-based startup that uses ‘deep learning’ to help companies make better sense of customer feedback, has raised £600,000 in seed funding. Backing comes from Entrepreneur First — Chattermill is an alumnus of the company builder — and Avonmore Developments, along with a number of angel investors, including Jeff Kelisky, CEO of Seedrs.
Founded in 2015 by friends Mikhail Dubov and Dmitry Isupov, Chattermill is one of a number of startups that are tackling the problem of how to sift through and respond to customer feedback and across multiple channels. With that data growing exponentially, the company is employing deep learning to help do the job in, arguably, a much more scalable and potentially more accurate way.
“We help companies understand and improve their customer experience: we give companies insight that helps them craft better products and services,” Dubov, Chattermill’s CEO, tells me. “Companies with best in class customer experience ultimately have more loyal customers and find it easier acquiring them in the first place. Customer feedback is the best data to understand customer experience and while most companies have a lot of customer feedback, few have the tools to extract insight from it”.
He says the startup’s solution is to apply the latest deep learning techniques to analyse customer feedback in a way that is tailored for each company. “In addition to this we provide an analytics dashboard and automated alerts that make it very easy to take action on the insight across the business,” he says.
Specifically, Chattermill collates all feedback channels in one place and then “builds a customised deep learning model to extract easily actionable insight”. It can then measure sentiment to see how customers are feeling about each part of the overall experience, from design of an app down to speed of delivery and attitude of customer care agents.
In terms of how it collects customer feedback data in the first place, Chattermill integrates many standard tools used for soliciting and monitoring customer feedback and sentiment, such as SurveyMonkey, Zendesk, TypeForm or Salesforce, in addition to aggregating feedback from Net Promoter Score surveys, reviews, support tickets and social media.
The ten-person Chattermill team is currently working with customers across sectors that include, fintech, e-commerce, travel and gaming. “We work with consumer businesses that have a large customer base across industries,” says Dubov. “Notable examples are Transferwise, HelloFresh and Just Eat. Within these companies we work with the product, customer service and customer experience teams”.


Update: After the negative reaction from Patreon creators, the company updated its blog post about the fee change with a more detailed explanation of how it will supposedly ease confusion over payments. Judging from the response on Twitter, however, many creators feel Patreon hasn’t adequately addressed how the changes will affect their patrons, who are, after all, the people pledging money.
Patreon announced a new service fee policy that it says will help creators keep more money, but many are worried because they believe it will instead discourage their patrons from pledging.
The crowdfunding platform for artists currently takes a fee of 5% (creators also pay fees charged by payment processors like Stripe or PayPal) from each pledge. That changes on December 18, when patrons will start paying 2.9% plus 35 cents for each individual pledge, according to Patreon’s product update page.
For patrons who back per-post creators, the 2.9% plus 35 cents service fee will be added to all paid posts. Creators don’t have the option to cover or remove service fees from their pledges.
Patreon says the reasoning behind its new policy is to let creators keep a larger cut of each pledge. “With this update, creators will now take home exactly 95% of each pledge with no additional fees,” the company explained on its update page. “In the past, a creator’s income on Patreon varied because of processing fees every month. They could lose anywhere from 7-15% of their earnings to these fees. This means creators actually took home a lower percentage of pledges than their patrons may have realized.”
It added that “Creators often take home a lower percentage of their Patreon income than patrons may realize. Standardizing our fees across the board provides consistent expectations and more money for creators on Patreon.”
Many Patreon creators, however, quickly criticized the change, arguing that it will turn away patrons, particularly people who prefer to pledge small amounts to multiple creators.
For example, comic artist Gibson Twist said on Twitter that he expects to lose many backers because the new fees will increase most of their current pledges by more than a third. Twist added that as a patron himself, his own charges will also climb significantly if he needs to add 35 cents every time he makes a pledge.

Some pretty troubling news from @Patreon about changes in how they charge Patrons. I’m going to lose a lot of my backers over this. Still looking into it, but I’m very unhappy about this.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

Still a little bewildered that it’s real, but they’re now going to add an additional 35 to the cost of every pledge, plus another 2.9%, which will increase most of my Patrons’ pledges by more than a third. I wouldn’t pay that, I wouldn’t expect anyone else to either.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

They’re trying to sell it to us as “You get a bigger % of the money!” but a bigger percentage of less money isn’t a selling point. Also, are we not supposed to notice the huge spike in how much Patreon takes of my supporters’ coin? Is this right?
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

They’re trying to sell it to us as “You get a bigger % of the money!” but a bigger percentage of less money isn’t a selling point. Also, are we not supposed to notice the huge spike in how much Patreon takes of my supporters’ coin? Is this right?
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

This is not to mention the extra that will be charged to Patrons supporting many artists, getting dinged 35+ cents each time. Someone supporting 20 people at a buck, that $20 jumps to over $27.50. As a Patron myself, I’ll see my charges increase by nearly 40%. That’s significant.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

Patreon’s FAQ on this change reads very “Isn’t it great? No down side here!” but this change is almost certainly going to lead to me shutting down my Patreon account. I’m not interested in gouging my audience in something I don’t believe benefits me or them at all.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

Meanwhile, just yesterday, they sent me an email talking about what a “mindblowing year” 2017 has been, so I’m not convinced they’re hurting for cash.
Please, @Patreon, don’t do this. This will hurt a lot of artists, and I am one.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 

Some quick math and the numbers are jarring. Right now, artists pocket 80-85ish% of what our Patrons pay. Under the new system, we’ll get roughly 70% of what most Patrons pay. They’re selling to us as “You get a higher % of the money!” but in truth, we’re getting a lot less.
— Gibson Twist (@GibsonTwist) December 6, 2017

 
Some patrons also said that the new service fee will incentivize people to make a large pledge to one creator instead of supporting several with smaller amounts because they don’t want their fees to add up, which hurts artists who depend on getting many $1 pledges.

The extra cost isn’t tiny if you pledge small amounts to many creators. Pledging $100 to 1 creator will now cost $103.25 which is reasonable. Pledging $1 each to 100 creators will now cost $138 which is not reasonable.
— James a.k.a TPRJones (@TPRJones) December 7, 2017

 

it has little to do with the actual fee and more to do with passing it on to the patron, because while creators “”make more”” this change doesn’t even consider the mentality behind pledging small amounts and why people do that at all
— radruler @ midwestern furry festival (@Radruler) December 7, 2017

 

Small shows like ours get support from listeners paying a few bucks a month from fans. Many creators believe this will shrink the number of shows people will be willing to support.
— Todd Faulkner (@ToddFaulkner) December 7, 2017

 
Patreon, which was founded in 2013 and has raised about $107 million in funding so far, says it has more than one million subscribers who pay an average of $12 per month to more than 50,000 creators. Its success prompted Kickstarter to retool Drip, its subscription service for independent musicians, to compete more directly with Patreon. Other rival crowdfunding platforms for creators include Flattr and Steady.
While creators can ask supporters for pledges on their own using PayPal, Stripe and other payment services, Patreon’s ease of use, thanks to tools like its API, and popularity helps many make an income (or at least not lose money) from their art. This is especially important for creators who rely on YouTube, but saw their revenue plunge this year as a result of changes to its advertising policies—(an event known as the “adpocalypse“). For them, Patreon’s new service fees represent a potential double whammy and are yet another reminder that the online platforms that help them make a livelihood can also very quickly take it away.
TechCrunch has contacted Patreon for comment.


B Capital, the investment firm from Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin backed by BCG, has stepped into India after it backed smart point-of-sale company Mswipe in its first deal in the country.
The U.S.-Asia fund is investing $10 million into Mumbai-based Mswipe alongside DSG Consumer Partners in what is an extension to a Series D round announced this summer. Originally pegged at $31 million, the addition extends the round to more than $40 million.
Mswipe was founded in 2011 and it has now raised a total of $65 million from investors.
The company’s mission is to widen the availability of financial services in India, but rather than going after newer tech like consumer wallets, Mswipe has stayed focused on the humble point-of-sale device.
The company makes POS devices that are more lightweight and affordable than traditional service providers, while it cuts out middlemen to offer its own customer services to reduce complication and cost. Mswipe founder and CEO Manish Patel told TechCrunch that his firm focuses on providing a reliable service that avoids the traditional (and somewhat unreliable) telephony network that others use. It initially targeted under-represented SMEs and mid-sized retailers but today it also caters to larger customers.
“We are so efficient that [our POS] works even on a basic 2G connection,” he explained. “Merchants prefer stable to fast, you need reliability.”
Patel said that Mswipe currently has POS devices with over 290,000 merchants across India, with 15,000-18,000 new signups each month. Those figures, he added, make it the fifth largest in the industry but he believes it can take fourth place over the next six months.
While the likes of Paytm, MobiKwik and Ezetap have accrued tens of millions of customers for mobile wallet solutions, Patel believes that India’s 900 million cards (mainly debit but also credit) are a more viable option for financial inclusion, but they are hugely underserved by a lack of acceptance at retailers.
“The number of POS terminals [in India] was pathetically low when we started out [at just 800,000] — it didn’t take a genius to figure out something was wrong and that it was ripe for disruption,” he explained.
Today, he argues that with just 2.5 million terminals across the country, more progress is needed.
“Even Turkey [with a population of 80 million] has more terminals than India,” Patel added. “Terminals are still where they were 15 years ago and it’s about time someone did something about them.”
While he appreciates the progress that the likes of Paytm have made, Patel is adamant that the absolute numbers aren’t moving the needle across India yet.
“We’ve watched with very curious interest with all the froth on mobile payments. In India, the primary store of money will always be a bank account. You have multiple means of accessing your account, but once money is in the digital wallet, if it has to move back into your bank account it has to ride [financial] rails and it will cost you,” he explained, adding that, for now firms like Paytm have covered that cost.
He also explained that, in his mind, fewer than 200 million of India’s smartphone users are “truly online” 24/7 which makes relying on an app for payments unrealistic for the majority of the country.
That said, Mswipe POS terminals do accept payment from digital wallets like Google Tez, Samsung Pay and UPI, the Indian government backed payment protocol. Beyond payments, Mswipe also offers inventory management and other basic business services in addition to SME financing options.
The deal sees Saverin join the Mswipe board.
B Capital has a total fund size of around $180 million and offices in California and Singapore. Its deal to date have included logistics startup Ninjavan in Southeast Asia, Singapore’s CXA insurance firm, healthtech companies SilverCloud Health, Evidation Health, and Bright.md.
Note: Article updated to correct that Mswipe is based in Mumbai not Bangalore


WorldRemit, a London-based startup with some 2 million users that offers a quick way for people to send money to each other with a focus on developing markets, has raised more funds to help it take on the likes of Western Union in the remittances market, estimated by the World Bank to be worth some $596 million globally this year, and ramp its user number to 10 million.
The company has picked up $40 million — a Series C round that sources tell us brings the company’s valuation to around $668 million (or ‘just under £500 million’ in the figure we were given in local currency by our sources).
The funding was led by a new, strategic investor: LeapFrog Investments, the firm founded in 2007 and backed by billions from the likes of Prudential, JP Morgan and the Omidyar Network specifically to make investments into financial and healthcare businesses improving services in emerging markets, specifically in regions like Africa and Asia. Previous investors Accel, TCV and an unnamed individual backer also participated.
This represents a decent leap for the startup, which was valued at $500 million when it last raised money — $45 million in February 2016.
Ismail Ahmed, who co-founded WorldRemit with Catherine Wines and is its CEO, said in an interview that the idea will be to use the funding in three key areas.
The first of these is to increase the number of countries where payments will be able to originate. Currently, the company lets people from 50 countries send money through to 148 countries, and Ahmed wants to bring complete parity to those figures, so that people can transfer money from any country to any country where WorldRemit operates. Specifically with this round, that functionality will get turned on in Africa.
“Half of our transactions today go to Africa, and those are mostly digital transactions going into to mobile money accounts in services like M-Pesa. This means every day we trade with all the assorted currencies that are in use in Africa,” he explained. “I think the next phase of our growth is to turn those ‘receive’ countries into ‘send’ countries. That’s the demand we’ve seen. In the past we didn’t want to do that because we didn’t want to transact in cash, but now because our users are making most digital transactions, we can.”
He points out that 90 percent of WorldRemit’s customers — 1 million users — are using smartphones for their transactions, and that money transfer services are a key driver of getting those smartphones in the first place (that other? messaging services, he said; more on that below).
That is a pretty impressive statistic in itself, considering how low down African countries generally have been in world rankings for internet and telephony access. Targeting these wider problems, in fact, is one reason that WorldRemit was first approached by LeapFrog.
“This investment is an opportunity to bring a global leader in digital remittances into the LeapFrog portfolio,” said Stewart Langdon, partner at LeapFrog Investments. “WorldRemit’s model is uniquely suited to scale and offers a best in class service that is vital to the livelihood of millions of consumers in LeapFrog’s core markets. The company also has a huge potential to expand globally – a combination that puts it at the heart of our profit with purpose philosophy. I’m delighted that a world-class fintech company like WorldRemit is choosing LeapFrog as its partner for growth in the emerging markets.”
The second area WorldRemit is hoping to expand is in Asia. Specifically, the company is planning to open a new office in the Philippines with 100 more employees, to help build out its business in that region
This is also notable. To date, WorldRemit to date has mainly grown organically, and that is what it plans to do here. But there is a big opportunity to expand WorldRemit’s footprint by way of acquisition.
There are a number of startups competing with the likes of Western Union and MoneyGram to provide lower-cost and faster remittance services globally, but interestingly, many of them have been building their services with relatively little overlap of the regions that they are targeting first. (Remitly, for example, has been focusing a lot on the business of sending money from the US to India, recently raising $115 million to double down on that opportunity.)
“So far we have seen consolidation in the world of traditional money transfers, where the three largest players are still consolidating some of the smaller players,” Ahmed said. “But as companies like us become more global and taking a regional focus, we may see some M&A too.”
The third area of focus is to keep beefing up its business in the US. Today, the country accounts for 14 percent of WorldRemit’s origination traffic by revenues, and the plan will be to boost this to 40 percent.
The medium is the message
Ahmed said that when it comes to digital money transfers, the company’s mainstay for doing business is its own mobile app, although it and others in the remittance market are still working on ways of expanding this.
Specifically, most transfers are made alongside longer text or voice conversations in messaging apps like WhatsApp, Messenger and WeChat, so there has been a longstanding ambition to integrate services like WorldRemit more seamlessly into those platforms.
But although Facebook has been building peer-to-peer transfer capabilities in a couple of its very biggest markets (the US and UK), one big hurdle for turning them on in developing markets has been local regulation, Ahmed said.
“There are some trials right now for how to use messaging apps to transfer money in the region, but one reason we have not seen more is regulations,” he said. “When we talk about sending money from Africa, it’s about getting a local license in a local office. WorldRemit has done that but there is a lot of complexity there for getting licenses, meeting money laundering regulations and so on.”
I asked, and the reason we haven’t simply seen more API-based implementations, where a company licensed locally provides the transfer within the messaging app, is also because of those requirements.
“At the minimum, most of the regulators require that the company that is licensed is the one that is visible to the customer, so that the customer knows clearly who is safeguarding the funds,” said Ahmed. “Some of the ‘powered by’ models are not acceptable to the more conservative regulators in those markets.”
It’s not just Facebook that faces this problem, he added. “Google, Amazon, Microsoft and Alipay,” area all companies that could grow their businesses in the region were they allowed to work with more companies that could provide money transfer services to mobile phones, which for many individuals and small businesses have become their functioning proxies for bank accounts and credit cards.
Indeed, direct money transfers for basic needs is just one application. We’ve heard that Facebook has been interesting in building this area also so that it can grow its advertising business in the region, since small businesses today have a hard time buying ads because they don’t have cards to pay for them.
“This is part of the problem we are aiming to address longer term,” Ahmed said. “The flows of funds every day that we are sending works out to a lot of hard currencies and billions of dollars in emerging economies,” he said. “It’s easier for us to enable those who want to pay someone else. This is the kind of area where would seamless cross border payments would be very useful, for those who want to provide payments and provide digital services.”

Featured Image: WorldRemit/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE


Bitcoin is flying sky high after crossing the $14,000 mark for the first time, but one projected aimed at helping mine coins is short of at least $60 million after it was hacked.
NiceHash, a marketplace that matches those with spare computing to power to miners wanting to create new coins, has confirmed that it has hit by attackers who snatched bitcoin. The company has paused operations for 24 hours while it figures out exactly how much was swiped and how it was taken. Coindesk reports that users are circulating a wallet from the company that contains 4,736.42 BTC, worth more than $60 million based on today’s price.
The company is recommending that its users change their passwords — both on NiceHash and other services — following the breach.
Recent security issues in the crypto space have centered around Ethereum rather than bitcoin. A vulnerability in Parity’s wallet found in November caused $150 million in ETH to be frozen, while another Parity issue led to 150,000 ETH (then worth around $30 million) being stolen in July.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


It was a big day for online identity management provider, Okta. 
After reporting better-than-expected third-quarter earnings, the company also made a slew of announcements.
Okta, which counts corporate clients like Nordstrom and government clients like the U.S. Department of Justice, said that it’s now going to let startups use its services for free. Young organizations with up to 25 employees will be able to use Okta Identity Cloud without charge for one year.
Okta is “trying to really capture and provide value to the next great companies out there,” CEO Todd McKinnon told TechCrunch. He likely hopes that they’ll become corporate clients as their business grows and they’re satisfied with the secure sign-on services.
Okta also announced that it’s moving its headquarters. The company signed a 10-year lease to move to 100 First Street in San Francisco.
On the earnings front, revenue came in for the quarter at $68.2 million. This surpassed analyst estimates of $62.84 million. Adjusted net losses per share were 19 cents, better than the negative 24 cents Wall Street predicted.
There are a lot of companies in the secure-sign-in space. When asked about startups like Duo or SailPoint, which recently went public, McKinnon said “they have one part of what we offer” and “we have a broad suite.”
He believes Okta’s real competitors are the incumbents like IBM, Oracle and Computer Associates. “We’re replacing that legacy,” McKinnon claims.
The company went public in April and priced its shares at $17. The stock closed Wednesday at $28.46. It went up 5 percent in initial after-hours trading.
!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script"),d=o[0],r=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=r+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var a=e.createElement("script");a.async=1,a.id=s,a.src=i,d.parentNode.insertBefore(a,d)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","//e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");

Featured Image: Okta


Qualcomm teased its new flagship smartphone chip at day one of its Summit in Maui, and, as expected, the company’s got a lot more to offer us on day two. The Snapdragon 845 is the latest premium processor, due out next year. And like its predecessor, the 835, you can expect the thing to be nearly ubiquitous on 2018’s flagship handsets — not to mention a few Windows PCs. 
As anticipated, new chip will sport the same 10 nm manufacturing process as its predecessor, but the company is altering its architecture some in order to bring even more of a focus to imaging. No surprise there, really — the entire industry has been headed in that direction, as smartphone makers work to differentiate themselves with improved photography through multiple cameras, while embracing next-generation AR and VR applications.

New here are the Spectra 280 ISP and Adreno 630 — new architectures designed to improve photography and video capture. That includes the ability to capture significantly more color information with HDR photos and improved playback on Ultra High-Def displays. Also on-board is SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) with simultaneous six-degree of freedom — that can be used for obstacle collision, pointing to Qualcomm’s increased focus on technologies like augmented and virtual reality. 
Artificial intelligence is, naturally, another big focus here. The San Diego chipmaker is promising some pretty big gains on that front — specifically a 3x performance boost. That means improved personal assistant performance and all sorts of other improvements to existing features. The company’s also added support for TensorFlow Lite and the new Open Neural Network Exchange frameworks, in addition to regular old TensorFlow and Caffe, freeing up developer choice on that front.

For security, there’s a devoted secure processing unit on-board, which should bring improvements to biometrics and encryption. Battery life is another key upgrade, with the new Snapdragon promising almost one-third power reduction for energy-hungry features like video capture, AR/VR and gaming. 
The new chip has already started shipping to manufacturers and is due out in devices early next year. That means there’s a pretty good chance we’re going to see quite a few devices announced in roughly a month from now at CES. Huawei has already announced its intentions to use the chip on an unnamed flagship, and if the 835 is any indication, most of the other major Android manufacturers will join them soon enough.


Mr. Robot’s email service of choice just expanded its support for a handful of popular email clients. ProtonMail just introduced a new tool, called ProtonMail Bridge, that could expand its relatively niche appeal to more mainstream users who aren’t yet comfortable with giving up their email client habits.
ProtonMail, built around the encryption standard known as PGP (Pretty Good Privacy), previously required users to use its own apps or webmail service. Now, users loyal to common mail clients Apple Mail, Thunderbird, Outlook or anything else that supports IMAP and SMTP can run ProtonMail Bridge in the background to enable a ProtonMail account to play nice with one of those newly supported clients.
The process maintains the core offerings of ProtonMail: end-to-end encryption, meaning that only a sender and receiver can view an email, and zero-access encryption, meaning that the email provider can’t see your emails even if it wanted to.
“The best part is that this does not require modifying your email client or making changes to your existing workflow,” the company writes in its announcement. “Use email like you have always used it, and the Bridge will automatically encrypt and decrypt messages in the background.”
ProtonMail notes that Bridge users will enjoy some added convenience, including the ability to do full body text searches and to manage multiple accounts. While ProtonMail is a useful if not perfect encrypted email client, the company reminds users, as always, that encrypted email won’t save you if anyone gains access to your device itself.

Featured Image: Stewart Bremner/Moment/Getty Images


Today, Sundance Film Festival announced its lineup for next month. Included yet again were the entrants for the festival’s New Frontiers program, which hosts VR content, and an unlikely film title made the list this year, Wolves in the Walls.
Virtual reality may not be the technology du jour in Silicon Valley as much as it was the past couple of years, but there are still plenty of milestones being traversed in the cinematic VR community, which continues to believe that VR’s dominance in future entertainment is a question of when not if.
Earlier this year, it was announced that Facebook’s Oculus Story Studio would be abruptly shutting down, the 50 employees on its staff would be let go and their main project, Wolves in the Walls, would be shuttered.
This was a major blow to many in the VR community who admired much of the pioneering work that the Emmy-award winning studio had built. The studio’s latest project, Dear Angelica, had been one of the most moving films in the medium that I’d seen, the product of a moving narrative and an artistic style that was only possible in VR.
All of this didn’t stop a core team of employees from Oculus Story Studio from continuing to pursue hopes that the project they’d put so much work into would eventually see the light of day. With support from Oculus, the team has spent the past several months holed up in a studio in San Francisco’s Mission neighborhood getting Wolves in the Walls ready for Sundance.
The film, directed by Pete Billington, is based on a Neil Gaiman story and follows a little girl discovering what’s hiding inside the walls of her room. You can check out a peek of the film’s design here.

Oculus Story Studio has always looked to do more than create beautiful stuff, the work they have done in VR has always seemed to be ahead of the curve and particularly apt at predicting trends that would disperse across VR creation. With Dear Angelica, the team built a pipeline that allowed visuals to be designed entirely inside VR; with Wolves in the Walls, the studio is taking a closer look at how VR film-making can interact with AI tech to bring characters and viewers into more close-knit relationships. They’re working with an immersive theater company to choreograph how they interact with the space, as well.
For​ ​the​ ​first​ ​time​ ​in​ ​a​ ​movie,​ ​the​ ​audience​ ​is​ ​cast​ ​as​ ​a​ ​character,​ ​and​ ​will​ ​be​ ​there​ ​to​ ​help​ ​Lucy​ ​overcome​ ​the obstacles​ ​in​ ​front​ ​of​ ​her. ​This​ ​is​ ​a​ ​VR​ ​fable​ ​about​ ​the​ ​nature​ ​of​ ​fear.​ ​It​ ​is​ ​also​ ​a​ ​story​ ​about​ ​family.​ ​The​ ​youngest members​ ​of​ ​our​ ​pack​ ​often​ ​see​ ​things​ ​the​ ​most​ ​clearly,​ ​but​ ​they​ ​are​  also​ ​the​ ​easiest​ ​to​ ​ignore.​ ​Lucy​ ​needs​ ​our​ ​help​ ​to convince​ ​her​ ​family​ ​that​ ​something​ ​is​ ​very​ ​wrong​ ​inside​ ​the​ ​house.
It’s still unclear what the future looks like for the ragtag group of incredibly talented creators at Oculus Story Studio without Oculus, but the group detailed that they’ll be sharing more soon. Wolves in the Walls premieres at Sundance later next month.


It’s been a bad few months for internet freedom in China (and really, a bad few decades, but who is counting?). The government brought into force a broad-ranging “cybersecurity law” earlier this year that empowers Beijing to take unilateral control over critical internet infrastructure, while also mandating that foreign companies keep all citizen data local inside China — preventing cloud services like Amazon Web Services from moving information between local and foreign data centers, for instance.
That’s not all, though. As Jon noted earlier today, China’s government has also asked Apple to remove hundreds of apps from the China-version App Store this year, including popular social messengers like Skype and VPNs that allow Chinese citizens to access information outside of the Great Firewall.
So it was with great irony that as China has been cutting itself off from the rest of the world’s internet, it hosted the fourth-annual World Internet Conference in Wuzhen this past week. And in an unannounced surprise, Apple and Google chief executives Tim Cook and Sundar Pichai showed up to take part in the “festivities.” Cook even delivered a keynote, and a bow to the audience that was met with a standing ovation.
The theme of the World Internet Conference might have been “Light of Internet,” but the theme of the conference really needed to be: “How far is too far?”
Chinese President Xi Jinping has repeatedly increased government controls over the internet throughout his administration, and with his ascension to “core leader” at this year’s 19th Party Congress, those controls are only expected to continue to tighten. Therefore, it’s not unusual for foreign tech execs these days to be making the pilgrimage to China to try to maintain their access to the market — or to get any access at all. Just a few weeks ago in October, Cook was in China again along with Mark Zuckerberg to attend the annual advisory board to Tsinghua University’s business school, which Cook joined in 2013.
Nearly every tech executive needs to confront the fact that China, whose market is second only to that of the United States, is completely isolating its internet industry from foreign competition. Google, Facebook and other tech giants remain entirely blocked. LinkedIn has faced serious setbacks in recent weeks despite some early success in venturing into the Chinese market with a professional social network and not the kind of messaging that theoretically worries the central government.
Apple seems to be the only top Silicon Valley company that has navigated the shifting tides, although it has remarkable leverage, given that its device manufacturing is heavily based in China and employs quite literally hundreds of thousands of people through its Chinese manufacturing partners.
To be fair to SV tech giants, the complexity of operating in China isn’t any simpler for domestic companies. The Chinese Communist Party has set its sites on companies like Alibaba and Tencent, proposing that large tech companies provide a board seat to the party, and also “donate” shareholder equity to the government.
That leads back to the question then: how far is too far? At Wuzhen this weekend, Alibaba founder Jack Ma was quoted by The Wall Street Journal saying that “When you determine to come, prepare for it. Follow the rules and laws and spend 10 years.” So what happens when the law requires that all source code be handed over to the government? That the government needs a board seat and “special management shares”?
Google may regret its decision back in 2010 to leave China after supposedly state-sponsored hackers attempted to break into several Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists. Pichai, Google’s chief executive, was not given a speaking slot at the Wuzhen conference this weekend, unlike Cook, although he did sit on a panel of tech executives. But ultimately, the decision may have saved the company from the quickly encroaching hand of the Chinese state. For so many other Valley tech companies, the line between internet freedom and tyranny is blurring rapidly. Deciding to forego the world’s second largest market is hardly an easy call, but may ultimately be the best business decision.

Featured Image: Thomas Depenbusch/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


After a Senate vote on Tuesday, Kirstjen Nielsen has been confirmed as John Kelly’s replacement to lead the Department of Homeland Security. The top position at the DHS has remained open since Kelly left to join the White House as chief of staff in late July. Nielsen, a close colleague of Kelly’s, previously served on the Homeland Security Council in the George W. Bush administration and developed domestic policy with the TSA.
As CyberScoop reported last month, Nielsen was intended for a role as the undersecretary of the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD). The NPPD’s stated goal is to “protect and enhance the resilience of the nation’s physical and cyber infrastructure” by specializing in cybersecurity threats the same way that an agency like FEMA specializes in disaster relief and preparedness.
While Nielsen reportedly “waffled,” ultimately not leaving her post as the DHS chief of staff at the time, the role would have effectively made her the head of cyber operations for the agency. Nielsen later followed Kelly to the White House to become his deputy chief of staff.
Given the ever-expanding nature of cyber threats, particularly those against U.S. critical infrastructure, Nielsen’s specialization in cybersecurity could prove timely. We’ll be following Nielsen as she takes on the new role and shapes policy at DHS moving forward.
“I will do my utmost to ensure that the Department meets the threats of today and tomorrow, and to ensure our frontline personnel have the tools and resources to accomplish their vital missions,” Nielsen said of her confirmation.
“I look forward to continuing this Administration’s work to raise the standards for the security of our homeland in all areas – including securing our borders, protecting Americans from terrorist threats, and securing our cyber networks.”

Featured Image: Tom Williams/Getty Images


You can now find Leesa mattresses, one of the many mattress-in-a-box startups, at Pottery Barn online.
Pottery Barn parent company Williams-Sonoma announced the partnership today, saying in a press release, “Starting today, Pottery Barn customers can purchase Leesa’s American-made and expertly designed mattresses online at PotteryBarn.com/Leesa, marking Leesa’s growing partnership with Williams-Sonoma, Inc.”
The news comes on the heels of a partnership between Leesa and the Williams-Sonoma-owned West Elm, which unseated a previous partnership the furnishings store had with Casper, starting in September of this year.
Leesa and Pottery Barn will also be giving back to the community under the new partnership — one mattress will be donated to San Francisco’s Episcopal Community Services’ housing program for every 10 sold through Pottery Barn through December. For its part, Pottery Barn will donate its branded sheet sets to go along with the mattresses.


Lyft is beginning its self-driving car pilot with self-driving car company nuTonomy in Boston as it looks to ramp up its self-driving efforts, and is now matching its riders with self-driving vehicles in parts of Boston, nuTonomy said today.
Lyft announced its partnership with nuTonomy in June this year, indicating that the pilots would begin in the coming months. It looks like the project is going to get out the door by the end of the year, which is a good sign for the company looking to capitalize on not only a pile of goodwill in the ridesharing industry but also getting the tech up and rolling. While it’s limited to a select part of Boston, getting those tests up and running is critical to get enough data to broaden the program.
If you live in a metro area like San Francisco, you’ve probably become accustomed to seeing cars with whirling cameras on top of them rolling through the city. All this is an effort to collect additional data on the city and how traffic behaves in it — information that’s critical to create a self-driving car network that is both effective and safe. Perception is nearly as important as reality as companies like Uber and Lyft look to make self-driving cars part of the norm.

The company said some Boston passengers in the Seaport area will be matched with self-driving vehicles when they request rides through Lyft. It will give some select consumers access to the sort of future-is-here experience of getting in a self-driving car for two companies that seem to be relatively unknown in a market populated by Waymo and Uber, which are both looking to create a massive network of self-driving cars.
And to be sure, there’s an enormous amount of money that continues to flow into both autonomous driving and ridesharing. Delphi purchased nuTonomy for $400 million in October this year, and Lyft appears to continue to tack on additional financing with another $500 million this month. For Lyft, it’s an opportunity to tap a company that is looking to specialize in the technology, and it gives companies like nuTonomy access to an existing network immediately.




Sonos and Ikea just announced a new collaboration to “create future home sound experiences”.
The companies say they want to make it easier to play music anywhere in the home – which makes sense, since Sonos’ main benefit is how easy their software makes it to set up and manage a system of speakers throughout your home.
“Together with Sonos we want to democratize music and sound in the home, and we want to create products designed for how people listen together at home. By teaming up with Sonos we want to combine IKEA home furnishing knowledge with Sonos’ expertise within great home sound.” explained Björn Block, Business Leader, IKEA Home Smart at IKEA of Sweden.
In typical corporate fashion there’s no concrete details about what specific types of products the two will collaborate on. And since the products won’t launch until 2019, it may be a while before we know what exactly will result from the collaboration. But if the duo can figure out how to build good-quality speakers into Ikea furniture that can be controlled by Sonos’ software, count me in.
The collaboration is a little unexpected, since Sonos is considered a premium brand and Ikea is budget home furnishing Plus Sonos is very limited in their product line – they sell exactly 9 products, meaning even a small collaboration with Ikea could potentially double the amount of products they make.
Ikea sees this endeavor as the third step for their Home Smart division. They launched wireless charging in some of their furniture in 2015, smart lighting products in 2016 and now have decided to tackle music.


The Duke of York will be at St. James’s Palace today for #pitchatpalace Global.
Pitch@Palace Global brings together entrepreneurs from 2017 Pitch@Palace events that took place in Africa, China, Singapore, Australia, United Arab Emirates and Mexico.
Watch the live stream above starting at 5:30 p.m. GMT/9 a.m. PT.


The spreadsheet gurus in your organization know how to use pivot tables to pull meaningful insight out of a morass of numbers. It has been what separated those folks from the rest of us, but Google is out to democratize the pivot table in the latest version of Google Sheets announced today.
Google is achieving this by adding some artificial intelligence under the hood. The new features build on the Explore feature the company added last year. The idea here is to begin bringing automation to bear on the data pile to help surface meaningful insights.
Today’s feature add machine learning to the pivot tables to achieve a couple of major breakthroughs. For starters, instead of manually creating a pivot table to bring order to your data set, Google Sheets can suggest a pivot table based on the data you have in Google Sheets for you automatically. No more begging at the guru’s door for the spreadsheet mortals among us. This puts them within reach of just about anyone.
Gif: Google
There’s also a natural language querying interface in the Explore pane, so you can ask questions in plain English (or your language of choice eventually; it currently only supports English) and the applications can find the data in the pivot table for you. You no longer have to go hunting for the data. You  can ask a questions, and get an answer (assuming it’s there to be found, of course).
For those you who are old school and want to create your pivot tables from scratch, Google has some love for you too. It uses the same intelligence it provides for mere mortals to create pivot tables to make suggestions to help you too.
It’s not all about intelligence though, you know. You want your pivot table interface to look good too and Google has updated the Pivot Table UI including customizable headings, rows and columns.
Google isn’t limiting the intelligence to pivot tables either. It’s trying to add it across the entire spreadsheet experience, so you if you are entering data, it could pop up suggestions about what formula you might want to use for a given kind of information. If this works well, it could be quite helpful, but if it doesn’t, it could get annoying.
All of this and more will be rolling out over the coming months, according to Google.

Featured Image: Jon Russell/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)


Brave, the blockchain-based browser initiative that raised $35 million in an ICO earlier this year, is making its first major move to build an ecosystem that rewards publishers in a new kind of way.
One of the selling points of Brave is that it uses its token (BAT, Basic Attention Token) to disrupt the current financial norms of online publishing. The company wants to reward users for browsing the web, while also helping to make advertising less intrusive and more relevant. In another important focus, it wants to use BAT to let readers reward content makers whose websites they visit.
That’s where its new push this week is focused on. Brave is giving its users a total of 300,000 BAT tokens — worth around $60,000 — over the next 30 days. Users typically earn tokens by using Brave, but this promotion will put additional credit in there, which can then be given directly to publishers or YouTube channel operators.
That’s a fairly major move given that Brave claims to have one million monthly users and, on the publisher side, over 1,100 websites and 600 YouTube channels as content partners. YouTube was added to the platform last month.

A notification offering the token push
Users will get a maximum of $5 in BAT over the next 30 days — or until the token allocated is reached — which will be added to their Brave payment wallet. That wallet can be used to ‘tip’ websites that they visit based on time spent on the site.
The default, for example, allocates the total tip jar based on the percentage of time that a Brave user has spent on Brave-verified websites and YouTube channels. It can be overridden, however, to allow a user to tip whatever they like to whichever website they like.

Brave Payments’ default distributes a users’ wallet based on time spent on Brave-verified websites
In effect, Brave is boosting the wallets of its users with this offer giving them greater potential to tip their favorite content creators, who can convert the BAT into fiat currency.
“It is one of many steps toward dealing users back in for a fair deal, and dealing out the toxic middle players,” Brave CEO Brendan Eich, who was formerly in charge of Mozilla, told TechCrunch in a statement.
“We are moving from good-will contributions to user grants to private ads that share the bulk of the gross ad revenue with the user, without any targeting or tracking by remote parties (including Brave),” he added.
Unlike many other ICO projects, Brave has a product in the market in the form of its browser. The full scope of the project will take some time to roll out, however, with payment options and YouTube added over the last two months, for example. But it is certainly at a more advanced stage than the majority of projects that have raised funding via a token sale.
Prior to its ICO, Brave had raised $6 million in traditional venture capital funding.


As part of its move away from consumer gear toward professional cinema hardware, Lytro has killed off the site that once hosted its “living pictures,” still photos taken with its cameras that could be refocused after the fact. This will turn a handful of those pictures, where they had been embedded on the web over the past few years, into empty frames. If you want to see light field images now, you’ll need to see them in the desktop app.
In 2012, when I reviewed the original Lytro camera, I wrote:
“The Lytro software is limited to browsing your photos and grouping them into ‘stories,’ and you can upload them directly to (and only to) Lytro, which will serve them for… eternity, you hope. Not much of a choice there.”
As I half expected would be the case at the time, eternity turned out to be on the short side — until it became inconvenient for the company to host it. Of course, it’s unlikely there were many active users of the service now; Lytro left the consumer camera market two years ago when there proved to be little demand for its technically amazing but ultimately gimmicky cameras.
Non-living picture
One never should trust services that offer so little flexibility in how you access and serve your own data, but Lytro’s tech was unique in that it essentially required a special plug-in to view properly. These plug-ins you would embed wherever you wanted to share a “living picture,” a rather clumsy solution that contributed to the usability problems endemic to the whole Lytro proposition.
The living picture format is done forever unless the company releases some way to self-host them, but it seems unlikely. Any remaining users will have to export to ordinary stills or movie files in the desktop app.
I’m happy to see Lytro evolving and applying its very cool tech to a new market, but the bumpy road it has traveled is littered with lessons for young hardware startups.


If there’s any sort of trend in robotics this year it’s soft hands. Robots with soft pincers are quite useful in picking up – and not breaking – objects and now you can enjoy a soft-handed robot at home.
The robot is called Gomer and it’s available now on Indiegogo. The little robot had an expressive face and a big claw on top. You can play games with Gomer – my kids liked keep-away in which the robot steals a box and then tries to run away from you – or you can train him to pick up objects or explore his surroundings.
I had an early version of Gomer and our techie family found him very cute. At $229 for early birds you’re not paying much for a smart wheeled robot and he has a nice little SDK for programming. They’ve also designed him to be able to play with your pets, as evidenced by the short video of Gomer tormenting a grey cat.
Dr. Jonathan Liu created Gomer as part of his research into soft robotics. His co-founder, Eric Zhao, worked in robotics and embedded systems.
“For the first time, soft robotics is not exclusive to factories and other industry specific products, but are made consumer friendly and for the masses,”said Liu. “Gomer is easy to use for anyone, but also has an open API for developers who want to customize Gomer. In addition, Gomer’s AI recognizes facial expressions and can express its own based on what he sees.”

“When the Gomer team finished graduate school, we had a clear idea of what we wanted to do with our research results: a robot that combined the helpfulness and attitude of Dobby with the playfulness of Baymax. We invented Gomer to bring this dream into reality, and to bring to the world a new being with the liveliness and distinctiveness of our favorite animated characters,” he said.


HQ Trivia — the twice-a-day live streamed trivia game built by the founders of Vine — continues to be a big thing. Recent games have had upwards of 200,000 players per session, each hoping to go home with the cash prize (or, at least, a share of it) for answering every question right.
And yet… it’s iOS only. Type “HQ Trivia” into Google, and “HQ Trivia android” is the very first auto-suggest… so, clearly, plenty of people are itching for it to go cross-platform.
Well, it’s coming.
HQ Trivia tweeted out the following — it doesn’t get too specific about the launch date, but the “stocking stuffer” bit suggests they’re aiming for this month:


Hey world, we hear you also have Android phones? HQ has a nice little stocking stuffer coming your way… pic.twitter.com/RwY6Qpkk9e
— HQ Trivia (@hqtrivia) December 5, 2017



Adding Android to the mix introduces a few new challenges beyond just the porting process itself. As the player count has ticked upward, the last few games have had pretty obvious moments of lag/buffering — a pretty stressful thing to see when you’re up against the clock. Meanwhile, more players means more potential winners to split the pot (each game has a prize of at least $1000, but that’s split amongst all winners). No one wants to make it all the way to the end only to split a $1,000 pot 10,000 ways.


Firefox’s default search engine has become the subject of a hotly contested legal battle, a few weeks after Mozilla announced it would be moving from Yahoo to Google. Yahoo’s new parent Oath filed a complaint against Mozilla in a California court on December 1, alleging a breach of contract. Now Mozilla has filed a counter complaint, stating that the switch back was in line with a deal struck between the two companies.  
Sounds like a small thing, sure, but we’re talking hundreds of millions of dollars here. Back in 2014, Yahoo struck a deal that would make its search engine the default for Mozilla’s popular, if struggling, browser, to the tune of $375 million a year. 
Details of the deal were only made public last year, as CEO Marissa Mayer’s time at the company came under the microscope while it prepared to sell itself to Verizon. For its many faults, the Verizon deal went through, of course, forming Oath in the process (the Yahoo/AOL hybrid under which TechCrunch resides). Along with it, Verizon inherited an annual payment of $375 million through 2019. 
Not a bad deal for Mozilla, especially when one considers this little gem: Yahoo (or whoever owns Yahoo) is obligated to continue payments, even if Mozilla were to, say, drop the search engine as its default. Mozilla was given a contractual right to terminate the agreement, if Yahoo was found unacceptable for some reason. 
That precise thing occurred just a few weeks back, as the company launched its new Quantum browser, switching back to Google in the process. The latest version of Firefox has been warmly regarded by many as a return to form for a company that had previously been lost in the woods, rapidly losing marketshare to Chrome in the process. Naturally, Oath/Yahoo want a piece of that action.
In yesterday’s counter-complaint, Mozilla explains that it took another long look at the deal post-Verizon acquisition and was no longer in love with its choice of Yahoo as the default engine. 
“Immediately following Yahoo’s acquisition, we undertook a lengthy, multi-month process to seek assurances from Yahoo and its acquirers with respect to those factors,” the company explained in a blog post yesterday. “When it became clear that continuing to use Yahoo as our default search provider would have a negative impact on all of the above, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the agreement and entered into an agreement with another provider.”
Oath has not yet issued an official response to Mozilla’s official response. 

Featured Image: Benjamin Kerensa/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


ClassPass is today introducing a new layer to its business with ClassPass Live.
Taking a hint from Peloton, ClassPass is now letting users work out at home through live-streamed classes. The company has purchased a studio in Industry City, along with a production team, so that folks can enjoy all the benefits of heart-rate training without ever leaving their house.
ClassPass has also hired their own instructors to develop classes that are proprietary to ClassPass, rather than licensing out existing workouts and simply streaming them live.
ClassPass CEO Fritz Lanman had this to say in the release:
At ClassPass we’re flexing our technical capabilities to push the future of fitness, especially as it relates to interactive, immersive experiences – nowhere is that more evident than with ClassPass Live. We’ve leveraged our unparalleled data assets and reviews to create one-of-a-kind, live programming anchored in heart rate training that’s unlike anything else on the market. By expanding into an at-home digital product, we’re able to offer existing members more value and flexibility in how and when they work out while simultaneously bringing studio fitness inspired workouts to more people nationwide.
Lanman hinted at this type of move in an interview at Disrupt SF in September.
By vertically integrating workouts, ClassPass can side-step the cost of existing classes and boutiques with their own product. At the same time, ClassPass can expand to markets almost instantly without having to do the footwork on the ground to secure gyms and fitness studios.
Of course, ClassPass Live doesn’t change anything about the core ClassPass offering, and in fact, it will only cost $10/month for existing ClassPass users. The standalone ClassPass live subscription costs $15/month.
ClassPass Live will be available in the beginning of 2018.

Featured Image: ClassPass


Inflect, a startup that wants to make it easier for businesses to buy their own internet infrastructure, today announced that it has raised a $3 million seed funding round. The service, which is still in preview, provides business with the necessary data to make their purchasing decisions when they go out and look for their own data center space, networking services and exchange providers.
Investors in this round include the likes of Greenpoint Technologies’ Jon Buccola Sr, Weebly CTO Chris Fanini, Server Central CEO Jordan Lowe, Global Communications Network CEO Chris Palermo and — somewhat surprisingly — Cruise Automation CTO Kyle Vogt (who was also Twitch’s former CEO).
“We’re fortunate to have investors who understand both the buy and sell sides of our industry,” said Inflect co-founder and CEO Mike Nguyen in a canned statement. “They understand how challenging it is to buy colocation, managed and network services. As industry insiders, they’ve all wasted time and money due to lack of access to accurate data and the right service provider contacts needed to source the right solutions.”
Inflect itself remains in preview, but the company says that it now includes verified data from over 40 service providers and 4,000 data centers around the world. The company itself estimates that this covers about 80 percent of the globally available public infrastructure.
It’s worth noting that this kind of data is typically very hard to get — and most companies never had an incentive to offer an API to allow others to aggregate their data (Cruise Automation’s Kyle Vogt describes the industry as “infuriatingly opaque“). Data and telco services have traditionally been bought manually, but Inflect, which was founded by a team of infrastructure veterans, aims to change this. For now, it’s mostly aggregating this data, but over time, it will surely try to allow its users to buy services right from its catalog, too.

Featured Image: Dean Mouhtaropoulos/Getty Images


CrossCut Ventures, a Los Angeles-based seed investment firm has just closed its fourth (and largest) fund with $125 million in new cash.
It’s been a long road for the firm’s three co-founders, who have been investing in Los Angeles since 1997. In that time they’ve seen the city’s technology scene evolve in fits and starts, but now, with companies like Snap, Dollar Shave Club and Oculus bringing billions of dollars down from Silicon Valley, a wave of investor interest has followed — and with their new fund they stand to reap the benefits.
“We’ve been looking for that since 2008,” which is when the firm launched its first institutional investment vehicle, says Brian Garrett, a co-founder and managing director at CrossCut. “we are now in a place where those tentpole companies, like Snap, and Oculus, and Dollar Shave Club… we can build those companies here.”
Indeed, the seed stage investor has already had success with its previous investment vehicles, which have put $50 million in capital to work behind 70 companies that have raised $1.3 billion in follow-on funding. And 66% of those investments were made in companies based in Los Angeles.
“Los Angeles is capturing the attention of institutional LPs, which is leading to the virtuous cycle of innovation. Tech  companies have hired thousands of people and brought a ton of talent down here and those people will go off and start their own businesses,” Garrett says.
Indeed, CrossCut had set out to raise only $100 million, but there was so much interest from limited partners — the funds that back venture firms — that the venture firm hit its hard cap for fundraising at $125 million.
The firm has certainly come a long way from the $5 million it raised for its first vehicle in the dog days of 2008 as the global financial crisis was taking its toll on economies around the world.
The entire CrossCut Ventures team: (from right) associate Sarah Moret; Clinton Foy, managing director; Brett Brewer, co-founder and managing director; Brian Garrett, co-founder and managing director; Rick Smith, co-founder and managing director; Michael Tam, associate
 
From that small, first fund, things grew slowly and steadily for the partners at CrossCut, Garrett said. The firm’s second fund, raised in mid-2012, was a modest $16 million, and it raised a significantly larger fund in 2014 as the Los Angeles market as it exists now was beginning to take shape.
The increasing investment pools in some senses mirror the pace of acceleration of the Los Angeles ecosystem, but in those early days, the CrossCut founder said things were not necessarily that rosy.
“Here’s the story,” says Garrett. “[CrossCut co-founder] Rick Smith and I left cushy venture jobs to start Crosscut… I had no savings and bought a new house in the Pallisades with a big mortgage.” Then the bottom fell out of the economy.
“There wasn’t a fee stream coming off the fund,” Garrett said. “I was consulting with anyone who would help me around strategy and business development… and got pulled in with a public company turnaround… a lot of what we were trying to do was replicate venture models in Brazil.”
The company was called Que Pasa and Garrett helped it raise an $11 million PIPE. That deal, ultimately led to an acquisition.
Meanwhile, another CrossCut co-founder, Brett Brewer had gone to a company in Kansas City called AdKnowledge. While still working with CrossCut, Brewer helped AdKnowledge raise $40 million from TCV and scaled the business to $300 million in revenue, Garrett told me.
“We were the largest seed fund in LA at the time at $5 million we were running this thing out of coffee beans on nights and weekends,” Garrett said.
In fact, the firm’s latest addition as partner, Clinton Foy, actually began at CrossCut as an unpaid venture partner back in 2014. “We brought him in as a partner ahead of fund three not even sure we were going to raise fund three. Foy has brought eSports, gaming, and mobile streaming experience to the partnership — and has already scored a pretty big win as the co-founder of the Immortals e-sports team.

The first fund has now returned 4 times its money from 18 investments — 11 of which netted positive returns. And the firm’s second fund is one-third returned with a paper valuation at nearly 5 times its money, given the fair market value write ups of the deals in the portfolio, Garrett said.
There are currently 32 companies in the portfolio and 12 of those investments were made in the last year.
Typical check size for the new CrossCut fund will be potentially as much as half of a $2.5 million to $3.5 million dollar round, but the firm doesn’t want to stray too far from traditional early stage seed investing, according to Garrett. However, at nearly two times larger than any other seed fund in town, the firm has a bit more dry powder.
As with previous vehicles, the fund will primarily look to invest in Los Angeles and Southern California, but it will look elsewhere too — as long as the potential investment has some need to tap the Los Angeles market, the firm is interested in taking a look.
Los Angeles, could, however, occupy a more central place in the investment thesis given the activity from startups that exists here.
Indeed, the appearance of new investment firms coming in at later rounds have made the city’s venture scene more robust, and brought a new attention to the companies coming out of LA.
Investors like Mark Suster at Upfront Ventures have been beating the drum for Los Angeles as an epicenter for technology investment for a number of years. Through the Upfront Summit, which his firm launched a few years ago, Los Angeles investors and entrepreneurs have had a marquee showcase  to pitch all of the things that Los Angeles can offer to a tech company — and the opportunity that exists for investors, Garrett said.
But Upfront, which has been in Los Angeles since 1996, and other investment firms like Greycroft Partners, which established themselves in Los Angeles more recently (and, in the case of Greycroft, have offices in other geographies from which to commit capital) have managed to provide the later stage capital that was the oxygen the local ecosystem needed.
For Garrett, the presence of a broader investment base is great for a firm like his, which need later stage investors to fund their portfolio companies past a Series A round (which is the time that CrossCut will tap out to let other investors lead). 
“What happened is that the ecosystem believed that there were next generation businesses to be built,” said Garrett. “For us it was Ophir [Tanz] at GumGum and Jason [Nazar] at DocStoc and David Lee.”
That was around 2008 to 2011, right before Upfront Ventures began to really publicize Los Angeles as the hot new place to go for tech startups, according to Garrett. “I will fully then say that Mark Suster created a lot of awareness and a megaphone and a spotlight that got shone and we have been a great beneficiary of his outward efforts,” he said.
These days, the firm’s investment interests are as diverse as the Los Angeles ecosystem it supports running the gamut from artificial intelligence, to blockchain technologies, to gaming and eSports. The firm has also backed companies in automation, “big data”, digital marketplaces, and software as a service.
“I was CrossCut’s very first investment as they formed the fund back in 2008.  It’s been amazing to watch their success and growth.  They have quietly and humbly built one of the best reputations in VC by working tirelessly on behalf of their portfolio companies.” says Jason Nazar, founder of DocStoc (sold to Intuit) and now a co-founder of Comparably.  “They deserve a lot of credit for catalyzing this ecosystem and were the first to recognize the opportunity and build a fund and brand around it.”
At this point, for CrossCut and Los Angeles, the important thing is the solid foundation on which new startups are being built. “It’s a perfect storm of a lot of factors,” said Garrett, but the Los Angeles tech scene now has grown and “contributes to this idea that tis will not be a hyped and busted ecosystem.”
 
Companies like Tesla and SpaceX have reinvigorated Los Angeles manufacturing, aerospace, and automotive industries, while young data scientists from the University of Southern California are doing amazing work around big data, Garrett said.
“It’s a ten year story arc, right now there’s no branded money down here that is being built to catalyze innovation that has the ability to build a viable standalone investment firm in Southern California.” That’s an opportunity for a firm like CrossCut, with its new capitalization, to stake a pretty large claim for itself in a tech ecosystem that is still developing.
 
 


A bunch of new Pokémon are coming to Pokèmon Go this week – but that’s not the only big change on the way.
Pokémon Go will soon be aware of the real world weather around you, with a number of things in the game adapting accordingly.
I spoke to Niantic’s Archit Bhargava and Matt Slemon about the new system, which they refer to as “dynamic weather”.
Here’s some of what they shared:


 Most notably, weather will affect spawns . If it’s raining outside, for example, you’ll probably see more water Pokémon. If it’s snowing, you might see Snorunts running around.
Itll impact spawns of Pokémon from the previous generations too – not just the new Gen III stuff.
Pokémon brought out by weather  will start out stronger – that is, they’ll start with higher CP than standard spawns. (Their max CP will be the same, though – it’s just a little headstart)
The map will change to reflect the current weather; it won’t be blue skies and green fields all the time, anymore.
Pokémon brought out by weather will also give you a bit  more stardust than usual

 Weather will affect gym combat . When it’s raining, water Pokémon will get a stat boost while fire Pokémon are weakened. If there’s snow, ice Pokémon are buffed. That holds true for both attacking and defending Pokémon – so if you’re trying to hold down a gym and know it’s about to rain all night, for example, you might lean toward using a water ‘Mon.

As far as I can tell, there are at least five different types of weather in the mix:


Clear: Grass, ground, and fire Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

Foggy: Dark and ghost Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

Rainy: Water, electric, and bug Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

Snowy: Ice and steel Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

Windy: Dragon, flying, and psychic Pokémon will be stronger and appear more

The timing of the new weather system isn’t random: the incoming Gen III Pokémon first showed up in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire… which, as it just so happens, were also the first games in the series to feature changing weather in the in-game overworld.
And for all of us in the Bay Area finding themselves thinking about the closest snow being a few hundred miles away: it shouldn’t be an issue. Slemon tells me that Pokémon will spawn outside of their preferred weather, they’ll just be much less common.
As a funny side note: when Pokémon Go first launched, there was all sorts of folklore about what caused certain things to spawn. Driven by anecdotal evidence, folks were convinced that more ghost Pokémon spawned near graveyards (nope), or that Snorlax liked being around sweet shops (nope). There were all sorts of theories around weather – some players swore that more Dratini spawned when it was raining. Now that might actually hold true.
Beyond being a neat mechanic for an AR game, it’s a clever way for Niantic to chip away at a problem: the colder it gets, generally, the fewer people go outside and play. Now that PoGo is weather-aware, they’re able to flip the problem on its head and incentivize playing when the weather looks bleak.


PerceptIn’s been operating mostly behind the scenes since launching in March of last year. Even so, the company has managed to raise a decent chunk of change in its mission of helping improve robotic vision. The startup’s raised a total of $11 million in all, including a seed round of ~$2 million last year and an $8 million Series A in 2017.
Samsung Ventures took interest in the company’s hardware/software solution for its own products as well, but failed to make it in time for the Series A-1, adding an additional $1 million in funding. It’s no guarantee at this early stage, but it could well mean that PerceptIn’s tech could one day make it into some piece of Samsung-designed robotic.
After all, the hardware giant does make its own robotic vacuums under the Powerbot line — and that happens to be one of the primary applications for PerceptIn’s new Ironsides vision system, which brings something akin to a plug-and-play combination hardware and software package for robotics. With vacuums being far and away the leader in consumer robotics, it’s a logical first step for the company.
“Our estimate had sales at around 10 million worldwide shipped,” PerceptIn CEO Zhe Zhang told TechCrunch, explaining why it’s going after vacuums. “It can use depth information to avoid very challenging obstacles like dog poop, cables and shoes. They’re very difficult for today’s robots to see and smartly navigate their way around.”
Zhang won’t disclose the company’s largest robotics client, but explains that it is working to integrate its vision system into a hardware client’s consumer robot set to ship some time next year. Beyond that, he adds, it’s been working with more than 100 university-based companies, along with another large consumer hardware maker. 
“Huawei is one of our first companies,” he explains. “We’ve been working with them for almost two years. At this point we don’t have an announcement, but we’ll have something official next year.”
The Ironsides system runs $399 for developers and could ultimately cut down significantly on R&D for home robotics companies that have yet to crack the code of computer vision. The company is also hoping to scale the system up for enterprise robotics and self-driving cars in the future.


Good news, Pokèmon Go fans: Gen III Pokemon are landing this week
Or, I should say, more Gen III Pokémon are landing this week. Niantic tells me that at least 50 new Pokèmon will be added to the game before the week is over, adding to the handful of Gen III monsters that showed up just before Halloween.
“But wait, Greg!” you might say, shaking your Pokédex at the sky. “Gen III is supposed to add something like 130 new Pokèmon! Where are the rest?!”
Niantic isn’t dropping everything at once this time around – they’ll be rolling them out over time, instead. I’m told they’re currently planning on having future Gen III Pokèmon released in themed groups – more Gen III Fire Pokèmon one week, Gen III grass Pokèmon another, etc.
The choice to stagger the release schedule within a generation like this will probably bum out anyone itching to catch’em all ASAP – but it makes some sense. Niantic only has so many generations to work with within the existing Pokèmon universe – and once players catch most of what a generation has to offer, they start clamoring for more. By splitting things up, they’re able to keep interest levels a bit more consistent over time.
Gen III is otherwise known as the “Hoenn” generation, and is comprised of Pokèmon that first appeared in Pokèmon Ruby and Sapphire back in 2002.
Niantic’s Archit Bhargava also confirmed to me that they’ll be hosting an in-game holiday event this month. He didn’t say much about what to expect, but did note that they’re aiming to start it up sometime around December 21st.
Meanwhile, the company also announced that weather – as in the real world weather outside – will impact the game. More details on that here.


Tim Cook said six months ago Amazon Prime Video was coming to Apple TV sometime before the end of the year. And here it is: the long-awaited app is finally available on Apple TV and the iOS flavor was updated to support the iPhone X.
The native tvOS versions is compatible with Apple TV 3rd generation devices or later. If the app isn’t visible yet, try searching for Amazon Prime Video on the Apple TV and it should pop-up.
The release of the Apple TV app could signal Apple TV’s return to Amazon, as well. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos said previously that the retailer would not sell the streaming device until it was compatible with Prime services.
“We want our player, our Prime Video player, to be on the device, and we want it to be on the device with acceptable business terms,” said Bezos at Code Conference 2016. “And if you can’t, then we don’t want to sell it to our customers, because they’re going to be buying it thinking they can watch Prime Video and then they’re going to be disappointed. And they’re going to return it.”
The Amazon Prime Video app was the lone missing streaming service from the Apple TV, where Netflix, Hulu and the rest had previously been available.
Now if only Apple could fix the terrible Apple TV remote.

Featured Image: smlp.co.uk/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)


Amazon is increasing its focus on Southeast Asia after the e-commerce giant launched its Prime service in Singapore.
The U.S. firm landed in Singapore, its first market in Southeast Asia, in July initially offering Prime Now, its e-commerce service with an aggressive two-hour delivery window. From this week, however, it is offering its full Prime bundle which includes free international shipping on orders over SG$40 and subscriptions to its Prime Video service and Prime Twitch offering.
This launch will put pressure on Lazada, the e-commerce site owned by Alibaba, which is Amazon’s primary competitor in Southeast Asia.
Lazada teamed up with Uber and Netflix to offer a membership package of its own — called LiveUp — in a move that seemed to pre-empt the full launch of Prime. LiveUp is currently limited to Singapore, but Lazada has pledged to expand to other markets including Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy. That makes sense since Amazon is said to be eying regional expansions and Indonesia is sure to be high on its list.
Elsewhere in the wider Asia Pacific region, Amazon entered Australia this month. These expansions add to its foray into the Middle East via the acquisition of Souq.com. Amazon Prime is also available in India and Japan.

Featured Image: Lisa Werner/Moment Mobile/Getty Images


Raspberry Pis are usually very lonely. These tiny, single-board computers sit quietly under desks or inside 3D printed cases, staring wistfully into the far distance while waiting for a little attention. Now, thanks to a side project by a programmer named Dimitri Raftopoulos, an app called PiTunnel ensures your Pi need not be alone anymore.
The project exposes your Pi to the outside world securely. With a few commands on your local Pi, you can access your little computer via a terminal or the web. A unique feature includes the ability to bring up a command prompt through your browser. It’s similar to other projects like Dataplicity but Raftopoulos has added a few of his own tweaks.
“When I first discovered Raspberry Pi while doing a personal project, I was quite surprised at how little was available for easy remote access to projects you build, so I made PiTunnel,” said Raftopoulos. He has done a great deal of software engineering for commercial embedded computers.
The project is self-funded.
“Other services are really focused on Remote Terminals. Although PiTunnel has that feature, it’s more about Tunneling, which means you can access any network service that’s running on our Raspberry Pi from anywhere in the world, whether it’s http or some other custom protocol, without bothering to setup complex network routing or static IPs,” said Raftopoulos. “You can run any service you want over it, and make it accessible to everyone in the world or secure it just for your own access.”
Thanks to PiTunnel your lonely little computer can act as a remote monitoring station, a security system, and even a remote web server. It’s a cool way to make your sad little Pi happy again.


Viola, the Israel-based technology investment group, is launching new independent VC fund targeting fintech startups from anywhere in the world. Dubbed Viola FinTech, the “cross-stage venture fund” has an initial closing of $100 million but will extend that towards $120-150 million. It is backed by global banks, insurance companies and asset managers from North America, Europe, APAC and Israel, including Scotiabank, The Travelers Companies, Inc and Bank Hapoalim.
Describing its mission as “to bridge the gap between the worlds of financial institutions and innovative startups,” Viola FinTech says its fund will work closely with its investors to accelerate what it calls “Fintegration” (no really), defined as the implementation and adaption of innovative solutions by financial institutions, and to guide startups in the regulatory and corporate environment.
To that end, the new VC’s team are said to have backgrounds in banking, entrepreneurship and investment: Prof. Daniel Tsiddon, Founder and General Partner, was the former Deputy CEO of Bank Leumi (Israel’s second largest bank) and former Chairman of Leumi Partners, the Bank’s investment arm; Tomer Michaeli, General Partner, co-founded FundBox (a leader in small business credit and payment solutions with tens of millions in revenues); and Avi Zeevi, who has been in the FinTech industry for 35 years and is Co-Founder of Viola Grop and Chairman of the FinTech fund Investment Committee.
A short email Q&A with Tsiddon follows:
What stage and size of investments are you targeting?
We are a cross stage fund which will usually invest in “A+” stage (mostly A and B, when there’s already another VC that invested in the company). Our initial check size is generally between $3M-$7M.
Which areas of fintech do you see opportunities still (it sort of feels like a lot of fintech is done in this current generation)?
We target areas that are ripe for disruption through technology where inefficiencies arise from regulation, middlemen and manual processes. Some of the areas are:

Launching of digital services by financial institutions (back office and middleware “virtualization”)
Wealth and asset management – bringing quant and data to the wealth management side (“HFing” the asset managers (HF- Hedge Fund))
Customer engagement using multitude of channels and augmented by AI
Financial services for SMBs (insurance, FX, lending, investing etc)
Creating liquidity in illiquid assets (commercial real estate etc)
Insurance – especially data platforms and underwriting using alternative data sources
Regtech: applying AI to automate regulatory and compliance processes in financial organizations

Geographically, where do you see the most opportunities in fintech?
As a global fund, we see opportunities everywhere. We will focus on Israel, the EU, and the Americas.
Who is doing best in fintech right now? ie which sectors of fintech and which hubs, such as London
Fintech has multiple hubs worldwide, so it’s difficult to say who is the “best,” but the main global hubs are New York and the Bay Area, along with London and Tel Aviv on the European side. There are some great companies in Paris and an even more under the radar ecosystem doing exciting things is Belgium.
We believe Israel’s status as a fintech powerhouse comes from the right mix of entrepreneurial culture, funding ecosystem, and legacy of Fintech success and that is also what led the global and significant institutional investors to choose to back us in this fund.


Health2Sync, a Taiwan-headquartered company that offers a diabetes tracking service, has closed a $6 million Series B round aimed at expanding its business in Japan and other markets in Asia.
Health2Sync launched at the TechCrunch Hardware Battlefield at CES 2014 and it essentially offers a smarter way to track and manage diabetes. Using a BlueTooth dongle, Android and iOS devices can be connected to a glucose meter which then populates data inside the Health2Sync app. The company formerly offered a headphone jack cable but smartphone trends forced a change.
“The problems we are trying to solve are the lack of data around diabetes tracking, and the shortage of diabetes practitioners in this part of the world,” CEO and co-founder Ed Deng told TechCrunch in an interview.
“The service kicks in when data is the smartphone. It can run analytics and give feedback, while patients can log data like food and medicine intake and exercise,” Deng added, explaining that integrations with blood pressure meters is planned for the future.
The results are impressive. The four-year-old company claims that the average blood glucose of high-risk users decreased by 22 percent after they used its service for three months. That, in turn, can help lower complications and reduce health issues.

A diabetes patient with Health2Sync staff at a community event in Taiwan
Health2Sync previously raised a $3 million Series A round in August 2016 and now this $6 million Series B will go towards expansions. While the app can be used anywhere, Deng said the value is strongest in markets where it has local partners — including pharmaceutical companies, insurance firms and its own community — and right now that is Taiwan and Hong Kong.
Japan is the world’s second largest market for spending on diabetes care, behind only the U.S.. which explains why Health2Sync is making this expansion. That’s where its relationship with Sompo Holdings, the Japanese insurance firm which led this Series B, will come into play.
“Sompo has a healthcare-focused digital subsidiary, and it understands how important taking solutions online can be,” Deng said.
The duo hope to offer specialized insurance packages to diabetes patients in the future. Existing backers Alibaba and WI Harper also took part in the funding round.
Asia as a whole is estimated to account for 60 percent of the world’s diabetes, while the number of sufferers reached a record 10 million in Japan last year. Beyond Japan, Health2Sync is aiming to grow its presence in Japan and it is hiring its first employees in Malaysia and Indonesia as it plans a push into Southeast Asia. The company said it has worked with public and private organizations to reduce the price of diabetes care in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore.


This year has seen Apple widely criticized for aiding China’s censorship push by removing VPN apps from its App Store in China. Company CEO Tim Cook painted a rather rosy picture of the situation with comments at the Fortune Forum in Chinese city Guangzhou.
“My hope over time is that some of the things, the couple of things that’s been pulled, come back. I have great hope on that and great optimism on that,” Reuters quoted Cook as saying.
There’s quite a lot to unpack from such a short statement.
Firstly, Apple didn’t just remove a “couple of things” from the reach of China-based users. It would be more accurate to say a couple of hundred, but even that is under counting.
Initial reports in July, when news of the removals surfaced, suggested that around 60 apps, mostly VPNs, were removed from the Chinese version of the App Store. However, last month, two U.S. senators put the number at 674 apps in 2017, more than double the total removed last year, and they include mainstream services like Skype.
As for whether apps will be returned to the App Store, Cook is looking to positives when all signs in reality indicate otherwise.
Under President Xi Jinping, China has advanced its internet censorship push to unprecedented levels. Beyond a clampdown on VPNs began prior to this year and reached crescendo with Apple’s action in July, Beijing has upgraded its ‘Great Firewall’ censorship system, placed restrictions on live-streaming services, celebrity gossip media and interfered with messaging apps to name just a handful of key flashpoints.
While not blocked entirely, WhatsApp users found that they were unable to send videos and photos through the chat app and issues seemed to extend to WeChat, China’s most popular messaging service. The censorship seemed to be linked to the response to the death of dissident Liu Xiaobo, a recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, who lost a battle to liver cancer earlier this month having been denied permission to leave custody to seek medical treatment overseas.


Tim Cook asked about Apple pulling apps from its store: “My view is you show up and you participate because nothing ever changes from the sidelines” adds that “each country in the world decides their laws and their regulations."
— Alexandra Stevenson (@jotted) December 6, 2017



While Cook is right that “nothing ever changes from the sidelines,” it is hard to imagine China relaxing its stance on web censorship given all that has happened.
The reality is that Apple had little choice but to follow Beijing’s line in order to continue to do business in the lucrative Chinese market, but statements like Cook’s today are dangerous because they massively underplay the severity of the situation.

Featured Image: Stephen Lam/Getty Images


Google is continuing its push to make its services accessible for people with lower-end mobile devices or slow internet connections after it introduced Google Go, a data-friendly search app.
The app was first spotted in beta in August — when it was known as Search Lite — and now it has been released for select Android devices (here).
At just 5MB the app won’t take up huge amounts of space on a device — that’s important because cheaper devices that are popular in emerging markets have limited capacity — while it includes offline support and caters to intermittent internet connections, two other factors that affect users in India (its primary target country) and other emerging markets.

Performance optimizations aside, the app is focused on enabling discovery beyond search. That’s to say that it showcases ‘featured snippets’ which give a summary of topics, related content to search results, and suggested topics. There’s also support for trending searches, and you can use voice inputs for search, too.
The app follows the introduction of data-saving app Datally, storage app Files Go and the expansion of YouTube Go, all of which are aimed at making Google and its services for relevant to users in emerging markets. Beyond apps, it is also preparing to ship a ‘Go’ version of Android.

Featured Image: Jon Russell/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)




Intel’s stumbles in the mobile arena grew to become Qualcomm’s gains with its Snapdragon platform, but now it appears that Qualcomm intends to upend their dominance in entry-level PCs as well. Today, Microsoft and Qualcomm announced that Windows would begin running on systems powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon mobile chipsets.
This isn’t entirely earth-shattering given that these are mobile chipsets running on what are still just laptop convertible 2-in-1s or tablets, but the fact that Windows 10 — albeit a more lightweight “Windows 10 S” — can run on Qualcomm 835 chips should still worry Intel quite a bit.
These devices have the brains of smartphones with the battery capacities of laptops. Qualcomm obviously won’t be competing with Intel on the performance of its higher-end chips, but one thing the company highlighted today was just how long its power-saving technologies will extend the battery life of your device.
They referred to this tech as “beyond all-day battery life,” which, as the name implies, suggests that the power efficiency of these PCs will push battery life into a second day of full usage, something that isn’t too likely to be had on most laptops that are powering a full work day. Furthermore, these PCs are optimized to be always on and always LTE-connected.
Asus and HP both announced “Windows on Qualcomm” devices, including the Asus NovaGo and HP ENVY x2. Qualcomm highlighted a 20-hour battery life on the HP ENVY x2.
The main catch is that performance will suffer on apps that aren’t UWP apps, so programs like Google Chrome or Firefox will be emulated on the machines, definitely reducing performance.
Qualcomm is making the bet that keeping PC performance at well-enough while making solid improvements in battery life will be enough to convince OEMs that are already building their smartphones on Snapdragon SoCs to make the switch to Qualcomm for their entry-level ultraportables. The idea of a computer that lasts 18-24 hours per day, as Qualcomm promises, is obviously attractive, especially given how much PC usage is often confined to web browsing, whether the battery life gains make up for the performance sacrifices will be the ultimate question.


Pranav Deshpande
Contributor



Pranav Deshpande is a San Francisco-based product marketer and a volunteer with Startup Bridge at Stanford. Startup Bridge connects leading technology innovators in the U.S. and India to build new relationships for tomorrow’s moonshots.

There’s an old trope in the West that India is like Indian trains — exotic, lurching and slow.
But tropes can be bad as a business strategy — and this trope is causing American companies to miss out on Indian moonshots and trillion-dollar opportunities.
In this article I’ll focus on fintech, which is leapfrogging in a way traditional banking never could. Morgan Stanley expects India’s digital payments penetration to increase from 5 percent today to 20 percent, and the e-commerce market to reach $200 billion, with 475 million e-commerce shoppers, adding up to a GDP upwards of $6 trillion — all by 2027.
Just like India’s mobility revolution. Most Indians went from having zero connectivity to being on the mobile internet without ever seeing a PC or even a landline. India now has 800 million mobile phone users with 430 million having internet connectivity. According to Morgan Stanley, the number of internet users is expected to grow to 915 million by 2027.
The same leapfrogging is unfolding in payments. While the internet changed how Indians communicate, read news and get entertained, it didn’t change how they transact. As this graph shows, the number of credit and debit cards in India has grown only incrementally. Even top-down initiatives by the government, such as the controversial demonetization decision, struggled to reduce reliance on cash.

Debit card usage spiked in November and December 2016 after demonetization. But it looks like it’s returning to levels below credit card transactions again.
What does this have to do with America? And who could the big US of A lose out to?
China. Because China has already tackled the two biggest obstacles to digital payments — building infrastructure and changing consumer behavior in its own backyard and front yard. By developing a rich ecosystem with strong network effects, WeChat has become the Operating System of China. Alipay has done the same with commercial payments. In 2016, China’s digital payments were already 50 times America’s. Alibaba and Tencent understand ecosystems better than anyone else in the world, including American companies.
And now China is showing the boldness to capitalize on a new generation of payments infrastructure and the patience to win the hearts and minds of Indian consumers.
Where is America in all this? 
India’s payments infrastructure is on fire. Bank accounts are the building blocks of financial inclusion, and in just three years, 285 million bank accounts have been added through the JAM program. UPI, or United Payments Interface, also has matured. UPI allows any Indian with a mobile number linked to a bank account to instantly send and receive money. Managed by the NPCI (a nonprofit organization), it also has APIs that allow any application to easily embed instant payments. Tech companies like Google and Flipkart already have UPI-based payment apps in Tez and PhonePe. Major Indian banks also have added UPI to their apps. WhatsApp also has plans to roll out it out to its Indian users.
Payments infrastructure means little without accessible experiences. A new generation of mobile wallet apps is solving that problem. PayTM is the largest with 200 million users. PhonePe also has wallet functionality. With these apps, users can connect their bank accounts or debit cards to transfer funds to the wallet to use for peer-to-peer payments, transact with small businesses or buy cellphone minutes. PayTM made serious inroads after demonetization, with street vendors, nannies and drivers also accepting it.
Alibaba is the single largest shareholder in One97 Communications, PayTM’s parent company, with an investment over $1.2 billion. Alibaba isn’t just looking for a venture scale return on investment. This is a strategic partnership unlike any other seen in India. They’ve publicly stated they see PayTM as a local partner with whom they will share their expertise in e-commerce and payments. There also are strong similarities between the strategies of both companies, with the focus on owning payments to own the consumer. Alibaba wants to get to 2 billion users by 2036. They’re not getting there without significant market share in India.

The second hard problem is changing consumer psychology. Indian consumers are value conscious. They’re wary of new products and require significant social proof before trying them. There’s also a high bar for trust that products need to overcome before a product can be adopted. And let’s face it. Understanding digital payments is hard to understand for most of us. This explains those low debit card usage numbers. Most people don’t even trust debit cards, even though they’re issued by a bank they trust!
China has solved this problem differently than American companies have.
China is looking beyond the 60-100 million affluent Indians and the retail stores that use credit cards. They’re also not getting tripped up by the less affluent 300-500 “middle India” consumers who don’t really use debit cards or trust digital payments. They’re addressing these consumers by studying and investing in where they’re spending their time.
Tencent already has 1 billion users in China who use their products every day to order food, buy tickets, play games and hundreds of other activities. Tencent is instead investing in adjacent industries. Thus, they’ve participated in a $1.1 billion round for Ola, India’s largest ridesharing company, and a $1.4 billion round for Flipkart, the largest e-commerce company.
Where is America in all this? American companies still largely view the Indian financial sector as stodgy and are focused on the urban affluent consumers, versus the entire country.
So far, American investment in India’s booming payments space have been paltry by Chinese standards. The only company with skin in the game is Amazon. They’ve committed $5 billion dollars to India and are buying stakes in Indian retailers. But we’re not seeing the same level of strategic investment and partnerships with local companies.
Despite the deep economic and military ties between the U.S. and India, at the present moment China has stolen a march ahead of America in investing in the Indian fintech frontier. There’s a real risk of American companies being left behind.

Featured Image: Calvste/Shutterstock (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)


It was a busy day in Maui as Qualcomm kicked off this year’s Snapdragon Tech Summit. The San Diego chipmaker announced a two-in-one PC form factor powered by the Snapdragon 835 that has some big name hardware partners like Asus and HP behind it. The company also used the opportunity to tease its latest flagship processor, the Snapdragon 845.
Details are still pretty scarce, but the company confirmed rumors that the chip is due out in 2018. The 845 is almost certain to become ubiquitous on high-end flagships next year, taking the place of the 835, which was introduced this time last year and  powered nearly every high-end handset for the next 12 months.
Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun took to the stage today to announce that his company’s next premium handset would run on the chip. You can expect plenty of other big name Android hardware companies to follow suit soon after. Samsung, Google and LG all built 2017 flagships around the chip — though those companies may well just wait for their next product announcements to throw their weight behind the 845.
The chip will likely be found in other, non-Android devices, as well, including Windows 10 PCs, among others. And given the company’s embrace of VR headsets with the 835, I wouldn’t be too surprised to see the 845 popping up in some of those, as well.
Without divulging too much in the way of specs, Qualcomm SVP Alex Katouzian highlighted a few of the key focuses for the chip, including imaging/video processing, AI, VR/AR and battery life. In other words, precisely what one would expect from the next generation flagship chip from the company. 
We’re likely to hear a lot more about the chip tomorrow, on day two of the summit, so stay tuned.

Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


When it announced the new Surface Pro a few months back, Microsoft also used the opportunity to preview Whiteboard, a Windows 10 app designed to offer creative and business collaboration across devices. Since then, the app’s only been available as a private beta, but starting today, Microsoft’s offering it up as a public beta for anyone with a Windows 10 device. 
Whiteboard is a compelling little app. It’s sort of a digital sibling to Microsoft’s pricey Surface Hub. The app will start rolling out to Windows 10 over the course of the next 24 hours, bringing the ability to essentially brainstorm, ideate, iterate and all of those other fun work things in real time across multiple devices running the same operating system.

The app uses a swap or a pen input, turning objects into standardized shapes in order to create tables, flowcharts, diagrams and the like; autosaving work to the cloud, others can pick up where you’ve left off. It looks like a pretty compelling app, and one that straddles the line between Microsoft’s traditional work focus and its current push to recruit more creative types through its Surface line of products.
Of course, these sort of work apps are really tough to get right, even with all of the advances to cloud-based collaborative over the past few years. Multi-device collaboration does require at least one person have an Office 360 subscription. Whiteboard is out of beta, but still in preview, so it’s not quite the final version. Microsoft’s still soliciting feedback, including feature requests through the app.
No word on whether or when the app might be coming to additional operating systems, but given Microsoft’s mobile strategy of late, I wouldn’t be too shocked to see it arrive on Android and iOS devices in the not too distant future.


Foursquare’s VP of business development Mike Harkey, who has been with the company for more than five years, has left to join Google as its director of global product partnerships.
His LinkedIn page shows that he joined Google this month after serving a lengthy tenure at Foursquare, which has seen a significant shift from an early darling as a check-in product to one with a robust enterprise business and location data set. Foursquare now has products like City Guide, which provide a wide array of tips, locations and other information for venues in different cities.
“[Harkey] moved on to a role at Google after 5 terrific years with Foursquare,” the company said. “We’re wishing him all the best. Jeff Reine, who has been with Foursquare for two years, was named the new VP of Business Development and Enterprise.”
The company raised $45 million at the beginning of last year as it began to capitalize on its data business as co-founder Dennis Crowley took a step back. That data business, indeed, is probably the company’s strongest asset as its location services power myriad services. As Foursquare looks to continue building out those partnerships, Harkey’s departure may be a bit of a speed bump, as he takes with him over to Google a lot of experience working with the platform. Foursquare is going to have to continue building out those kinds of partnerships if it’s going to thrive off its data business.
Over that time, the company has gathered as many as 125,000 developers and powers location services for companies like Uber and Airbnb. While starting off as a consumer product, Foursquare was able to create a thorough set of so-called “true” locations of venues, which might not be a specific latitude and longitude but rather a general area that exists in the minds of consumers. And it built a suite of developer tools on top of that, allowing developers to quickly tap that data if they need a big data set of venues, locations and information around those.
We also reached out to Harkey, and will update when we hear back.

Featured Image: Foursquare


This morning, Frederic reported that Intuit has acquired TSheets, a time-tracking service, for $340 million. That’s one of the highest prices that Intuit has ever paid for an acquisition, roughly equal to the cost of the company’s acquisition of Mint Bills / Check in 2014, and slightly smaller than the acquisition of Demandforce in 2012 for $423 million (which Intuit has since divested in).
Despite its size, the acquisition appears to be fairly standard for Intuit, fitting in well with their small business-focused SaaS strategy. However, what caught my eye is that TSheets is based in Eagle, Idaho, just outside of Boise, and even more importantly, Intuit is going to convert the TSheets headquarters into a new product and engineering office as part of the transaction.
That news might be sweet relief for the 260 employees who work at TSheets, but it is also a strong sign of the “rise of the rest” that we have chronicled for a long time here on TechCrunch.
Venture capitalists like Steve Case have made a strong case for investing outside of major urban areas. Case pushed hard on this theme at TechCrunch Disrupt New York this year, calling for venture investors to look wider for great founders and startups. And as Catherine noted yesterday, Case has followed up that passion with an announcement that he has raised a special $150 million seed fund to exclusively invest in startups located in “the rest.”
It’s great to see more capital getting invested in these startup ecosystems, but the real gains come when the exits start showing up. And few companies seem as interested in rise of the rest startups than Intuit.
Using Intuit’s data along with Crunchbase, I looked at the acquisitions the company has made over the past four years (it’s important to note that smaller acqui-hire-style acquisitions may never be announced). Indeed, 15 of 23 companies that the company has publicly acquired have been outside of Silicon Valley, or roughly two-thirds of the company’s deals. (Unfortunately, purchase price data is harder to track down, so the proportion of dollars is tougher to calculate accurately.)
In the United States, I count eight companies outside of the Valley: two in Los Angeles (Lettuce and Docstoc), and single acquisitions in Sacramento (CustomerLink), Seattle (Full Slate), Philadelphia (Exactor), Boston (Prestwick) and Chicago (itDuzzit), along with today’s acquisition of TSheets in Idaho. That’s particularly interesting given that the company’s headquarters is in  Mountain View, California, and a lot of Valley acquirers prefer to roll acquisitions into their existing offices.
Intuit has repeatedly told investors that one of its top priorities beyond growth of its core product revenue is to expand globally. The company considers the U.S., Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom to be its established markets, and indeed most of its global acquisitions have been in these markets. In the United Kingdom, Intuit acquired Bankstream in London, Acrede in Salisbury, and PaySuite in Brentwood, a suburb of London. In Australia, it acquired two companies, Fifo and Invitco.
What’s interesting is how M&A plays into the company’s designated emerging markets of India, Brazil and France. Intuit acquired KDK Software, which produces software for tax compliance in the Indian market, which the company considers to be a key growth area. It used M&A to expand in Brazil, purchasing ZeroPaper, a cloud-based SMB accounting software product in 2015. The gap appears to be in France, where the company hasn’t made an acquisition (at least, none that I could find), although considers it a key market because of “compliance-heavy needs.”
As one of the few acquirers of small business-focused startups, Intuit’s strategy can give hope to entrepreneurs, particularly outside the Valley. The question is whether more companies will follow Intuit’s lead and buy a majority of their companies outside of their home base, or continue to only do transactions within three blocks of Caltrain in San Francisco.

Featured Image: Chris Dlugosz/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


Facebook wants you to share a bit more about yourself on your profile, so today it’s launching a new feature to web and mobile users called “Did You Know,” where you can answer questions about yourself to clue friends into your secrets, dreams, goals and feelings.

As people back away from statuses and focus more on sharing articles, videos and photos, this feature offers an opportunity for users to answer questions about themselves more directly. So many of Facebook’s recent efforts to change how people customize their profiles have seemed to get buried in the clutter. The inherent share-ability of this might play a bit nicer given its visibility; you can share with the customized colorful backgrounds that FB has pushed on its statuses already.
This feature also really seems like the early stages of something that could lead to more sophisticated advertiser profiles, but at the moment the questions are honestly pretty hokey. Here’s a smattering of the questions Facebook said could pop up in the “did you know?” section:

The superpower I want most is…
The first thing I’d do after winning the lottery is…
A guilty pleasure that I’m willing to admit to is…
Mondays make me feel like…

The feature is all a tad reminiscent of what tbh was doing to integrate asking users light and friendly questions about their friends. This is the other side of the coin, asking users to talk more about themselves.
Tbh, which Facebook acquired in October, has tanked in the App Store ratings, dropping from being the No. 1 downloaded app around when it was purchased to being the 771st most-downloaded app in the U.S. currently, according to App Annie data. The startup said it had 2.5 million daily active users when Facebook acquired it.
tbh App Annie rankings
A healthy amount of these features eventually seem to find themselves as dead-ends, but Facebook is obviously looking to explore how it can goad users to get more comfortable answering questions about themselves and their friends. It’s obvious why they would want to build this type of relationship, but whether they’ll find success with apps like tbh and this new profile feature remains a bit unclear.


Apple today is introducing a new way for app developers to acquire users for their apps: it’s launching a pay-per-install advertising product called Search Ads Basic. The “basic” branding signals that this product is being aimed at smaller developers compared with the existing Search Ads product, which is now being renamed to Search Ads Advanced.
Launched last year, Search Ads have been one of the biggest changes to date in terms of improving discovery of mobile applications on the App Store. The idea with the original Search Ads product was to help developers better target potential users using specific information – like location, gender, keywords, and whether or not they’ve ever installed the app before.
After configuring a campaign, those ads would then appear at the top of the App Store search results when users searched for a keyword or terms, like “games,” or “war games,” for example.
Developers paid for these ad placements when users tapped on them.

That product, now called Search Ads Advanced, isn’t going away. Instead, it’s being joined by a more entry-level option, Search Ads Basic.
In this case, developers aren’t paying for taps, but for actual app installations as a result of the ad.

Setting up a Search Ads Basic campaign has also been designed to be a much simpler process. The only parameters that have to be entered are the app to be advertised, the budget, and the amount the developer wants to pay per install.
Here, Apple will helpfully suggest the maximum the developer should pay based on historical data from the App Store related to the type of app being marketed. While other pay-per-install ad campaigns from third parties may offer similar results in terms of installs, Apple’s advantage is that it has direct access to App Store data and the ads themselves show up directly in the App Store – not elsewhere on the web.
Apple’s implementation of ad targeting also respects user privacy. While it does use its historical understanding of App Store trends to help target ads, it doesn’t build specific profiles on individual users for targeting purposes.
In addition to the ease-of-use, a side effect of using Apple’s Search Ads product is that it can lead to a higher chart ranking. Apple’s algorithm takes into consideration number of downloads and velocity of those installs to move an app up the Top Charts. Because Apple considers an install from Search Ads a “high quality” download, it counts those installs towards the app’s chart position and its rise.
There are no limitations on the type of app or size of the company that can use Search Ads Basic, but it will make the most sense for smaller shops who aren’t yet ready to toy with Search Ads’ more advanced options. Plus, Search Ads Basic limits budgets to $5,000 per month, while Search Ads Advanced has no such upper limit.
Since its launch, Search Ads have been largely embraced by developers as an easy way to increase their app’s exposure. Apple’s data indicates that conversion rates for the original Search Ads product have been holding steady at over 50 percent, while the cost per acquisition has been below $1.50. Compared to other platforms, this is below the market norms.
The new ad product is launching today and will be available on searchads.apple.com alongside the Search Ads Advanced offering. From there, developers can start their campaigns then track results in an online dashboard showing how many users installed the app, the campaign budget, and the amount paid.
Initially launched in the U.S., Search Ads were more recently expanded internationally, to markets including the U.K., Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Switzerland and Mexico.
However, Search Ads Basic won’t roll out to these markets until sometime next year.


Windows laptops and tablets have traditionally run on X86 processors from the likes of Intel and AMD. Microsoft experimented with using ARM-based processors when it launched the Surface RT and Windows RT in 2012 — and it cost the company dearly. The failure of the Surface RT was mostly due to software, though. The system could only run a small subset of applications that had been specifically compiled for it — and hence you couldn’t just install Chrome or Photoshop, for example. It didn’t help that Microsoft’s marketing for the Surface RT was confusing for many consumers.
Fast-forward to today and Microsoft is ready to give ARM on laptops another try. But this time, you will be able to run any program you wish. Windows 10 for ARM is officially launching today, and while Microsoft itself isn’t launching an ARM-based Surface device just yet, the company has partnered with the likes of HP to launch a new class of laptops that Microsoft officially brands as “Always Connected Devices.”
The promise of using ARM-based chips (and we’re mostly talking Qualcomm Snapdragon processors here), is that you’ll get the kind of user experience that you’ve become accustomed to from your smartphones. That means these devices will turn on almost immediately, feature wireless LTE connectivity and — maybe most importantly — offer the kind of battery life that’ll let you get through a day or two (and, in the future, maybe a week) of work without having to recharge.

Ideally, of course, that’s exactly what users who really shouldn’t have to care about which processors sit in their laptops will experience once the first ARM-based laptops go on sale. ASUS and HP, which both worked with Microsoft on bringing the first Windows 10 for ARM devices to market, both claim that their first entries into this market will offer over 20 hours of active-use battery life and close to 30 days of standby.
ASUS is entering this market with the NovaGo, a foldable Gigabit LTE laptop powered by the Snapdragon 835 platform. HP is bringing the ENVY x2 Surface clone to the party. HP’s entry offers 4G LTE2 support.
The biggest difference between the failed RT experiment and these new devices is that users will be able to run any existing Windows applications and that all modern peripherals will just work, too.
As Erin Chapple, Microsoft’s GM of Windows told me, the company recompiled the Windows 10 operating system for ARM. There is no emulation at the operating system level. The team spent quite a bit of time trying to decide where to set the boundary between the operating system and the emulated layer, though. In the end, Microsoft decided to natively compile all of the DLLs (that is, most of the Windows libraries) and set the emulation layer above that.
For everything that sits above this and needs to be emulated, Windows 10 on ARM uses a dynamic binary translator to translate X86 code into ARM64 code on-the-fly.
Because of these design choices, most applications should run with almost native-like performance, because most standard Windows apps tend to call the operating system APIs (including those for graphics) directly — and all of those libraries have been recompiled, after all. Any time you are dealing with an app that’s heavily CPU-bound, you’ll see a performance hit.
Over time, though, Microsoft will surely make it easier to bring into its marketplace applications that have been pre-compiled for ARM, so that CPU-heavy applications will be able to run at native speeds, too.



HP




HP 2




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Rene Haas, the head of ARM’s intellectual property group, told me that it’s worth remembering that his company started working with Microsoft back in 2008 (and not just around Windows RT but also around the Windows Mobile ecosystem).
“We are pretty excited about where we are at,” he told me. “It’s been a long engagement with Microsoft around this platform but also, a lot has changed since the first time they were looking at windows on ARM.”
He said that a few years ago, ARM only offered a 32-bit architecture, for example, and that ARM-based chips have only now reached the point where they are powerful enough to enable laptop-like performance (indeed, Microsoft’s Chapple also noted that one of the motivations for Qualcomm here is that its chips are now so powerful they eclipse the standard phone workloads and the company is looking for other places to use them).
“I’ve lived through the Windows RT journey and I believe we’ve taken a number of the past learnings that came from that to take a new approach to enable Windows on ARM that’s differentiated both in terms of the core platform experience and that’s differentiated because of the core promise of Windows,” Sones said.
She also stressed that she hopes that Windows on ARM will push Intel forward, too, and she expects that this device category will include Intel-powered machines in the future. “We’ve all seen that Intel is at their best when they are under pressure,” she added.
ARM’s Haas expects that his company will continue to offer more powerful architectures with double-digit performance gains every year. In his view, we’ve now reached the tipping point where ARM-based laptops can compete with Intel-based ones. As the power of the ARM platform increases, he said, “it starts to move us into a class where we can be on even footing to deliver a no-compromise experience on a laptop PC.”
Because we haven’t used any of these new devices yet, we simply don’t know if they are any good. What we have seen, though, is that there’s a market for instant-on PCs in the form of Google’s Chromebooks. Both Google’s and Microsoft’s aim here is to offer their vision of what the future of mobile computing (and work) beyond the smartphone will look like. “We are competing around this new culture of work,” Microsoft’s GM of device strategy and ecosystem Roanne Sones acknowledged. “That’s what’s changing and we need to make our device experience and our PC experience modern.”
In this context, ARM’s Haas also stressed that this new architecture will enable new form factors, too, simply because of the fact that if you don’t need a fan, you can put the CPU anywhere in a device (even behind the screen) to enable new foldable or detachable products (or to cram in more batteries into these laptops).
It’s interesting to see that Microsoft is launching this platform without a flagship device in its own Surface lineup. Maybe it’s doing this to avoid any of the lingering confusion around the Surface RT, but the Microsoft team itself claims that it’s doing this because it wanted to work closely with its ecosystem partners to build, validate and harden this platform. Either way, I expect that we’ll see an ARM-powered Surface device in the not so distant future.


Jake Bright
Contributor



Jake Bright is a writer and author in New York City. He is co-author of The Next Africa.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Will Interswitch still be the company that brings Sub-Saharan Africa its big tech windfall?
Africa Roundup: Lori Systems wins BFX Africa, Andela raises $40M, Jumia lends to SMEs, Safaricom launches incubator



Lagos based online real estate startup ToLet.com.ng acquired Jumia House Nigeria for an undisclosed amount. Jumia House is a subsidiary of the continent’s lone tech unicorn — Pan-African e-commerce giant Jumia.com.
ToLet and Jumia House Nigeria will merge platforms under the new name PropertyPro.ng.
The $1.2 million Series A startup was able to buy part of a $1 billion company with the help of its lead investor, Frontier Digital Ventures (FDV). While ToLet originally reported to TechCrunch that FDV served primarily as a facilitator of the deal, both now confirm FDV helped finance the deal. FDV went a little further, and acquired 100 percent interests in Jumia House Ghana, and Jumia House Angola, according to a company spokesperson.
The new PropertyPro entity will combine ToLet’s and Jumia House NG’s listings to create the largest online real estate listings platform in Nigeria with 65 percent of the market, according to ToLet Co-Founder Sulaiman Balogun. The platform will generate revenues primarily from agent subscription fees. PropertyPro will also expand agents and listings across Nigeria and be available on an Android app.
 
Facebook’s New Nigeria Hub
Facebook announced the 2018 opening of NG_Hub, a Lagos based tech space managed in partnership with CcHub Nigeria. TechCrunch checked in with CcHub CEO Bosun Tijani on the hub’s core details. “I think the core of it is for Facebook to place a bet on high tech startups…that may not get a chance in Africa―augmented reality, artificial intelligence…data driven ventures―and build a space that can support startups at that level,” he said.
The actual space will be based Yaba, Tijani told TechCrunch, referring to Lagos’s unofficial IT district.
“There will be a virtual reality lab, a creator lab, and a co-working space within it,” he said. “The program will not be limited to the space itself,” according to Tijani, who said NG_Hub will “run an acceleration program…so other technology hubs from across Nigeria can also support startups through the program.” An official opening will likely be sometime in Q1 of 2018.

Update on Africa’s IPO Landscape
Nigerian fintech firm Interswitch—which provides much of Nigeria’s digital banking and payments infrastructure—will likely go public on the LSE in 2019, according to company statements and sources. As reported in TechCrunch in 2016, the Helios Investment Partners backed company (now beyond startup phase) was poised for a listing on the London stock exchanges at a $1 billion valuation. Nearly two years on it hasn’t happened, delaying what would have been Africa’s first big listing on a foreign exchange by a VC backed tech company.
In a September 2017 interview, Interswitch Divisional Chief Executive Officer Akeem Lawal named “unfavorable equity markets” and reaffirmed an IPO, saying “It will happen before the end of 2019.”
TechCrunch checked in with a couple of Nigerian tech insiders on Interswitch’s prospects to become Africa’s first big IPO — and the possibility another venture could beat them to it.
Paga CEO Tayo Oviosu named Nigeria’s “macroeconomic situation” and “ volatility of the Naira” as culprits for the delay—noting the Nigerian economy and Naira improved in 2017. On timing for an Interswitch public listing, “They’re gearing themselves up to go back and do an IPO…probably not next year, more likely the year after,” Oviosu told TechCrunch.
Omobola Johnson — Nigeria’s former Minister of Communication Technology and Senior Partner at TLCom Capital — thinks Interswitch is still ripe to go public. “Interswitch as a company…still continues to do well…Interswitch is still growing, it’s still profitable, and it still has significant market share in Nigeria and other African markets…They are still very strong to be the [continent’s] first significant tech IPO,” Johnson said. She named Andela, Twiga Foods, and Flutterwave as other future Africa IPO contenders, for a 3-5 year window.                     
More Africa Related Stories @TechCrunch

·         This Tech Startup Is Trying To Tackle Waste in Africa
·         Shujaa Delivery Aims to Complete With Aramax, DHL, and Others

African Tech Around The Net    
·         MEST Launches Incubator Spaces in Lagos, Cape Town―@VentureBurn
·         African Fintech Company JUMO Raises US$24M for Expansion―@ITWebAfrica
·         Female-Focused Angel Investment Fund Launched in Africa―@DisruptAfrica
·         AFF Disrupt To Herald Nigeria’s First Fintech Accelerator―@TechCabal
·         China’s Transsion Dominates Africa Mobile Phone Market―@FT
·         Hiring Firm Shortlist Acquires East Africa’s Spire Education―@TechWeez
·         Africa Set to Top 1 Billion Mobile Internet Connections In Five Years―@Reuters
·         Technology May Help Compensate for Africa’s Lack of Manufacturing―@TheEconomist


Amazon and Google’s feud continues today, as Google is pulling its YouTube app – again – from Amazon’s Alexa-powered Echo Show device. This will be followed by the app’s removal from Fire TV in the near future.
As you may recall, Google wasn’t too happy with the way Amazon had initially implemented YouTube on the Echo Show. It looked different and was lacking a lot of features YouTube users expect. That led to Google pulling access to YouTube for Echo Show device owners earlier this fall.
However, a couple of weeks ago, the YouTube app returned to Echo Show – a signal that seemed to indicate all was well between the companies.
As it turned out, that was not the case.
In fact, Google didn’t even know that Amazon had brought the app back – they learned about it from the press, sources familiar with Google’s situation have told TechCrunch.
Amazon had apparently worked around the block by implementing the web version of YouTube.  This version was also built without Google’s input.
While the original app lacked key YouTube features like channel subscriptions, related videos, commenting and sharing, among other things, the new version of YouTube that replaced it now overlays voice controls on top of the experience, which Google claims is a violation of its Terms of Service.

The original Echo Show app; image credit – Voicebot
But this feud here isn’t just about YouTube. It’s a broader battle between the two companies which is also tied to Amazon’s more recent decision to pull even more of Google’s products from its online site, where they had previously been available for sale.
Amazon has historically leveraged its dominant position in e-commerce to promote its own products – like Fire TV and Echo – over similar items from competitors, like Chromecast, Apple TV, and a smart speaker from LINE, for example. Today, Amazon doesn’t carry Google products like Chromecast and Google Home and it doesn’t make Prime Video available to Google Cast users.
The nail in the coffin, though, seems to be last month’s decision by Amazon to stop selling Nest’s latest products, too.
This includes the removal of the Nest Thermostat E, Nest Camera IQ and Nest Secure alarm system from Amazon’s online store. Nest was not given an explanation, but the timing of the removal came shortly after YouTube was pulled from Echo Show. Coincidence? I think not.
Previously, Amazon had even marketed Nest devices as “working with Alexa” and listed the thermostat as one of “Amazon’s Choice” picks. In other words, the removal was clearly a coded message to Google to back down on its Terms of Service enforcements regarding YouTube.
The Echo Show version of YouTube will stop working as of today, but Fire TV users will instead be warned that the app will disappear on January 1, 2018. That’s long enough for them to make other arrangements (perhaps, ahem, buy a different streaming player?). Or maybe they can use the newly added Amazon Silk web browser to load the YouTube site on Fire TV – a hack that we hear should work for the time being at least.
The two companies have been negotiating for some time in an attempt to reach an agreement that will benefit both their customers, so it’s unclear why they’re not able to come to some sort of reasonable compromise here.
After all, the end result is that they’re making both companies’ customers unhappy. Customers who ultimately live in a world where they’re not choosing between Amazon or Google, but may use products and services from both.
As the feud continues, Amazon users won’t be able to watch one of the world’s most popular video services on Amazon hardware. Meanwhile, online shoppers won’t be able to buy some top selling hardware and smart home devices like the Google Home, Chromecast and Nest devices on the biggest e-commerce site.
“We’ve been trying to reach agreement with Amazon to give consumers access to each other’s products and services,” a Google spokesperson told TechCrunch. “But Amazon doesn’t carry Google products like Chromecast and Google Home, doesn’t make Prime Video available for Google Cast users, and last month stopped selling some of Nest’s latest products. Given this lack of reciprocity, we are no longer supporting YouTube on Echo Show and FireTV. We hope we can reach an agreement to resolve these issues soon.”
Amazon provided the following comment when contacted:
Echo Show and Fire TV now display a standard web view of YouTube.com and point customers directly to YouTube’s existing website. Google is setting a disappointing precedent by selectively blocking customer access to an open website. We hope to resolve this with Google as soon as possible.
 
 


Having conquered just about every other form of media, Marvel’s getting into the scripted podcasting game. Launching in Spring of next year, ’Wolverine: The Long Night’ marks the comics-turned-multimedia company’s first foray into the space. The series kicks off with a 10-episode season, premiering on Stitcher’s premium service, where it will be an exclusive until it makes its way to other platforms in the fall. 
Marvel describes the project as a “hybrid of mystery and the larger-scale fantasy,” following a pair of agents on the trail of a serial killer in Alaska. The main suspect, naturally, is everyone’s favorite metal skeletoned Canadian mutant, Wolverine, voiced by Richard Armitage, probably best known for his role as Thorin Oakenshield in The Hobbit film trilogy. 
In fact, Marvel’s pulled together a pretty solid voice cast for this first foray into the genre, including 30 Rock’s Scott Adsit, Christopher Guest regular Bob Balaban and Brian Stokes Mitchell of Mr. Robot. There will also be a few cameos along the way, including, oddly enough, comedian and podcaster, Chris Gethard. 
The companies are going full-on radio drama for this one, with sound effects recorded in surround sound, as the agents travel through the forests and cabins for Logan. The effect could either be really cool, or a bit goofy, depending on execution. Thankfully, Marvel and Stitcher have enlisted what looks to be an equally capable production team for the project, including comic writer Ben Percy, director Brendan Baker and sound designer Chloe Prasinos, who worked on Reply All for Gimlet, prior to joining up. 
Should be a fun experiment in old timey storytelling on a new media, either way. And hey, everyone loves Wolverine. 


Publishing conglomerate Ziff Davis has officially bought online news site Mashable for a mere $50 million, according to Recode.
Last month, we followed up on a report in The Wall Street Journal mentioning a sale was in the works.
The sale is now final and it’s a hell of a deal, considering the site’s valuation was $250 million just one year ago, when Time Warner’s Turner led a $15 million round in the company.
The all-out sale of Mashable comes after the publisher reportedly tried and failed to secure additional funding throughout this year. Much of that failure may be due to a projected loss this year after pushing toward more video content.
Ziff Davis now plans to refocus the news site toward tech and tech-lifestyle content, which is what Mashable originally focused on when it launched in 2005.
Along with that refocus comes some inevitable layoffs. According to an internal letter sent to Recode, at least 50 people will be laid off due to the transition, though Mashable founder Pete Cashmore will stay on.
“At our last meeting, you asked whether there would be changes to the organization post-acquisition,” the letter from Cashmore to employees reads. “Unfortunately, I must confirm that this will be the case. It is never easy to see colleagues and friends depart the company. While such decisions are difficult and painful, I can assure you they were made only after very careful consideration and based on what we firmly believe will provide Mashable with a strategy and structure that will drive a successful, sustainable and profitable future.”
The news comes as other online outlets like BuzzFeed announced last week it would be laying off 100 people, or six percent of its workforce.

Featured Image: Slaven Vlasic/Getty Images


Shervin Pishevar, co-founder of Sherpa Capital and co-founder of Hyperloop One, is taking an immediate leave of absence from both companies, as well as from his board responsibilities at Sherpa’s portfolio companies.
Pishevar, in his statement via a lawyer, said it was his idea to take a leave of absence and that the decision was not made lightly. Pishevar’s hope is that his absence “will eliminate any potential distraction to the great and important work being done at these companies.”
This comes about a week after multiple women accused Pishevar of sexual misconduct. In response to those allegations, Pishevar, through his lawyer, said the allegations are part of a “smear campaign” against him. One allegation described how Pishevar “forcibly kissed” someone and later showed that same person photos of vaginas on his phone.
Here’s his full statement:

As many of you may have seen in recent news coverage, I filed a lawsuit last month against what I believe to be potential perpetrators of a smear campaign against me. As that legal action progresses, it is my priority to ensure that the Sherpa Capital family is not adversely affected.
Therefore, I have decided to take an immediate leave of absence from my duties at Sherpa Capital and Virgin Hyperloop One, as well as my portfolio company board responsibilities, so that I can pursue the prosecution of my lawsuit, where I am confident I will be vindicated. Through the discovery process, I hope to unearth who fabricated the fraudulent London ‘police report,’ and who is responsible for spreading false rumors about me.
This was a decision I came to and proposed on my own accord. It is not one I took lightly and it was a difficult decision that was guided by Sherpa Capital’s abiding belief in service and putting others before ourselves.
I care deeply about the incredible teams at Sherpa Capital and our portfolio companies and Virgin Hyperloop One, and hope that my decision to take a leave of absence will eliminate any potential distraction to the great and important work being done at these companies.


As Pinterest looks to further expand beyond just the audience you’d expect to use it, it’s going to have to start chasing down users and meet them on different territories — and that includes messaging apps.
So today Pinterest is launching a pair of updates that is going to help it tap into that audience of people that are sharing content on Facebook Messenger. People might already be copying links to Pinterest and pasting them in Messenger, but the company is looking to make that a little more seamless to get to the point where you can go into Messenger and be able to regularly interact with Pinterest.
The bot works as you’d expect — you open up a chat with the Pinterest bot and type in an idea you’re interested in, like food or clothing. The bot will then start recommending ideas from Pinterest, for which you can take a deeper dive in at any point if you’re interested in them. Pinterest is the latest in a wave of companies to see some kind of opportunity in a platform like Messenger, though it still seems the full story on that has yet to play out.
The chat extension brings Pinterest’s experience closer to the Messenger experience, allowing users to both link out pins in a Facebook message and dive deeper into that content within the messenger. So when you go into a pin on Messenger, you’ll start to see and feel something that is a little bit like the core Pinterest experience without actually leaving Messenger.
This isn’t the first time we’ve seen Pinterest start to look beyond just its home platform in order to get people closer and closer to executing on an idea. Pinterest earlier this year rolled out QR codes that will show up in stores, another move that’s trying to collapse the distance between a user’s everyday behavior and getting them to actually get on Pinterest and start saving content.
With more than 200 million monthly active users, Pinterest is still a bit of a blip compared to Facebook — though, the audience behavior is certainly different in a lot of ways. But as Pinterest looks to continue to grow, it has to start looking in places that it might not normally look in order to get people interested in the service. Getting tied more closely with Facebook Messenger, a service with more than 1 billion users, seems like a pretty natural place to start.

Featured Image: Pinterest


Lyft just announced that it has added an additional $500 million to its most recent funding round, a $1 billion raise announced in October. The now-$1.5 billion round includes participation from Fidelity Management & Research Company as well as the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Fund.
Lyft’s post-money valuation as of this add-on raise is now $11.5 billion, with the expanded round still led by Alphabet’s CapitalG.
2017 has been a banner year for Lyft in terms of performance, with expansion to well over 100 new markets, including Canada sometime this month. It has also more than doubled its total miles driven for rides this year, with a month yet to go before 2018.


Jinn, the London on-demand delivery startup that shut down and was put into administration after being unable to pay creditors, has found a buyer for some of its assets.
TechCrunch understands that global logistics company Rico Logistics Ltd., under its London-based luxury delivery service Henchman, has acquired the Jinn app, brand and (presumably) customer base.
A regulatory filing is expected next week with further details, but for now the price is not being disclosed. I understand, however, that no one at Jinn has kept their job as part of the asset purchase.
In a message addressed to “Partners and Customers” that was displayed on the Jinn website last month but has now been removed, Henchman said it had acquired the brand of Jinnapp.com and was in the process of “relaunching the service to all Jinnapp.com clients and Partners”. It also announced the intention to roll the Jinn brand into “our new on demand concierge brand for 2018”.
It’s not clear if that is in reference to Henchman or a new brand altogether. However, I understand that the acquired Jinn app is being operated within Rico’s Henchman team, which is headed up by Henchman app Managing Director Amarjit Pall. I’ve contacted both Pall and Jinn’s legally appointed administrator for further details but both have so far declined to comment beyond what has already been made public.
What we do know is that the Henchman brand and app, a London-only on-demand concierge delivery service, was itself acquired by Rico earlier this year. That left Henchman’s founder Ryan Perera free to pivot to a new B2B startup called Captain.ai that offers software to help restaurants use AI to automate delivery driver dispatches.
Meanwhile, in a message seen by TechCrunch that was sent last month to couriers that had contracted for Jinn, Henchman said it wanted to have a “chat”. That’s likely in reference to restarting the Jinn service that runs 7 days a week, although how many of those couriers will want to take up that possibility remains to be seen. A recent regulatory filing, as reported by The Telegraph, says that 1,800 couriers have been left out of pocket — such is the insecurity of startup life and the wider gig economy.
As we reported at the time of Jinn’s shuttering in October, it came after a turbulent time for the startup over the last year. In May, the company, which operated a same-hour ‘shop on your behalf’ delivery app similar to Postmates in the U.S., announced that it had raised $10 million in further funding. That, in theory, brought total raised by Jinn to a modest $20 million in comparison to other players in the on-demand delivery space. However, it isn’t clear that the full $10 million entered the startup’s balance sheet and was likely contingent on milestones and delivered in tranches, whilst, according to the Telegraph, it now looks like some of that was actually debt financing.
This was followed just two months later with news that Jinn had pulled out of all markets outside London, “pausing” operations in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham and Leeds in the U.K., and Madrid and Barcelona in Spain. We also learned that Jinn co-founder and COO Leon Herrera had departed the startup a few weeks earlier.
Those drastic cutbacks appeared to have been enough to save the company, and one month later Jinn claimed that it was profitable at an EBITDA level, with 30 per cent contribution margins, and expecting to close the year with $22 million in sales. This evidently didn’t pan out and the “acquisition” by Rico looks like a partial fire sale at best.


Apple’s played a central role in podcast since its earliest days — heck, even the term was borrowed from its big hardware product at the time. But the company’s marketshare appears to have eroded somewhat as players like Google and Spotify have entered the market, reportedly down from 70-percent of podcast downloads in 2015 to 55-percent in 2017.
That’s still not a bad place to be, but the more podcasts become legitimized through big name shows like Serial, the more the company will have to bat back the competition. In light of all this, Apple may well be planting its flag in the sand. This morning, the Hot Pod newsletter reported that the company had picked up a small Bay Area-based startup called Pop Up Archive in what appears to the be an effort to build up its in-house podcasting tools. 
The company offered TechCrunch a followup, noting, “Apple buys smaller technology companies from time to time, and we generally do not discuss our purpose or plans.” 
As for what those plans are, keeping Pop Up Archive operating as is doesn’t appear to be on the list. The startup abruptly closed up shop late last month, a day after posting message on Twitter asking users to download all of their content before then. 
You’ve likely not heard of the company, unless this is a world you follow closely. Pop Up Archive was founded back in  2012 and has remained pretty small since then. We first caught wind of it back in 2014, when it appeared at the 500 Startups Demo Day. At the time, the company was demonstrating a tool that tags audio usually transcribed textual data. A user uploads a podcast and it offers tags.
Sounds like a small thing, sure, but it’s a potentially important one when you’re dealing with long audio files. iTunes and the iPhone Podcast app could greatly benefit from additional contextual search. It would go a long way toward finding and recommending content via the service. At the moment, Apple’s recommendations are limited to similar shows. Pop Archive also maintained Audiosearch, a podcast search engine that also closed up shop on November 28.


Pivotal wants to be the development platform that serves everyone, and today at their SpringOne Platform (S1P) developer conference in San Francisco, they announced a huge upgrade to their Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform (PCF) that includes support for serverless computing, containers and a new app store.
As James Watters, senior VP of strategy sees it, this is all part of a deliberate strategy by Pivotal to provide a complete developer experience. “One of the things we do pretty well is curate an enterprise experience for folks. What we are doing with this release is coming forward in a curative way — these are the cloud native interfaces you need,” he said.
That includes three main elements. For starters if you want to run containers using Kubernetes, the popular container orchestration tool, the company is making the Pivotal/Google/VMware Kubernetes container product announced in August generally available.
As I wrote at the time, describing the roles of the three companies: “Google brings Kubernetes to the table, the open-source container orchestration tool. Pivotal adds the Platform as a Service piece with Cloud Foundry and VMware adds a management layer to pull it all together.”
In addition, the company is offering a serverless product. Serverless computing enables developers to create applications that only access a server when they need one, usually when a specific event triggers the requirement. This saves companies from the cost of continually running a server when they only need it for the event triggers.
The base PCF platform also gets some love with more fundamental Windows Server and VMware NSX-T integration along with a new a new Healthwatch dashboard that provides insights into the health of application running on PCF.
Perhaps the biggest part of the announcement is the release of an app store they are calling the PCF marketplace. It’s designed to provide direct access to cloud services that PCF users can plug directly into the platform. It’s interesting that CoreOS introduced a similar service earlier today for the release of Tectonic 1.8.
Perhaps app stores are the new thing for container-focused platforms, but both companies see it in similar terms. It provides a way to use best of breed cloud services without getting locked into one proprietary public cloud stack and getting stuck with a single vendor for any particular service.
“One of the problems for big enterprises is moving to the public cloud and it’s hard to get started. With our new service catalog, they can connect to something like Google machine learning, and they are good to go,” Watters explained.
The new app store includes connectors for GitHub, Splunk, New Relic and hundreds of others, according to Pivotal
Pivotal is an odd duck in some ways. It’s an independent company that’s raised over $1.7 billion. Its last round in 2016 was for over $650 million.  Yet it falls under the federation of companies that made up EMC, the company that Dell bought in 2016 for $67 billion. Other investors have included GE, Microsoft and Ford.

Featured Image: Raysonho/Wikimedia Commons UNDER A CC0 LICENSE


Amagi, a startup trying to rethink the way TV broadcasters deliver their content, is launching in the United States.
As a TV viewer, you may not see any big issues with the current broadcast infrastructure, but Amagi says satellite delivery is expensive, time-consuming and limits a broadcaster’s ability to customize their content to different geographies.
In contrast, the startup’s Cloudport platform uses cloud infrastructure to deliver the same content. That means that as broadcasters expand globally, they don’t need any satellite or local hardware. It also allows them to create localized content and gives them a single dashboard where they can monitor all their different feeds.
Behind the scenes, Cloudport uses artificial intelligence to automate parts of the process, like detecting black frames. And it allows broadcaster to create their own on-demand streaming channels, too.
In the launch announcement, co-founder K.A. Srinivasan said the costs of traditional satellite playout are “unsustainable.”
“This model also prices out mid-sized broadcasters and content owners who want to launch their own channels,” Srinivasan said. “To navigate the environment, broadcasters and content owners need to leverage cloud technology to stay competitive.”
To be clear, Amagi offers satellite- and fiber-based delivery as well, though it emphasizes the cloud platform. It also combines different approaches, for example by using a hybrid strategy to help Dim Sum TV deliver regionalized feeds throughout South East Asia.
This also sounds like one of those “launches” that acknowledges something that’s already in-progress. Amagi was originally based in Bangalore, but it says it’s now headquartered in New York and also has an office in Los Angeles. And it’s already working with Vice Media and Turner Broadcasting — for example, Vice used the platform to launch new Viceland channel feeds in Africa, New Zealand and elsewhere.

Featured Image: Amagi


Ultrahaptics lets you touch what you see in virtual and augmented reality, or even give a 2D poster 3D feeling. It uses small speaker-like ultrasound wave emitters to give the sensation of pressure and texture when you’re just waving your hands in the open air.



Ultrahaptics CTO Tom Carter demoed the technology onstage today at TechCrunch’s Disrupt Berlin conference. It feels like some combination of static electricity from laundry, a fan and heavy bass without the sound.
He showed how he could allow you to feel a movie poster you pass on the street. In his demo, you could wave your hands in front of a Star Wars: The Last Jedi poster, and touch “the force” — a tingly feeling synced to a lightsaber sound and animation of crackling energy on the poster’s screen.
The startup has raised around $38 million to bring the ultrasound technology to market. It could eventually be built into VR headsets or tabletop models.
I feel the force, demoing Ultrahaptics’ ultrasound emitter Star Wars poster
Carter claims that the technology is totally safe, which you’d hope, considering ultrasound is how we do imaging of babies in the womb. The technology could compete with alternative ways to feel virtual reality, like Tactical Haptics’ Reactive Grip product — a controller with moving surfaces that rub against your hands to give the impression of a fish tugging on a line or you stretching a piece of rubber.
For now, Ultrahaptics can only let you feel a vague sensation of touch, but it’s working on letting you sense different textures, too. Unfortunately, ultrasound won’t ever be strong enough to make it seem like you’re actually holding a complex virtual object like a gun while playing a first-person shooter game. But it could still let you interact with virtual reality or augmented reality without the need for gloves or wearables.



tc_disrupt_berlin-tom-carter-ultrahaptics-4176




tc_disrupt_berlin-tom-carter-ultrahaptics-4181




tc_disrupt_berlin-tom-carter-ultrahaptics-4192




tc_disrupt_berlin-tom-carter-ultrahaptics-4183




tc_disrupt_berlin-tom-carter-ultrahaptics-4184




tc_disrupt_berlin-tom-carter-ultrahaptics-4178




tc_disrupt_berlin-tom-carter-ultrahaptics-4179




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Long-term, Carter imagines cars using the technology to deliver non-distracting information to a driver. And eventually, he believes ultrasound will be paired with voice technology. You’ll be able to sift through data or navigate interfaces with voice, but then touch or manipulate what you call up.
Virtual reality has taken a lot longer to “arrive” than many people expected. Headset penetration is pretty low, great experiences are somewhat scarce and augmented reality that better integrates into life is starting to eclipse VR. But as VR and AR mature, technology like Ultrahaptics could boost immersion and reduce the feeling that you’re divorced from the real world.


Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.adSetOthAT('kventryid=1575163;kvcmsid=tcr:1575163;kvugc=0;kvsubj=981284:979328:983039;kvent=4960730:3310458:5147793');
			window.htmlAdWH('93484989', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDiv2c5ec6354c');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




At the very beginning, there were 15 startups. After two days of incredibly fierce competition, we now have a winner.
Startups participating in the Startup Battlefield have all been hand-picked to participate in our highly competitive startup competition. They all presented in front of multiple groups of VCs and tech leaders serving as judges for a chance to win €42,000 and the coveted Disrupt Cup.
After hours of deliberations, TechCrunch editors pored over the judges’ notes and narrowed the list down to five finalists: Blik, Caspar Health, eTrack Tech, Lia Diagnostics and Wandelbots.
These startups made their way to the finale to demo in front of our final panel of judges, which included: Suranga Chandratillake (Balderton Capital), Tugce Ergul (Angel Labs), Luciana Lixandru (Accel Partners), Matthew Panzarino (TechCrunch) and Mark Schmitz (Lakestar).
And now, meet the Startup Battlefield winner of TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin 2017.
Winner: Lia Diagnostics



The Lia Diagnostics pregnancy test will be the first-ever flushable test to hit the market, offering a more sustainable, disposable, convenient and private way for women to find out if they’re pregnant or not. Unlike traditional tests, Lia’s tests are made from a special paper that will disperse in water and biodegrade.

Read more about Lia Diagnostics in our separate post.
Runner-Up: Blik



Blik aims to modernize the process of knowing what’s in your warehouse, where certain items are stored and where they are in the production process. To do this, it uses a combination of wireless sensors and indoor location tracking.
Read more about Blik in our separate post.





0
SHARES






























		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'organic-thumbnails-a',
			container: 'taboola-organic-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Organic Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});
	




		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'thumbnails-e',
			container: 'taboola-sponsored-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Sponsored Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});


Netflix has been experimenting with TV shows that provide an element of interactivity, allowing viewers to alter the course of the program by choosing among a number of options mid-show. Those have been aimed primarily at kids or young teens, but now the company has confirmed plans to bring the format to adult viewers.
Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos told Bloomberg that it’s preparing an experimental show aimed at older audiences after seeing how younger viewers responded to the shows it created for kids. As with the youth-oriented programming, viewers will be able to choose from a couple of alternate storyline options at key junction points in the show, changing the plot considerable.
Choose-your-own-adventure TV isn’t entirely new – NBC was working on one back in 2008, for instance, and HBO’s Steven Soderbergh project Mosaic is a much more recent example, which launched in November this year alongside a companion app.
Still, it obviously hasn’t taken over from linear storytelling as a popular medium for video content.
Netflix is also dabbling in other formats, including comics; it’s publishing its first along with comic creator Mark Millar and his publishing imprint Millarworld, which it acquired earlier this year. Clearly, Netflix wants to do more than just create original versions of traditional TV and movies to flesh out and differentiate its service – but this remains an adventure I’m not certain a significant number of adult audience members will want to embark upon.


A peer-to-peer payment app that works similarly to Venmo from startup Lydia in France now works with Apple Pay (a feature originally announced in July), making it possible to spend your balance from the app wherever MasterCard and Apple Pay are accepted.
It’s a neat use of Apple Pay to make it possible to do mobile payments without requiring that a user have a credit card – and it can work for users who have an existing physical Lydia MasterCard, which the startup launched last year to make it possible for users to quickly pay with their balance without having to wait for inbound funds to pass the SEPA transfer process.
Users of the app can either add their physical Lydia MasterCard the way you would any other credit card in the Apple Pay settings, but if you haven’t got a card you can also generate a virtual one via the Lydia app itself to provide you with a card number to use of verification during the setup process.
Apple also set live its Apple Pay Cash feature for users in the U.S., which allows users to transfer payments to each other instead of just transact with businesses and merchants. It’s not yet available in other countries, as of yet, but Lydia’s implementation of Apple Pay is an interesting alternative that takes peer-to-peer payments and makes them much more flexible in terms of broader mobile commerce use.


A day after Netflix announced that it will resume production on House of Cards without star Kevin Spacey, the streaming service has dropped another cast member from an original series amid sexual misconduct accusations. A spokesperson for the streaming service confirmed today that Danny Masterson has been dropped from its comedy series, The Ranch, after four women have accused the actor of rape.
“As a result of ongoing discussions, Netflix and the producers have written Danny Masterson out of ‘The Ranch,’” a spokesperson for the company told Variety, “Yesterday was his last day on the show, and production will resume in early 2018 without him.”
The series, which also stars Debra Winger, Sam Elliott and Ashton Kutcher as the other members of a dysfunctional Colorado family, is set to return later this month. Additional episodes will appear in 2018, most likely without Masterson. Whether or not the actor will retain executive producer credit on the series has yet to be addressed by the service. 
For his part, Masterson has denied the allegations, which date back to the early ’00s. The actor, who also co-starred with Kutcher on That 70s Show, provided a statement to The Huffington Post via a lawyer, following the release of this morning’s news. 
“I am obviously very disappointed in Netflix’s decision to write my character off of The Ranch,” the statement reads. “From day one, I have denied the outrageous allegations against me. I have never been charged with a crime, let alone convicted of one.” 
The actor went on to offer vague reference to mounting reports of sexual misconduct that have echoed across the entertainment and other industries, telling the site he looked forward “to clearing my name once and for all.” Masterson is currently under investigation by the Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office. 

Featured Image: John Shearer/Getty Images


A lack of apps wasn’t my biggest issue with the Fitbit Ionic — but it was up there. The inclusion of a third-party app store was one of the ways the company was looking to set the device apart from the rest of its products, and aside from a couple of high profile partners, there really wasn’t much worth mentioning. 
Things are looking a bit better as of this morning. The company noted in a blog post that 60 apps and 100 watch faces have been added or are coming soon to the Ionic ecosystem. They’re not all really notable, but there are enough big names on the list to warrant a second look at Fitbit’s first true smartwatch. 
Some biggies include: The New York Times, Yelp, Uber, Lyft, Nest and United Airlines. Deezer’s also getting in on the action next year, becoming the second notable music service after Pandora to buy in to the Ionic ecosystem. The streaming service is hoping to pick up some new devotees by bringing offline streaming to the watch. In terms of name recognition, it’s a notable step down from a Spotify, but when it comes to taking music and leaving the phone behind, it’s a start at least. 
Some of the new apps arrive at the height of the holiday gift buying season, so perhaps they’ll make the Ionic a more tempting, Android compatible alternative to the Apple Watch. It’s a bummer, of course, that the product didn’t launch with this full an app selection, but if nothing else, it shows that Fitbit’s committed to building the thing up as quickly as possible.
After all, when we spoke with CEO James Park during at the device’s launch, he told us that the company’s purchase of Pebble was essentially a software acquisition. Fitbit knew it would be launching an app ecosystem from scratch, and Pebble’s team had the development tools to make porting an app to its new smartwatch OS a much easier task. Developing for yet another new app store is a pain, but at least Fitbit’s making the job a little simpler. 
Of course, the Ionic still has its share of issues. I’m not really a fan of the hardware design, which, among other things, isn’t nearly flexible enough to fit on smaller wrists, knocking out a big potential user base. But as multiple acquisitions have shown, the company’s all-in here, and perhaps the next generation device will address those issues as the app selection continues to grow and users shift their focus toward smart devices.


Instagram is copying Snapchat’s Memories feature and going a step further, letting you create a permanent home to show off formerly ephemeral content. Rolling out globally today on iOS and Android, Instagram Stories will now automatically Archive your Stories to a private part of your profile when they disappear 24 hours after being posted.
You’ll then be able to create Stories Highlights, which are named collections of your past Stories that show up in a new horizontal bar across the top of your profile. You could make Highlights of a specific vacation, all your selfies, or the cutest dogs you’ve seen, while brands will surely use it to highlight different product lines and ad campaigns.
“As more and more people adopt Stories, we realized that the profile has become less and less representative of you and your life” an Instagram spokesperson tells me. “And yet the profile is one of the top destinations on Instagram – it’s a powerful space for self-expression and feeling closer to others. But up until now there was no way to keep your favorite stories or add them to your profile – we wanted to fix that.”
There are three important value-adds to these features
Save Your Work – Archive and Highlights could make investing time in creating Stories feel less wasteful. It might have seemed silly going through the work of shooting Stories and jazzing them up with captions and stickers if they’d disappear the next day. This could make Stories appeal to older demographics whose friends might not be so addicted to Instagram that they open to watch Stories every single day. Highlights will surely be well utilized by brands who pour resources into shooting Stories, and now can create product or campaign specific collections.
Preserve Your Storage – Now you won’t have to worry about expending your phone’s storage space by downloading your old Stories. Instead, Instagram will save them in the cloud, where you can privately view, publicly share, or re-download them later. For younger users on older phones with limited space, that could be a life saver.
Expressing Your Identity – Instagram has never before let you share without that content being visible on the homescreen to your followers. That meant it could feel like you were spamming friends if you wanted to share niche content, deterring content creation. Stories Highlights will let you exhibit the different angles of yourself. You could create a Highlight of just your cat, your food, your favorite art, or your professional life.
TechCrunch broke the news of Instagram launching an Archive feature for your permanent feed posts in December which was designed to let people temporarily or permanently hide their past feed posts in order to deter people from impulsively deleting content they later want back.
Instagram Stories Archive and Highlights one-up Snapchat Memories, which only lets your repost old clips to your current Story. There’s still no permanent content on your Snapchat profile. Rather than forcing ephemerality, Instagram is making it optional to appeal to a wider audience. It’s a similar choice to YouTube with its new Stories product Reels, which also don’t expire after 24 hours.
Archive so you never lose your Stories

Archive will be activated automatically for everyone soon, and you’ll get a notification when it opens to you with the option to turn it off. Stories clips are saved in the same quality you uploaded them at. You can find the Archive on your Profile and switch between the Stories Archive and Posts Archive. Archived posts appear in reverse chronological order with date stamps for clarity. You can’t download your entire Archive at once, but instead will have to download individual clips. Archived posts can be reshared to Highlights, Direct Messages, the feed, or downloaded and then pushed to your current Story.
Users were often already downloading their Stories before they expired, but often might forget, causing them to lose their content. Now they don’t have to think about it.
Highlight your quirks or your products

To create a Highlight, tap New on the left side of your profile, choose Stories from your archive, choose a cover image for the Highlight, and name it. That Highlight will appear as a Stories-style bubble atop the profile and play like one big Story when tapped by one of your followers. They’ll remain visible unless you delete them, and you can remove clips but not reorder them.
You can add up to 100 photos or videos to a Story Highlight, and there’s no limit to how many Highlights you can create. Similarly, if you add more than 100 clips to your current Story, the first one will be removed and added to your Archive. And if you don’t want any trace of your old Stories available privately to you, you can opt out and turn off Stories Archive.
Together, these features could further encourage Instagram Stories’ 300 million users to post more about a wider variety of content, knowing it doesn’t have to disappear.


More than $3 billion has been raised through so-called initial coin offerings so far in 2017. Yet while numerous of these have already proven to be good old-fashioned scams, regulators in Washington have remained relatively quiet aside from warning issuers that at least some coins sold in ICOs could be considered securities; publishing a statement saying celebrity endorsements of ICOs may be unlawful without appropriate disclosures around compensation; and bringing two cases against fraudulent coin offerings.
That wait-and-see stance looks to evolve into much more action in 2018, suggest those who’ve either spoken with the Securities and Exchange Commission or otherwise have a vested interest in its rulings. (The SEC isn’t commenting publicly on its specific plans.)
Just Friday, a new division of the agency that’s focused on ICOs filed charges against an outfit called PlexCoin that reportedly raised $15 million from thousands of investors by promising a 1,354 percent return in 29 days or less. The person spearheading the effort — Dominic Lacroix — is a serial violator of SEC laws, says the agency, which describes him in its filing as a “recidivist securities law violator in Canada,” so this one might have been easy pickings.
Still, Ethereum co-founder Joe Lubin told us onstage last month that he is among other blockchain experts who has spoken to the SEC, and he described the staffers with whom he has talked as  “very interested people who are trying to understand the context that’s evolving around them . . . They are certainly in information-gathering mode.”
I fought the law and the law won
Without question, the SEC isn’t blind to the ICO fever that’s sweeping the globe and has already prompted regulators in China and South Korea to ban them outright — and regulators in Switzerland and Singapore and Japan to meanwhile welcome them with open arms.
Former Wall Street attorney turned SEC Chairman Jay Clayton said at a recent meeting at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that the agency is planning to pursue offerings that violate securities laws, telling those gathered that, “Where we see fraud and where we see people engaging in offerings that are not registered, we are going to pursue them because these types of things have a destabilizing effect on the market.”
It’s a stronger statement than Clayton offered in September, when, speaking at an event in Washington, he said it “would shock me if you don’t see pump-and-dump schemes in the initial coin offering space . . .This is an area where I’m concerned about what’s going to happen to retail investors.”
In these coin offerings, investors typically pay using bitcoin and other virtual currencies. In the PlexCoin case, Lacroix was accepting credit card payments via PayPal, Stripe and Shopify, but he raised the bulk of the $15 million via ethereum, Litecoin and other cryptocurrencies, which can be harder to trace and recover because they’re sent outside the traditional financial system.
In addition to past violations, Lacroix was an easy target for the SEC owing to the sensational language PlexCoin used to entice potential investors, telling them to obtain its “tokenized currency” so they could “Take control of [THEIR] money!”
Equally suspect: telling investors that the identity of PlexCorps’ executives had to be kept hidden to avoid poaching by competitors and for privacy concerns.
Words do concern those who’d like to see regulators work with — and not shut down — ICOs more broadly. Lubin, who today runs ConsenSys, a studio building decentralized applications, told us onstage, for example, that his “legal team and all of our legal advisors are not comfortable with the term ICO,” because it sounds a lot like IPO. “There are different types of token launches. Some of them can be tokenized securities; some of them can utility or protocol tokens. If you’re issuing a utility token based on your work, the SEC would not deem that a security.”
It isn’t just the acronym that concerns him. Lubin argued that if issuers use language “that the SEC believes will cause you to lead token buyers into a purchase with the expectation that they’ll make some profits off the agency of others, that can [also] be deemed a security.”
I needed money ’cause I had none
But former SEC commission Joe Grundfest clearly thinks it a joke to suggest that investors are buying tokens of any kind without assuming they’ll profit from them. Speaking with Dealbook early last week, Grundfest, who today teaches on law and business at Stanford, said it was clear that those buying tokens are buying them with the hope that their value will rise, full stop.
He added that few of the projects raising money through ICOs truly have a need for the structure. In fact, he called ICOs the “most pervasive, open and notorious violation of federal securities laws since the Code of Hammurabi.
“It’s more than the extent of the violation,” he’d said. “It’s the almost comedic quality of the violation.”
Perhaps it’s because Grundfest so publicly wondered about the dearth of SEC enforcements that the SEC took action this past Friday against PlexCoin. Either way, don’t be surprised if a kind of sweep is coming.
Speaking on that same panel with us last month, venture capitalist Rebecca Lynn of Canvas Ventures compared the current ICO environment to the earliest days of online lending, before regulators descended onto the scene.
Lynn — who led an early investment in the online lender LendingClub while with her previous employer, Morgenthaler Ventures — remembers well the language that the company and competitors like Prosper used and the boldness with which they launched into the world, intent on cutting out the middleman.
“It wasn’t that different,” she said. “Disintermediation of the banks. Frictionless. Peer-to-peer. Not regulated. And guess what? They became regulated, and Prosper got hit with a huge class-action lawsuit, because people lost a lot of money early [on].” (LendingClub has more recently been hit with a class-action shareholder lawsuit, too.)
“I don’t see this as different,” she said. “ICOs will absolutely be regulated,” she said. “We’ve seen this game before.”
Shriram Bhashyam, co-founder of the secondary marketplace EquityZen (and a former securities attorney) agrees, saying the “steady drumbeat” of small actions we’ve seen from the SEC is likely just the beginning, and that while the SEC has been picking off the “outright fraud and scams” and “low-hanging fruit,” what the agency is likely looking for right now are the “stronger cases that will send a message” that it’s establishing rules of the road.
At this point, Grundfest would hardly be alone in welcoming them. Even Bradley Tusk, a political strategist known for helping companies navigate the regulatory waters, says a kind of regulatory road map is overdue at this point. “I’m usually the guy fighting these things, but with ICOs, it’s such a confusing landscape and no one knows what the rules are, and so much of the efficacy of the system is based on trust.”
It’s “hard to know what the f_ck is going on over there” at the SEC, says Tusk. “But not only would rules provide consumers some basic protections, he says, but they might also ensure that the “bad actors and fly-by-nights” don’t blow it for everyone else.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin


Nissan is the latest automaker to make its autonomous vehicle testing intentions clear – it’ll begin a pilot of self-driving Nissan Leaf electric vehicles that can be hailed using a smartphone app much like an Uber or a Lyft, starting in March on Japanese roads.
This isn’t something Nissan is doing alone – it’s working with Japanese software maker DeNA to create the autonomous ride-hailing service. It’s also hoping to put a commercial fleet of Leafs into service by the early 2020s, per the Wall Street Journal.
That’s a more general timeframe than some of its competitors have offered up – and further out, too. GM and its subsidiary Cruise announced last week that they’d have a service ready to roll by 2019 based on their current progress, and Ford was among the earliest to set a deadline for its own service launch, pegging 2021 for an operating fleet.
Nissan will start with two Leaf vehicles modified with autonomous vehicle sensors and compute on roads, with staff actively monitoring pick up and drop-off locations, and an open application for participation in the test program available to the public.
One of the more interesting aspects of Nissan’s test is that users will be able to not only specify exactly where they want to go, but also use general written queries like “I want to eat pancakes” and have the car automatically choose a relevant destination, according to the WSJ. Building some degree of autonomous destination selection is a UX differentiator that could help Nissan set its service apart ahead of the launch of all of these competing services.


CoreOS announced Tectonic 1.8, its latest update of the popular Kubernetes container orchestration tool. It features a new open services catalog that enables DevOps personnel to plug in external services into Kubernetes with ease.
As Rob Szumski, Tectonic product manager at CoreOS pointed out in a company blog post announcing the new version, public clouds offer lots of benefits around ease of use, but they can end up locking you in, in some cases to a proprietary set of tools.
This is precisely what the new Open Cloud Services catalog is designed to resolve. Instead of using those proprietary tools, you get more open choices and that should make it easier to move between clouds or a hybrid environment.
“New for Tectonic 1.8, CoreOS Open Cloud Services offer the same near-effortless operations customers have come to expect from managed cloud offerings with a difference. Unlike proprietary cloud services, Open Cloud Services are first-class, fully automated Kubernetes resources running on the CoreOS Tectonic platform,” Szumski wrote in the blog post.

CoreOS is aiming to keep the whole process as open and portable as possible, so that customers can choose where and how they want to deploy their applications. What’s more, the Open Cloud Catalog is built right into the Tectonic console, making it simple to enable the external services (or disable them as you choose).
Among the earliest additions to the Open Cloud Services offering are etcd, Prometheus and Vault.
The Open Cloud Service Catalog was only part of the Tectonic 1.8 release, which puts it in line with the open source version released at the end of September. As CoreOS points out, this is a pure upstream version of Kubernetes, meaning it’s not a fork, something the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, the organization that manages the Kubernetes open source project has been striving for from members.
It will also automatically update the Docker container engine, which developers use to create the containers that make up an application. Operations uses Kubernetes to manage and deploy the containers. That means, it’s taking care of both sides of the container DevOps equation for you.
The latest version will be shipping towards the end of the year and the company says it will be a smooth and automatic update from Tectonic 1.7 for existing CoreOS customers.

Featured Image: Stan Olszewski/SOSKIphoto/Flickr UNDER A Copyright LICENSE


So how far out are flying cars that you can actually hail via an app, get inside and be whisked off to your destination? Germany based Volocopter reckons a commercial service powered by its electric vertical-take-off-and-landing aircraft could be up and running before 2020.
“We think that in two or three years we’ll have the first commercial applications somewhere in the world with our service,” said co-founder and CIO Alex Zosel, who was speaking on stage here at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin.
“This is not so far away,” he added.



Zosel suggested the first service is likely to be a pretty targeted one though, that likely aims to tackle a particular mobility issue — such as a traffic blackspot.
“I believe strongly the first commercial application will be a point to point solution over a bottleneck somewhere where you have a lot of congestions or you have a river or something else. And then you have some aircrafts — like 10 or 20 aircrafts — flying point to point and shuttling people… This will come really fast.”
Also speaking on the panel was Yann de Vries of Atomico, which invests in the rival Lilium VTOL electric aircraft. He painted a picture of flying cars revolutionizing mobility by collapsing city to city distance via a network of speedy hops.
“Within 15 minutes, with Lilium, you can be within a 70km radius. So think about all the possibilities these offer,” he suggested, adding: “You can never do this with a car, even with autonomous vehicles, with all the traffic on the roads.”
“Here you can build a high speed, mesh network of 300km per hour links to any point that’s required, right. The use case is you land from London into JFK and then you can be in Manhattan… less than 10mins later.”
de Vries couldn’t put a timeline on his portfolio company getting its flying taxis up in the air commercially but also suggested it’s going to be sooner rather than later. Or, as he put it: “several years, not decades”.
What about landing spots? He suggested that, initially at least, flying car companies will be able to leverage existing helipads — claiming that in the US 90 per cent of the population is within 15 minutes of an existing pad.
Though he added that the big vision for the tech remains for it to power a “mass transportation market”.


Swedish lock maker Assa Abloy completed its acquisition of August Home this week. The deal, first announced back in October, has the U.S.-based smart lock startup rolling into the world’s largest lock maker, though the company says it will continue to operate as a somewhat independent entity under the much bigger brand. 
“One of the things I liked most about Assa Abloy as a potential buy is they operate like a Berkshire Hathaway as a big holding company,” August CEO Jason Johnson told TechCrunch ahead of the announcement. “When they buy a company, they leave it independent as a standalone unit. That means that our team can continue running August and really nothing changes. We just went from having 40 investors to having one investor.”
The deal, which has passed the requisite regulatory scrutiny, will give August a chance to expand beyond North American shores. The company has had a fair bit of growth here in the States, including a recent $25 million Series C and a partnership with Walmart, but scaling a hardware product internationally is a pretty universally tricky pursuit. Those issues are only compounded by the different lock configurations found in different parts of the world. 
At the very least, Assa Abloy has some very deep pockets, and appears keen on bringing August’s smart home connectivity to a broader worldwide audience. Johnson told us that he’s unable to disclose the specifics of the deal, as “Assa Abloy has a long history of not disclosing that,” but noted the company’s long history of acquisitions and added that, “our shareholders are extremely pleased with the outcome.”
Johnson will remain as August’s CEO for the time being, and he adds the company’s new owners will grow the team, as it looks to new markets. August will also be working directly with Assa Abloy brands, most notably Yale, in order to incorporate its smarts into other products. The partnership should also go a ways toward improving August’s lock hardware, which has received mixed reviews since launching three years ago.


Consumer spending on all mobile app stores will surpass $110 billion in 2018, according to a new report from App Annie, out today, which forecasts the state of the app ecosystem for next year. The $110 billion figure represents a 30 percent increase from the year prior, the firm also said, adding that the majority of the overall spend will come from games, as before.
However, the introduction of in-app subscriptions – a newer monetization model for apps – is starting to have an impact on non-games’ share of consumer spend. Though games still dominate in terms of overall dollars spent, the share for non-game apps will increase in 2018 as its growth is now outpacing that for games, App Annie said.
In addition, the report called out China, India and Brazil as top countries to watch in 2018. China’s growth rate, in particular, will “significantly outpace” the rate for the rest of the world. That’s even more notable given that China is already the top market today for iOS App Store consumer spend.
India and Brazil, meanwhile, will see time spent on Android phones increasing in 2018, continuing the trend from this year which saw 50 percent and 30 percent growth, respectively, over 2017. India also has seen a big jump in Google Play downloads, coinciding with the launch of Reliance Jio’s network in September 2016. And the emerging market of Brazil still has room for further growth since – like India – it has a large population who does not yet own a smartphone.
Other changes impacting the app ecosystem include the app store revamps from both Apple and Google Play this year. In 2018, these efforts to improve app discovery will continue to gain traction, prompting increased downloads of entertainment apps and others meant for users’ leisure time. This increased discovery will also lead to a rise in in-app purchases, App Annie said. Meanwhile, needs-based apps and utilities will still be found more often by app store searches and word-of-mouth recommendations.
The report also called out a particular category of apps – AR apps – as seeing increased adoption in 2018.
For example, Niantic’s upcoming Harry Potter: Wizards Unite will generate excitement for AR gaming, while apps that layer additional context over the real world, including Google Translate and MLB.com At Bat, will see widespread traction with users.

Another category of apps that has driven a large amount of consumer spend this year is streaming video apps. Year-to-date through October 2017, streaming video apps have led to an increase of over 85 percent in consumer spend on iOS, and over 70 percent on Google Play. This space is becoming increasingly fragmented – in the U.S., for example,  the share of those had four or more of the top video streaming apps installed on their iPhones increased year-over-year to more than 30 percent in October.

The report delved into other trends for the following year, including mobile’s growing role as a part of e-commerce transactions, including mobile food ordering, and more.
It also mentioned Amazon Alexa’s rise, in terms of its mobile app’s presence on the app stores. For example, App Annie said that downloads of the Amazon Alexa companion app trended upwards after the October 2016 release of the sub-$50 Echo Dot, with other big spikes around the holidays and Amazon Prime Day.

The report says these same trends will continue next year, with spikes around sales holidays and other device deals, like the recently release of the $49 Google Home Mini.
The full report is available from App Annie’s website.


Playdots, the company that lets gamers play with Dots, will soon have a new CEO as co-founder and current COO Patrick Moberg takes over for co-founder Paul Murphy. Murphy lead the company as CEO since the founding in 2013 and will stay with Playdots as a board member.
Murphy and Moberg co-founded Playdots in 2013 and in 2015 led the company to spin out of betaworks on the back of $10 million in funding from Greycroft Partners, Tencent and others.
Murphy is seemingly leaving the company in a good state of affairs, explaining in a post on Medium that the company is profitable, scaling and committed to releasing new games. He told TechCrunch that his plan to step down has been in the works for several months and the company has already been operating under the new leadership to ensure a smooth transition.
Challenges lie ahead for Playdots and its new CEO in Patrick Moberg but he’s been with the company since the start. Murphy tells TechCrunch that the two have always worked side-by-side, making decisions together. Initially Moberg focused on the game while Murphy handled the business but as the company grew, Moberg spent more time with the company strategy.
Moberg points to balancing the company’s creativity with its business as the biggest challenge ahead.
“Creativity produces risk and business aims to reduce risk,” Moberg said. ” To succeed in the short term, that dichotomy needs to be understood and calibrated against by the ‘decision makers’, but the long term goal is to lay the groundwork for a methodology where that process is a shared responsibility of every person at Dots. Communicating and maintaining such an organization is a really difficult challenge.”
As for outgoing CEO Paul Murphy, he plans on staying close to the gaming industry while spending more time investing in Europe. And staying close to the gaming industry is probably for the best. He seems to be walking away with deep insights saying the main thing he learned while at Playdots was “highly differentiated products are exponentially easier and less expensive to market” which is something most mobile game makers would be wise to remember — and there’s now an ex-CEO who believes that and is potentially on the market.


A year after launching, the IBM Watson-sponsored AI XPrize has been whittled down to 59 teams. That number’s down from 147 in May, which, in turn, was pulled from a list of 10,000 signups. The goal was to halve the number this time out, but a handful of teams have fallen out of the running of their own volition. 
The four-year competition is the first “open” one from the XPrize Foundation, meaning there’s really no specific end-point here. Instead, each team was asked to solve a problem using artificial intelligence, be it Watson or another system. In fact, only 20 percent of the teams are using or considering using IBM’s AI for the their project, according to the foundation. 
All of that’s made it a fairly tough competition to judge, along with the fact that the subject matter runs the gamut of, well, just about everything, including Health and Wellness, Learning and Human Potential, Civil Society, Space and New Frontiers, Shelter and Infrastructure Energy and Resources. 
Further complicating things is the fact that the four-year competition also includes potential wild card candidates, who are able to enter the competition late. That’s a first for XPrize and a result of the organization’s attempts to inject some new blood into a rapidly changing AI landscape. 
“AI is moving at such a fast pace, and a number of breakthroughs will develop to allow teams to address problems that may not have been addressed the year before,” competition leader Amir Banifatemi told TechCrunch. “We want the competition to remain fresh and agile, in terms of teams to still participate if they think they can still solve the problem.”
Even so, the team of 30 judges have managed to winnow the team number down to 59, spread out over 14 countries. The teams are judged on their technology, human and machine collaboration and the perceived impact of the problem they’ve chosen to solve. 
The list also includes a “top 10,” who will be showcasing their projects at the Neural Information Processing Systems conference in Long Beach this week. Two teams will be chosen from that top 10 and awarded a prize stipend — though beyond that, they don’t really get much advantage over the other teams still in the competition. 
The top 10 includes eight teams from North America and two from Europe. Those projects range from wearables designed to tackle the opioid crisis to virtual tutors. The full prize purse, provided by IBM (which plays no role in the actual judging), is $5 million. The grand prize winner gets $3 million, second prize gets $1 million and third prize gets $500,000, with additional $500,000 milestone prizes being awarded in 2018 and 2019.


Smartphones have made flipping through photo albums a relic of the past.
It’s easy to peruse and share a digital photo archive, but some people miss looking through photos while sitting next to family and friends.
At least that’s what motivated serial entrepreneur Alan Chan to create Joy, a smart photo album.
He says that he realized “family photo-sharing is broken” after his daughter was born two years ago. “Printing photo books is very laborious and time-consuming.”
So Chan has raised $7 million to build a better photo product. The round is led by Obvious Ventures and consumer investor David Heller. This brings the total funding to $9.5 million.
Chan believes Joy is better than the digital photo frames or the viewing experience of an Apple TV.  It has a 13.3″ full HD touchscreen and can sync photos from a range of services, including Google, Facebook and Instagram.
It’s not just photos, but also supports video. Users can add voice notes to correspond with the experiences.
But it’s not cheap. The newly launched device will set you back $499. Whether people will pay top dollar for a product whose mission is fairly narrow, compared with other, similarly priced options available to them, is another sizable question.

Chan claims it’s worth the money because it “creates the ultimate story-telling device with your family.” He says that other products only show you one photo at a time.
Heller says that he invested because it “solves a major consumer pain point and the addressable market is massive.”
Joy, founded roughly a year ago in San Francisco, plans to eventually build additional products at varied price points.


Have you ever bought something only to see it go on sale the next day?
It may seem like bad luck, but you’re often still entitled to get that discount. Some retailers and credit card companies will even guarantee price drop refunds for up to 90 days.
But it can be a hassle to keep track of price changes and to follow through and get your money back. A handful of sites have been springing up to handle this on your behalf. One of those is Earny. 
Earny’s app syncs with your inbox and identifies receipts. It then monitors prices at Amazon, Wal-Mart, Target, Best Buy and others. Earny will contact the retailers to ensure that the money goes back on your credit card, or arrives via a check. Earny takes a 25% commission for its efforts.
The Santa Monica, California-based startup is now raising $9 million to accelerate its growth. The latest round was led by Mayfield with participation from Comcast Ventures and Science Inc. Earny previously raised about $2.5 million. 
The startup is also announcing that it will be automating credit card price protection claims for all Visa cards. Earny says it tracks about 50 million items from the top 35 retailers.
The business says its users end up getting about 5% of their money back, on average. The most common refunds are for electronics and clothes.
When asked if the retailers would be frustrated by Earny’s model, CEO Oded Vakrat insists that it’s just the opposite.
Vakrat claims Earny “reduces item return rates because customers are more satisfied from their purchase.” He believes they are “three times more likely to purchase again from the same retailer.”
Mayfield partner Rishi Garg says he invested in Earny because he was “impressed with their unique take on customer advocacy and the comfort they bring to shoppers that their purchases are protected.”
Earny plans to use the funding to build out its product and expand into travel. Starting next year, for example, users will be able to get discounted rates at hotels.

Featured Image: megaflopp/Shutterstock


Nvidia just rolled out a very interesting selection of software for its over-the-top Shield TV box in China – Wii games, running in 1080p resolution, including New Super Mario Bros. Wii, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and PUNCH-OUT!!. It’s only in China, where Shield TV is launching for the first time, but it’s an official tie-up between Nvidia and Nintendo, which could offer some hope, however narrow, that this could make its way to other Shield hardware around the world.
Remastered Wii games on the Shield TV retail for around $10 per title, and other games including Metroid Prime and Super Mario Galaxy will eventually make their way to the platform, too.
Nvidia and Nintendo have partnered before now, of course – the graphics hardware maker created the processor that powers the Nintendo Switch portable hybrid game console. China has also been a tricky market for Nintendo to operate within thanks to a ban on video game consoles first instituted in 2000 and lifted only in 2015.
Lest you hope that Shield TV playing Wii games could be a sign that ports arrive on Android more broadly, take note that the Shield TV Nvidia is selling in China is “completely localized,” with its own store and local content and Baidu’s DuerOS and iQIYI media service, so there’s a lot of this that is going to be totally unique to China.


Pi Charging, the company that won at TechCrunch Disrupt SF with its wireless charging tech, has closed a series A round of $11.4 million dollars. They disclosed the news for the first time while updating the audience at Disrupt Berlin on their progress since winning in SF.
For those who might’ve missed it: Pi Charging is building a device (the namesake Pi Charger) that lives on your tabletop and can wirelessly charge multiple devices placed around it at once. It’s sort of like a wireless charging pad… minus the need to place anything on a pad. As long as your device is compatible and within about a foot in any direction of the Pi Charger, it should be charging.
Here’s their demo from Disrupt:



 
I spoke to Pi co-founder John Macdonald about the round, who told me a bit more: the round was led by Foundry Group, with Foundry’s Ryan McIntyre joining Pi’s board. It also brings new investor Silicon Valley Bank into the mix, with existing investors Uncork, Nextview Ventures, ENIAC, and E14 Fund returning for another round. Pi Charging had previously raised around $3M.
John also tells me that they’re still on track with the same goals they announced back in September: they’re aiming to ship the Pi Charger sometime in 2018, at a price point under $200.
So why raise? Macdonald tells me the company is in the middle of a significant expansion, and that they expect to double the size of the team (from 8 people, currently) within about eight months.
Meanwhile, he also noted that they’ve begun work on a second product; he declined to say much about it, but confirmed that it’s still in the wireless power space and built around the same wireless tech they came up with for the Pi Charger.


Intuit, the company behind products like QuickBooks and TurboTax, today announced that it has acquired TSheets, a time-tracking service and employee scheduling app with over 35,000 customers. The $340 million acquisition price consists of both cash and other considerations and Intuit expects the acquisition to close in the second half of 2018.
TSheets launched back in 2006 and now has offices in both Eagle, Idaho and Sydney, Australia. The company has raised a total of about $15 million thanks to a Series A round led by Summit Partners.
There’s an obvious overlap between the markets for QuickBooks and TSheets, both of which mostly target small to medium businesses. Indeed, Intuit tells us that the companies already share 12,000 customers. Clearly this isn’t a play to acquire new customers, but to build out the QuickBooks ecosystem and it’s worth noting that TSheets already offers an integration with QuickBooks.
“With TSheets as part of Intuit, we have a tremendous opportunity to provide millions of small businesses and self-employed a smarter, simplified way to quickly and accurately track their time, send invoices, run payroll, and understand profitability by project,” said Alex Chriss, Senior Vice President and chief product and platform officer for Intuit’s Small Business and Self-Employed Group. “This acquisition will unlock critical upstream data that will allow us to create friction-less experiences that remove work, make it easier to get paid, and provide valuable insights into the health of our users’ businesses.”
In talking to Intuit over the last few months, this idea of removing friction is very much at the heart of the company’s current product plans, especially with regard to QuickBooks.
After the acquisition closes, Intuit plans to re-brand TSheets as Time Capture and turn TSheet’s Eagle, Idaho office into an Intuit office.

Featured Image: Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images


Revolut is merging traditional banking and cryptocurrency to let you buy, sell, trade, and hold Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ether alongside 25 world fiat currencies. The $90 million-funded mobile banking startup is trying to erase the divide between old and new money.
Revolut‘s CEO Nikolay Storonsky announced on stage today at TechCrunch’s Disrupt Berlin conference that cryptocurrency trading will open to all Revolut users on Thursday. If you’re spending money through Revolut’s debit card and run out of fiat currency, it will automatically convert the necessary amount of cryptocurrency to fiat to fund your transaction.
“Despite being one of the hottest trends in the world right now, getting exposure to cryptocurrency has notoriously been time-consuming and expensive,” Storonsky writes.



The move comes as cryptocurrency becomes increasingly legitimate in the eyes of the world, following bitcoin blowing past $10,000 per coin, and traditional futures exchanges preparing to allow bitcoin futures trading this month.
While cryptocurrency could be seen as a niche distraction from Revolut’s core business, but Storonsky feels that crypto is going mainstream and will quickly become a critical part of all banking. He cited that during Revolut’s week-long crypto beta test, 10,000 customers traded $1 million in cryptocurrency.
Revolut CEO Nikolay Storonsky
When the feature opens up to all users Thursday, Revolut promises to offer the most competitive rates on crypto transactions, charging only a flat, up-front 1.5 percent without other hidden fees that can add up to 5 percent to 9 percent on other platforms. Customers will be able to buy through all of Revolut’s base currencies so there’s no need for extra foreign exchange fees if you want to buy in Swiss Francs, for example.

In just two years, Revolut has signed up over 1,000,000 users in Europe and processed 42 million transactions, and claims to have saved customers $160 million in foreign exchange fees. It’s growing fast, doubling the rate of new customer sign-ups versus three months ago. While there are plenty of players in the modernized debit card market like N26 and Monzo, Revolut also lets you send up to €5,000 per month in 16 currencies without any fee.
As these startups jockey for position, they’re all searching for differentiators. Embracing cryptocurrency could lure fintech early adopters to Revolut.

Featured Image: Antana/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE


Coronet, a startup that launched as part of the TechCrunch Disrupt Battlefield competition in New York City in 2015, announced the release of the latest version of its cloud security product aimed at SMBs today. The new system introduces a layer of autonomy which lets IT or security personnel define a set of rules and the system takes care of the rest without any additional intervention.
The Coronet SecureCloud has been designed to be as simple as possible, Coronet co-founder and CISO Dror Liwer told TechCrunch. This means that the system makes sure any device an employee is using is secure, while validating the user’s identity, making sure the network is safe and preventing anything malicious on a device from spreading to a cloud service.
It defaults to the new fully autonomous platform, meaning you simply set it and forget it. Whereas many security systems funnel issues to a security team, this one is designed to detect and mitigate the threat in real time, Liwer explained. If there is an issue, the employee won’t be able to log on unless they fix the problem, so a device infected with malware wouldn’t be allowed on the company Dropbox account until the problem is resolved. This would prevent the malware from spreading from the device to files stored in the cloud.
As an example, just last week Apple had a huge security vulnerability in OSX High Sierra that would have allowed anyone to log onto an unpatched machine. Apple released a patch within 24 hours and it was imperative that people get the update. Using Coronet SecureCloud, the system would recognize the patch is available and not let the user log on to their system without updating, thereby forcing them into compliance.
It wouldn’t require an email or any communication or action on behalf of a small or medium business IT department. This would all happen automatically and without a lot of pain to the end user. All they would know is they need to update the OS to continue.
Of course, there is some work up front to define the rules, but there are pre-configured rules for popular cloud software packages like Office 365, Box, Slack and Dropbox. Companies can adapt those rules for their company or leave the defaults.
Security is growing ever more complex and tracking all of the latest vulnerabilities and patches takes trained people. It’s hard enough for an enterprise with deep resources to find them and keep all employees up to date. It’s even more difficult for small- to medium-sized businesses (SMBs).
The Coronet SecureCloud autonomous security is available starting today.

Featured Image: vertigo3d/Getty Images


Ijad Madisch, co-founder and CEO of ResearchGate – the so-called Facebook for scientists – shot down an accusation about a questionable way it may have acquired users in the past. The question was raised by a panel moderator, TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher, at the Disrupt Berlin 2017 conference this morning.
According to Butcher’s multiple sources, ResearchGate had scraped rival Academia.edu in order to spam their users in an effort to get them to sign up to ResearchGate.
Madisch, who didn’t flinch at the accusation that he paid an agency to scrape and spam users, denied this was the case.
“No, for sure not,” he said, in response to the question.
When Butcher pressed on why his sources would have told him such a thing, Madisch pointed a finger not too subtly right back at his competitors.
“We have 100 million visitors a month now,” he said. “I would do maybe the same if I would be number two.”
Plus, he added, “you have to find stories that make me nervous on stage.”
Butcher says he trusts his sources on this matter, but they’ve declined to go on record. He still felt he needed to ask the CEO directly, however.
Berlin-based ResearchGate this year raised $52.6 million in Series D funding, bringing its total raise to date to over $100 million, but is not yet profitable despite saying back in 2014 that it would be profitable with job ads by the end of the year. But a financial statement from 2015 showed that the site went from losing  €5.4m in 2014 to losing €6.2m in 2015, Butcher noted.
The CEO said the site was now on “break even” track, though when that would be the case, he couldn’t pinpoint.
He spoke of plans for its advertising business, which would allow vendors – like say, a microscope manufacturer – to advertise their products next to scholarly articles where scientists had mentioned they used the product in question.
In addition, to the profitability questions and other allegations, the network for scholarly articles is facing a number of challenges in a competitive market where it’s up against an open source, scholarly hub set up by academics – something that Madisch also seemed unfazed by, when asked.
“I think we’re on different horizons,” he said. “We have grown quite a lot over the last years. We have activity on our network that no one has produced in an academic environment.” Plus, he said, he didn’t necessarily think that open source on its own is a better solution.
More recently, ResearchGate has been accused of infringing copyright on a massive scale with publishers seeking removal of millions of papers on its site, via a lawsuit.
The founder claimed that it’s not the only site faces these sort of problems. Academia.edu had takedown notices, too, he said, shrugging off the issue.


Kespry, the industrial drone startup, announced a fresh infusion of cash today in the form of a $33M Series C. It brings the total raised to over $61M across the three rounds.
While today’s investment was led by G2VP, it also included some strategic investors with Shell Technology Ventures, Cisco Ventures and ABB Ventures joining in. Shell comes on board as Kespry tries to expand its market into oil and gas.
Daniel Jeavons, general manager for advanced analytics at Shell sees solutions like drones as part of Shell’s efforts to identify and invest in advanced digital technology. “The use of industrial drones powered by AI and machine learning is a game changer for the energy sector. It will make industrial work more efficient and safer, while empowering workers with powerful new digital tools and important, future-focused skills,” Jeavons said in a statement.
The company is focusing strictly on industrial use cases like mining and aggregates, insurance claims, construction and more recently, oil and gas. It has 150 mining customers and 200 overall, according to company CEO George Mathew, who came on board at the beginning of this year after a stint as Alteryx COO and president.
Mathew sees the industry at a pivotal moment where companies are beginning to see the value of industrial drones, which is leading to a mainstream level of adoption in these sectors. That’s because it tends to be safer, more efficient and more accurate to use drones than traditional methods.
Mathew is careful to distinguish his company’s approach to that of hobbyists or even prosumers who might use drone flyovers in real estate or wedding photography scenarios. While he sees these as perfectly valid drone use cases, it’s really not an area of the market that interests Kespry.
He says one of the big differentiators is his company’s use of data and machine learning. So for instance, they layer on machine learning algorithms to understand what roof damage looks like after wind, rain or hail damage. They then use that data to determine if a roof needs replacing or if it can be fixed, all automatically without having a claims adjuster climb on the roof in dangerous conditions.
The company currently has around 100 employees and Mathew expects that to double in the next year with the new money. He also is looking at more international expansion and developing more channel partners to help push their solution in their target markets.


In a world that requires increasing amounts of compute power to handle the resource-intensive demands of workloads like artificial intelligence and machine learning, IBM enters the fray with its latest generation Power chip, the Power9.
The company intends to sell the chips to third-party manufacturers and to cloud vendors including Google. Meanwhile, it’s releasing a new computer powered by the Power9 chip, the AC922 and it intends to offer the chips in a service on the IBM cloud. “We generally take our technology to market as a complete solution,” Brad McCredie, IBM fellow and vice president of cognitive systems  explained.
The company has designed the new chip specifically to improve performance on common AI frameworks like Chainer, TensorFlow and Caffe, and claims an increase for workloads running on these frameworks by up to almost 4x.
If it works as described this should give data scientists building models and running them on a Power9-powered machine increased speed, which should allow them to run these jobs faster and complete model creation more quickly.
Patrick Moorhead, principal analyst at Moor Insights & Strategy believes IBM has really differentiated itself from the competition with this chip. “Power9 is a chip which has a new systems architecture that is optimized for accelerators used in machine learning. Intel makes Xeon CPUs and Nervana accelerators and NVIDIA makes Tesla accelerators. IBM’s Power9 is literally the Swiss Army knife of ML acceleration as it supports an astronomical amount of IO and bandwidth, 10X of anything that’s out there today,” Moorhead said.
Photo: IBM
If you’re thinking that Nvidia seems to have grabbed a good deal of the AI/machine learning workloads, it didn’t escape IBM’s notice either and they have been working closely with the GPU chip maker. In fact, McCredie says that IBM built a system bus that moves workloads between the two chip types much faster than competitive systems.
“Modern workloads are becoming accelerated and the Nvidia GPU is a common accelerator. We have seen this trend coming. We built a deep relationship with them and a partnership between the Power system and the GPU. We have a unique bus that runs between the processor and the GPU and has 10x peak bandwidth over competitive systems,” McCredie explained.
The new chips are going to power a supercomputer called Summit being built by Lawrence Livermore and Oakridge national laboratories. He says the supercomputer will be built on top of  thousands and thousands of the Power9 computers at a cost of $325 million, a nice little burst of business for the new chip right out of the gate.
Chirag Dekate, who is research director for HPC, machine learning and emerging compute technologies at Gartner says this release is a continuation of IBM’s aggressive approach to capture high-growth market segments like artificial intelligence. “By aligning their strategy across segments like AI (specifically machine learning and deep learning), it enables IBM to better compete in hyperscale datacenter and broader market datacenter initiatives. This has a potential to drive direct revenue impact for IBM and enable new larger scale datacenter deployments,” Dekate explained.
The Power9 chip is generally available starting today.

Featured Image: IBM


It’s no secret that the OpenStack Foundation has been looking to branch out beyond its eponymous cloud infrastructure project, which, until now, was always its sole focus. It’s also no surprise then that the Foundation today announced the launch of the Kata Containers project.
Kata Containers is a new open source project that aims to bring the best of containers (speed, flexibility, manageability etc.) with the best of virtual machines (especially security). It’s built on top of the work that Intel did with its Clear Containers technology and Hyper’s runV hypervisor-based runtime.
As OpenStack Foundation executive director Jonathan Bryce told me, his organization was looking to support additional projects that make it easier to run production workloads in the cloud. “At the OpenStack Foundation, we are really focussed on the user community we built and solving their needs — and that’s something that’s bigger than the core OpenStack services,” he said.
So what does the Kata Containers project actually look like? The basic idea here is that containers, for all of their advantages, have long had a few basic security issues, largely because its hard to keep containers fully isolated from each other when they are running together on a shared virtual machine. The Kata Containers project solves this by giving each container its own, very lightweight virtual machine and kernel, so that each container or container pod run in its own isolated environment and gets its own allocation of networking, I/O and memory, as well as access to hardware-enforced isolation thanks to the virtualization technologies that Intel now builds into its processors.
Kata Containers currently integrates with Kubernetes, Docker and OpenStack, it currently only runs on chips based on the X86 architecture and it only supports KVM as its hypervisor. The plan is to expand support to other architectures and hypervisors over time, though.
Until now, Intel and Hyper both separately worked on building similar solutions. Hyper’s COO James Kulina tells me that his company has been working with Intel for about a year now and that the two companies got to a point were they thought that it was time for a standardized solution. And there’s clearly a demand for this solution, given that the companies like Canonical, China Mobile, CoreOS, Dell/EMC, Google, Huawei, JD.com, Mirantis, Suse, Tencent and ZTE are already supporting it. Some of these, like Chinese e-commerce platform JD.com, already run Hyper’s runV in their data centers today.
Besides the actual technology here, it’s also interesting to see the OpenStack Foundation move beyond its core projects. The Foundation now describes itself as “the home of open infrastructure” and there can be no doubt that the Kata project fits this description nicely. It also shows that the Foundation is able to bring many of its existing backers on board for these new projects.
It’s worth stressing that Kata Containers is very much an independent project with its own technical governance and contributor base. The OpenStack Foundation will manage the project, similar to how the Linux Foundation provides support to groups like the CNCF of Cloud Foundry Foundation.
The Kata Containers code is now available on GitHub and like other OpenStack projects, the code is licensed under the Apache 2 license.

Featured Image: Getty Images


Over the last few years, and arguably punching way above its weight, Code First: Girls has been doing important work. The U.K. social enterprise, which originally spun out of company builder Entrepreneur First, has already taught more than 5,000 women to code, with the broader aim of helping to close the gender gap in the country’s tech industry and tackle the tech skills shortage in general.
Today the organisation is upping the stakes, kicking off a campaign to teach 20,000 young women in the U.K. and Ireland how to code for free by the end of 2020. To help achieve this, Code First: Girls is running a crowdfunding campaign, in addition to working with partners and backers from leading employers, including KKR and OVH, to train young women at the start of their careers.
Specifically, I’m told the programme will offer training support to employees from the “2020 campaign”-supporting partner companies, with the opportunity to train their young female staff and gift free coding courses on the partner’s behalf to other young women.
In addition to the training, Code First: Girls is building a community platform to support the course alumnae so that they cam learn from and support each other. And, perhaps smartly, through the platform, the campaigns’ “top tier” partners will get access to the eventual pool of 20,000 young women who have completed the coding courses and are wanting to explore career opportunities in tech and digital.
In other words, this is also about actually landing a job, for which Code First: Girls already has a decent track record. Women that have received training from the social enterprise have gone on to roles at a number of startups, such as Onfido, Technology Will Save Us, BlaBlaCar, and Starling Bank.
Why does any of this matter? Code First: Girls cites statistics that show women are currently underrepresented in the U.K. technology sector and that this has actually gone backwards, falling from 33 percent in 2002 to 27 percent today. According to the U.K. Office of National Statistics, when you drill down to tech and telco professionals in the U.K., only 3.9 percent are female programmers and software developers, a number that has gone down from 10 percent in 2007. There are arguably many reasons for this, but there is no doubt that the pipeline is one major factor (and an excuse routinely provided by employers).
And, of course, tech is where the higher-paid future jobs are being generated and more broadly tech is reshaping every facet of society. People of all backgrounds and genders should and need to have a stake in how that future is being shaped, for themselves and the benefit of all of us.


Here’s a surprise: at our Disrupt Berlin event, Ulrich Spiesshofer, the CEO of 125-year old automation giant ABB, argued that automation is nothing to fear.
“I think we need to take this fear extremely seriously and get people out of this fear,” he said. In his view, automation and robotics has allowed millions of people to move beyond the extreme poverty line and it’s the countries that embraced automation — including the likes of China and India — that are doing much better than some of their counterparts that have resisted automation.
“Technology can be really good if you play it right,” Spiesshofer noted. “The truth is that the countries with the highest robot density — South Korea, Germany, Japan — have the lowest unemployment rates.” If people are afraid, Spiesshofer seemed to say, that’s because they don’t know the facts. ABB itself, he said, now has more employees who are robot engineers than it ever had casting mechanics.



tc_disrupt_berlin-spiesshofer-abb-4224




tc_disrupt_berlin-spiesshofer-abb-4198




tc_disrupt_berlin-spiesshofer-abb-4210




tc_disrupt_berlin-spiesshofer-abb-4211




tc_disrupt_berlin-spiesshofer-abb-4214




tc_disrupt_berlin-spiesshofer-abb-4222




tc_disrupt_berlin-spiesshofer-abb-4217




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


This isn’t an easy path, though. Spiesshofer noted that we need a lifelong education ecosystem that enables intergenerational education. And companies like ABB need to embrace this and allow their employees to learn new skills. Ideally, the secondary benefit of doing that is increased morale and employee loyalty.
Looking ahead, though, isn’t the end-state artificial intelligence and a future where robots don’t need to collaborate with humans? Spiesshofer believes AI is all about augmenting human potential (a view he has in common with the likes of Satya Nadella). AI will only make humans more productive, and in the end, you’ll still need engineers who understand how these machines function.
It doesn’t come as a surprise that the CEO of ABB believes that automation will have a positive impact. Still, Spiesshofer clearly argues that this won’t be an easy path for everybody. You won’t be able to just do one job for the rest of your life, after all. You will have to learn new skills and ideally, you’ll learn how to program the robots that will then help you do your job. Good luck, humans.


Marketing tech company Zeta Global is making good use of its recent $140 million Series F funding round. After acquiring Boomtrain earlier this year, the company today announced it has acquired Disqus, a service you’re probably familiar with thanks to its ubiquitous online commenting service that powers the commenting sections of sites that range from TMZ to The Atlantic and Entertainment Weekly.
A source close to the two companies tells us that the acquisition price was close to $90 million. This marks Zeta’s eleventh acquisition since it was founded in 2007.
Zeta Global’s acquisitions have typically focused on more fundamental technologies like AI and machine learning, customer lifecycle management and other adtech related services. At first glance, Disqus doesn’t quite seem to fit into this list, but Disqus sits on a huge data set that goes beyond your favorite troll’s political comments.
“Marketers typically have to make trade-offs between reaching engaged audiences on social platforms with massive reach and using tools that give them control and access to granular targeting capabilities,” said Zeta Global CEO, chairman and co-founder David A. Steinberg. “Disqus strengthens Zeta’s ability to offer the best of both worlds with the scale, visibility and performance marketers have been asking for.”
Disqus gives these marketers the ability to target users based on their interests. You can infer quite a bit about people simply based on which sites they comment on, after all. At the same time, though, most of the online commenting has now moved to social media and the number of comments on most sites is in a steady decline. So while Zeta is acquired a large hoard of data, it remains to be seen how long that data will stay current.
Zeta promises that it will continue to grow Disqus’ core business and platform and use its existing AI capabilities and data assets to enhance Disqus’ analytics. Zeta also expects to integrate Disqus’ platform with its personalization and messaging capabilities to build new offerings for publishers and brands.
Disqus launched in 2007, when there was still a lot of excitement around commenting and a number of similar third-party commenting systems like Intense Debate (acquired by Automattic in 2008) and Livefyre (acquired by Adobe in 2016) sprung up that all took a slightly different approach to offering this kind of service but essentially offered the same features.
About a year ago, we reported that Disqus laid off about 20 percent of its staff, for a total of 11 employees, in an effort to rebalance its priorities to focus more on data services for publishers and advertisers. That’s clearly what Zeta was interested in, too.
Ahead of the acquisition, Disqus had raised a total of $10.5 million, which isn’t exactly a lot for a 10-year-old company. Investors include the likes of North Bridge Venture Partners, Union Square Ventures, Felicis Ventures and Knight’s Bridge Capital Partners. Disqus was also an early Y Combinator graduate (and we used it here on TechCrunch for a while, too).

Featured Image: Tero Vesalainen/Getty Images


James Williams is a doctoral candidate at the Oxford Internet Institute. He studies the ethics of attention and persuasion in technology design and spoke with us about the rise of attention-grabbing advertising and media and how we can fight back against the onslaught.
I talked to him just before Thanksgiving for this enlightening episode of Technotopia.
Before fighting against bad advertising Williams worked at Google on “advertising products and tools.” His work now is aimed at reversing exactly what he built and he wants to use the tools he made to help fix advertising.
Technotopia is a podcast by John Biggs about a better future. You can subscribe in Stitcher, RSS, or iTunes and listen the MP3 here.



















		( function() {
			var func = function() {
				var iframe_form = document.getElementById('wpcom-iframe-form-51cb8625dfb60b2938bdf6637a643915-5a2a84735f6e8');
				var iframe = document.getElementById('wpcom-iframe-51cb8625dfb60b2938bdf6637a643915-5a2a84735f6e8');
				if ( iframe_form && iframe ) {
					iframe_form.submit();
					iframe.onload = function() {
						iframe.contentWindow.postMessage( {
							'msg_type': 'poll_size',
							'frame_id': 'wpcom-iframe-51cb8625dfb60b2938bdf6637a643915-5a2a84735f6e8'
						}, window.location.protocol + '//wpcomwidgets.com' );
					}
				}

				// Autosize iframe
				var funcSizeResponse = function( e ) {
					var origin = document.createElement( 'a' );
					origin.href = e.origin;

					// Verify message origin
					if ( 'wpcomwidgets.com' !== origin.host )
						return;

					// Verify message is in a format we expect
					if ( 'object' !== typeof e.data || undefined === e.data.msg_type )
						return;

					switch ( e.data.msg_type ) {
						case 'poll_size:response':
							var iframe = document.getElementById( e.data._request.frame_id );

							if ( iframe && '' === iframe.width )
								iframe.width = '100%';
							if ( iframe && '' === iframe.height )
								iframe.height = parseInt( e.data.height );

							return;
						default:
							return;
					}
				}

				if ( 'function' === typeof window.addEventListener ) {
					window.addEventListener( 'message', funcSizeResponse, false );
				} else if ( 'function' === typeof window.attachEvent ) {
					window.attachEvent( 'onmessage', funcSizeResponse );
				}
			}
			if (document.readyState === 'complete') { func.apply(); /* compat for infinite scroll */ }
			else if ( document.addEventListener ) { document.addEventListener( 'DOMContentLoaded', func, false ); }
			else if ( document.attachEvent ) { document.attachEvent( 'onreadystatechange', func ); }
		} )();


Amazon announced today it’s expanding its product selection on Prime Now, its one and two-hour delivery service, to now include last-minute holiday gifts with the addition of Amazon Handmade products. For the first time, handcrafted items from local artisans – including things like home décor, jewelry, art, and more – will be available starting today all the way through Christmas Eve, the retailer says.
Launched back in 2015, Amazon Handmade is Amazon’s attempt at taking on larger crafts marketplaces like Etsy, where people today shop for gifts that haven’t been mass-produced. This appeals to a certain type of online shopper – those who want to reward artisans not big businesses, those who want their gifts to feel more personalized and authentic, and those who want to buy locally.
The products from Handmade that will be available on Prime Now through the holidays including things like handcrafted pottery, necklaces, skincare, tote bags and candles, among other things.
After the order is placed, Prime members can request to take delivery in an hour for a fee, or in two hours for free.
“Amazon is thrilled to continue expanding on our commitment to small businesses and artisans who can leverage Amazon’s last-mile delivery technology to get their handcrafted items to Prime members in an hour or less,” said Stephenie Landry, vice president of Prime Now, in a statement about the launch.
Prime Now, which launched in Manhattan four years ago, is now available in over 30 cities across the U.S. However, Amazon Handmade items wouldn’t be offered in all markets – just Austin, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Minneapolis, Phoenix, Portland, Raleigh, San Diego, San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle.
They’re also not going to be available year-round for last-minute gifts, but are instead a holiday promotion that will end on Christmas Eve.


Femtech startup Clue is looking at expanding the feature-set of its period tracking app to attract women outside its current younger demographic.
“Menopause is a huge space,” said founder Ida Tin, speaking on stage here at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin. “I’ve been submerged into this area of female health for almost a decade now and every day I learn something new and everywhere I look I’m like ‘why is nobody dealing with this?’
“Where is technology? How is technology serving women’s needs when they go through menopause? There is nothing — it’s really, really just this open space. So what we really want to do with Clue is to kind of be a companion as they walk through life.”
While she said the current priority for the app is adding more features to serve its existing user base, who are mainly using it for period tracking, features for tracking menopause symptoms could also be added “in the coming months and years”.



The transformative potential of tracking data to unlock a deeper understanding of health issues was also discussed during the session.
“Give it a few years and I think that people will start understanding that having this longitude data-set of your health is going to be an incredibly valuable thing to have — almost like life insurance,” said Tin.
“Because we will learn to pick up early signals of disease that currently we have no ways to detect early enough — ovarian cancer would be one of them. Which is totally treatable if you catch it early. But it’s hard to catch it early.
“And I think there will be many more things like this where people will learn to know that collecting data for your health is just a really, really smart thing to do.”
But on the data front she also cautioned that technology companies pushing into the health space really need to prioritize data transparency and ethics.
Taking time to do due diligence on potential partners is one of the reasons Clue has been holding off on doing more integrations with third parties which could expand its own data pipe, she added, noting also that it would rather partner with a hardware maker than build its own devices.
Hardware devices that are really exciting her are “the kind of things that can tell us about what’s going on in the body at a more molecular level”, she said.
“And also things where the user experience can be true mass market — I think at the moment we have some solutions for natural family planning but… the user experience is not what it needs to be for it to be something that’s really working for a lot of people. So those are the kinds of things we think we have ideas that could make that better.”
“That’s definitely an ambition that we have to integrate with a lot of different things — and it’s wonderful to be in this space of femtech because there is so much happening,” added Tin. “But we’ve been holding off til we’ve figured out what really to do with those extra data streams, what partnership we felt is a really good brand fit.
“Especially with some of the big corporations — we want to really make sure that we have the user’s needs at the center of our attention. And make sure that we can navigate something as challenging as a partnership with a big corporation without that, in the end, not benefiting the user.”
Responding to a question about concerns raised in the UK by a data-sharing and app development partnership between ad giant Google DeepMind and the country’s National Health Service, she said: “I think the lack of transparency is really problematic.”
This summer, a 2015 agreement between the Royal Free NHS Trust and DeepMind was judged by the UK’s data protection watchdog to have broken privacy laws. Under the arrangement, the medical records of 1.6M patients using three London hospitals passed to DeepMind without the people’s knowledge or consent — and, as it turned out, with no legal basis for the information to be shared.
“Things that happen without users understanding where their data is going I think just shouldn’t happen,” said Tin.
“There’s always this kind of tension between — that data can be used for bad and data that can be used for good. And I think right now there’s so much connotation that data is kind of a negative thing, and people are misusing it, selling it, hacking it, breaking it. And I really want to also raise the voice — and it’s a fantastic thing that we can now understand all this thing that we couldn’t understand before. And really be a stance that we can use data for good — we just need to get it right. We shouldn’t shy away and think data’s bad.
“Data’s fantastic — it’s when we misuse it, it becomes problematic,” she added. “So let’s build good, ethical, solid data companies.
“It’s starts with a very deep, ethical choice that you make as a founder, as a company… What kind of company do we want to be? And what do we think is right? And then living by those standards.”


Now that its bottom line is being affected, YouTube says it will begin to take additional steps to protect its advertisers and creators from inappropriate content on its network. In a blog post authored by YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki on Monday, the company said it will increase its staff to 10,000 in 2018 to help better moderate video content, and perform other related tasks.* The news follows a series of scandals on the video-sharing site related to its lack of policing around content aimed at children, obscene comments on videos of children, horrifying search suggestions, and more.
* Update: YouTube reached out to clarify its hiring numbers. Its teams include a mix of different specialists working on these issues, the majority who are content reviewers. But the number also includes other policy specialists who review and take action on content, engineers building and refining the machine learning technology, and policy specialists training our machine learning algorithms. The 10K ‘content reviewers’ headline was not accurate, and we’ve corrected.  
The company has been suffering from the fallout of accusations that it has for too long allowed bad actors to game its recommendation algorithms to reach children with videos that aren’t meant for younger viewers. At the same time, it has seemingly fostered a community of creators making videos that involve putting kids in concerning, and even exploitive, situations.
One example, the channel ToyFreaks, was recently terminated after concerns were raised about its videos, where a fathers’ young daughters were filmed in odd, upsetting and inappropriate situations, at times.
YouTube had said then the channel’s removal was part of a new tightening of its child endangerment policies. It also last month implemented new policies to flag videos where inappropriate content was aimed at children.
It has since pulled down thousands of videos of children as a result, and removed the advertising from nearly 2 million videos and over 50,000 channels.

Having policies is one thing, but having staff on hand to actually enforce them is another.
That’s why YouTube says it’s now planning to increase its workforce focused on this task. While the blog post from Wojcicki only offered the number of total hires it planned to have on staff by next year, a report from BuzzFeed notes this “over 10,000” figure represents a 25 percent increase from the current staffing levels.
However, YouTube still relies heavily on algorithms to help police its content. As Wojcicki noted in a blog post, YouTube plans to use machine learning technology to help it “quickly and efficiently remove content that violates our guidelines.”
This same technology has aided YouTube in flagging violent extremist content on the site, leading to the removal of over 150,000 videos since June.
“Today, 98 percent of the videos we remove for violent extremism are flagged by our machine-learning algorithms,” Wojcicki wrote. “Our advances in machine learning let us now take down nearly 70 percent of violent extremist content within eight hours of upload and nearly half of it in two hours and we continue to accelerate that speed,” she added.
The goal is now turn those technologies to a more difficult (and sometimes less obvious) area to police.
While some content is easier to spot – like videos where kids seem to be in pain, or being ‘pranked’ by parents in a cruel fashion – other videos exist in a much grayer area.

There are so many parents who have roped their kids into their quest for YouTube stardom, it’s hard to draw a fine line between what’s appropriate and what’s not.
One question that needs to be raised is to what extent can a preschooler or schoolager really consent to participating in mom or dad’s daily videos? Shouldn’t they be free to play instead of constantly instructed to act out various skits, or have the camera trained on them nonstop? These channels, after all, aren’t just the occasional fun video – they are often full-time jobs for parents. There are laws in the U.S. around child labor, and child actors in particular, but YouTube has continually danced around that line, as it’s “not really TV” – and that means it doesn’t have to play by TV’s rules regarding deceptive ads, junk food ads, and more.
In addition to the new policies and promises of increased staffing, YouTube also says it will create regular reports where it’s transparent about the aggregate data regarding the flags it receives, and the actions it takes to remove videos and comments that violate its content policies.
And most importantly, in terms of its business, YouTube says it will more carefully consider which channels and videos are eligible for advertising using a set of stricter criteria, combined with more manual curation.
“We are taking these actions because it’s the right thing to do,” wrote Wojcicki. “Creators make incredible content that builds global fan bases. Fans come to YouTube to watch, share, and engage with this content. Advertisers, who want to reach those people, fund this creator economy. Each of these groups is essential to YouTube’s creative ecosystem—none can thrive on YouTube without the other—and all three deserve our best efforts.”
Personally, I’d love it if YouTube cut off the ability for creators to make money from videos featuring children, period. Maybe the too-young stars could finally get a break and just be allowed to just go be kids again. But I won’t hold my breath.

Featured Image: nevodka/iStock Editorial


GM is making it possible to shop right from your vehicle’s infotainment system, while on the go. The carmaker is pushing out an update for model year 2017 and later vehicles, which will go out to all cars even if the owner doesn’t have a paid in-car Wi-Fi data subscription, that adds ‘Marketplace,’ a new kind of commerce platform.
Marketplace is already rolling out to Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and Cadillac cars, and offers a number of possible purchase options through partners at launch, including Dunkin’ Donuts, Wingstop, Shell, ExxonMobil, Applebee’s and more. GM focused on retailers and gas station providers initially because these stand to have the most impact in terms of making car owner’s drive easier.
You can also make reservations at restaurants via Marketplace (TGI Fridays is on board right now), as well as reserve parking spots ahead of time and then pay for time. And the in-dash Marketplace purchasing process is actually intended to be used while you’re actually driving, with a purchase flow that’s intended to minimize distraction and keep attention on the road.
I spoke to GM Director of Global Digital Experience & Connected Vehicles John McFarland about why GM chose to build an in-vehicle ecommerce platform, and in particular one designed to actually be used while driving.
“Rather than having somebody have to, if they’re going to engage on their phone, pull over and get in park while they’re doing it, which causes you to lose valuable time, or even worse, the temptation for people to try to use their phone while driving which is something that we definitely don’t want… we believe in doing everything we can to make it available while making it safe while in motion,” he said.
Distracted driving is always top of mind for automakers, especially given the rising number of human-caused traffic fatalities. NHTSA has made clear how a significant portion of this is down to mobile device usage, which is a major contributor to distracted driving. GM has designed the ecommerce experience to be easy to navigate while on the road safety and securely, partly in hopes that people will take advantage of this rather than trying to accomplish the same thing using their smartphone.

That also explains its choice of launch partners – McFarland made clear the carmaker wanted to select businesses that made sense for use on the road, with a focus on things that regularly make up part of a user’s commute. Starbucks is coming onboard in 2018, for instance, in addition to the other partners listed above.
In addition to those, GM is also making it possible to buy upgrades, accessories and care for your GM vehicle, as well as top-ups for in-car Wi-Fi plans. Also, data used via Marketplace doesn’t count towards your totals if you are a Wi-Fi subscriber.
One other way GM is making the in-car shopping experience more convenient is through user of machine learning to identify what you’re mostly likely to want to buy, and when. So, if you have a routine that typically involves picking up a coffee on the way to work, you’ll get a suggestion to pick one up based on signals including time of day, location, preferred merchant and more.
As of right now, McFarland tells me that the Marketplace platform is considered ‘open,’ though GM is working directly with interested merchants, retailers and restaurants, along with its technology partners Xevo, Conversable and Sionic mobile to tailor their offerings before setting them live.
This is another great example of an automaker varying their approach to business in order to become something more than just a seller of cars; we’ve seen a lot of carmakers engage in data plays, and in-car ecommerce is definitely part of that. It’s also a feature that could potentially have a tremendous impact in an autonomous driving future, and while McFarland says the focus thus far has been on building something that drivers can use while on the road now, they’ve definitely given thought to its potential in driverless applications.


N26, the European mobile banking service, today announced the launch of N26 Metal, the company’s premium MasterCard-affiliated debit card “tailored to the needs of digital customers” at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin. N26 Black customers in Germany, France, Italy and Austria will be able to sign up for the new NFC-enabled card, which obviously features a metal core made from tungsten and that makes the card weigh a lot, starting December 14.
So what’s special about this card? N26 describes the N26 Metal as its new “top-of-the-line premium MasterCard product, after all. The company argues that the card offers dedicated customer service, worldwide travel insurance, no foreign withdrawal fees and good exchange rates.

To be honest, that doesn’t feel all that special, especially given the perks U.S. credit card companies often provide on top of this. In Europe, however, these kind of perks are still rather unusual (in large part due to the lower interchange fees in Europe). But N26 says that it also offers its customers exclusive partner programs that cater “to the needs of digital customers who expect easy on-demand access to the products and services they enjoy.”
It’s also worth noting that this is the first metal card in Europe that supports contactless payments.
What better company to partner with then than co-working and real estate startup WeWork. Using the N26 Metal service, N26 customers will also be able to join the WeWork network and get credits to reserve workspaces and conference rooms. “It’s fitting with the lifestyle that we are aiming for — and that of our customers,” N26 CEO Valentin Stalf noted today.


Valentin Stalf of N26 explains how they make money, announces super premium card and partnership with WeWork #TCDisrupt pic.twitter.com/TxM7hCeMnd
— TechCrunch (@TechCrunch) December 5, 2017


Earlier this year, Parity Technologies seemingly lost about $150 million worth of Ethereum (513,774.16 Ether) when a user of its wallet accidentally deleted a code library that made Parity’s wallets work. At least 1 million in ETH became frozen — and about $90 million of those were actually from Parity co-founder and Ethereum core developer Gavin Wood’s token sale for its Pokadot blockchain technology. The money may not be lost forever, though.
Today at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin, Woods and Parity CEO and co-founder Jutta Steiner retraced their story of what happened. “A library that governs the logic of the wallets that people use had a bug, which was due to a delicate refactoring at the time when the tools weren’t yet that developed,” Steiner said, arguing it’s a symptom of the technology still being young at the time. “We hadn’t figured out how to deal with bugs.”



As TechCrunch editor-at-large Mike Butcher noted, though, the bug that caused this freeze was actually known and had been reported long before it caused this issue. Steiner didn’t disagree, but noted that this issue wasn’t reported as a critical security flaw at the time. “It sounded like a nice-to-have update,” she said.
Steiner, however, said that she is confident that a fix for this issue, which could unfreeze the money, may happen when the next scheduled update goes live in the next four to six months.
How upset is Woods about this? It doesn’t seem like he’s too fazed by it. “It’s a long-term savings account for us right now,” he quipped. But while the two might have sounded nonchalant on stage about the issue, it’s clearly a sensitive subject for both Parity and Polkadot.
It’s still extremely early days for these technologies, and as Butcher noted, we’re in the ‘moon-landing’ phase of this brand new industry.


Boom Supersonic wants to revitalize and improve the world of supersonic passenger flight, and it now has a new partner on board in its mission – Japan Airlines (JAL), one of the world’s leading passenger flight providers. JAL is putting $10 million into Boom via a strategic investment, and is also going to help Boom with aircraft design and with aspects of the in-flight passenger experience.
As part of the arrangement, JAL also now has the option to purchase up to 20 Boom Supersonic aircraft once they become commercially available. This adds to existing orders from airlines that Boom already has in place, bringing its total to 76 aircraft accounted for across five global airlines.
JAL has actually already been working with Boom for over a year, according to Boom founder and CEO Blake Scholl, but this more clearly formalizes the relationship. Having airline stakeholders closely involved in how the development of its aircraft and service plans will work is a huge boon for Boom, which is a very small company with very ambitious goals. Boom is consistently lining up big partners in aviation, however, including Richard Branson’s Virgin Airlines, and Scholl told me this is a key part of its strategic planning.
“Each of our deals is designed to be appropriate for the particular context,” Scholl explained via email. “We expect to do many deals with many airlines. Initially, our goal is to select at least one partner in every region of the world. We will continue to engage with other global carriers to maximize the value of JAL’s investment and bring back supersonic commercial travel.”
Boom’s aircraft design is intended to be able to achieve speeds of Mach 2.2 during regular cruising flight, and can traverse up to 8,334 km on a single tank with seating for up to 55 customers with Business Class-type comfort and accommodations – as well as airfares in line with current Business Class pricing, despite cutting travel times drastically.
In terms of progress on making its supersonic jet a reality, Boom is in the process of selecting a production site for its aircraft, and hopes to have its commercial jet in service by 2023. Its supersonic subscale demonstrator jet, the XB-1, is still on track to fly its first test flight by the end of 2018.


Disrupt Berlin 2017 pushes onward, and today we have a jam-packed lineup of tech super stars.
We’ll be joined on stage by Parrot’s Henri Seydoux, Atomico’s Yann de Vries, ABB’s Ulrich Spiesshofer and Clue’s Ida Tin.
Plus, we’ll head into the Startup Battlefield Finals, judged by some of the world’s finest investors: Suranga Chandratillake (Balderton Capital), Tugce Ergul (Angel Labs), Luciana Lixandru (Accel), Matthew Panzarino (TechCrunch) and Mark Schmitz (Lakestar).
For those of you that can’t make it to Arena Berlin, we’ll be bringing the action directly to you.
So sit back, relax, and enjoy the show!
Ways to watch:

YouTube
Twitch
TechCrunch

Select panels will be available on Twitter/Periscope as well as Facebook Live.


Spotify’s annual Wrapped feature is now up to give users insights into what they streamed over the past twelve months. While obviously a promotion for the music service, Wrapped is a quick and amusing diversion from an increasingly hellish news cycle. Spotify acknowledges the fact that 2017 has been an ordeal for lots of people on Wrapped’s landing page, which says “in a year that many wanted to tune out, music gave us a reason to keep listening.”
Wrapped, which replaced Spotify’s personalized Year in Music feature last year, tells you the amount of time you spent streaming music in 2016 and how many songs and artists you listened to. Then it quizzes you to see how well you know your own listening habits before making a personalized playlist of 30 songs you might have missed this year.
Earlier today, Spotify, which now claims over 140 million active users, also released its Year in Music lists. Ed Sheeran was the platform’s most streamed artist globally in 2017 with 47 million monthly listeners, while his latest album, ÷, was played 3.1 billion times. Both Hip Hop and Latin music gained large amounts of new listeners, with “Despacito—Remix” by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee being named Spotify’s “Song of the Summer.” Other winners this year include Rihanna, the most streamed female artist of 2017, Drake, Taylor Swift, Camila Cabello and Coldplay.

Featured Image: Thomas Trutschel/Photothek/Getty Images


A long list of prominent American businesspeople have joined AOL co-founder Steve Case’s new Rise of the Rest seed fund for startups in the Midwest and other areas that are often overlooked by investors. Case told the New York Times that the fund has secured $150 million from backers including Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Eric Schmidt, the chairman of Alphabet.
As The New York Times puts it, the complete list of investors in the Rise of the Rest fund “may be the greatest concentration of American wealth and power in one investment fund.” In addition to Bezos and Schmidt, it includes:

Starbucks chairman Howard Schultz
Fashion designer Tory Burch
Bridgewater Associates founder Ray Dalio
Quicken Loans founder Dan Gilbert
KKR co-founder Henry Kravis
Carlyle Group co-founder David Rubenstein
Financier and philanthropist Michael Milken
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers chairman John Doerr
Breyer Capital founder Jim Breyer
Napster co-founder and former Facebook president Sean Parker
Spanx founder Sara Blakely
Tampa Bay Lightning and the Tampa Bay Storm owner Jeff Vinik
Banker Byron Trott
Goldman Sachs leader director Adebayo Ogunlesi
and members of the Walton, Koch and Pritzker families

The fund, which shares a name with Case’s speaking tour and startup pitch competition, plans to provide mentorship as well as financing to entrepreneurs located outside of Silicon Valley, New York City, Boston and other major business hubs.
Case told The New York Times that the Rise of the Rest fund isn’t a social impact fund, but instead seeks to increase investment in underserved regions by proving companies there can “generate top returns.”
Case is also a co-founder of Revolution, a Washington, D.C.-based venture capital firm that backs companies outside of major tech hubs. At Disrupt New York in May, Case told the audience that many regions are overlooked simply because investors can’t “get in their cars and drive to those companies” and he wants to convince other VCs to look outside of their comfort zones.

Featured Image: TechCrunch


Google’s made a number of tweaks since announcing Android Go back at I/O in May. The lightweight version is finally ready to launch, albeit with a slightly altered name. The OS is launching with the release of Android 8.1, now carrying the decidedly less catchy Android Oreo (Go edition) title. 
As per the new name, the Go version isn’t an altogether different operating system than the primary version of Android. In fact, in a number of ways, the software types are likely indistinguishable, and Google’s devoting a team to assuring that the Go edition gets updated and released on more or less the same schedule as its standard counterpart. 
Google made the announcement this evening at an event in India — a major potential market for the new version of the OS. As the company notes in a recent blog post, there are currently more Android users in India than the U.S., making it a huge market, along with other developing countries. A number of companies like Mozilla and Nokia have worked to address a rapidly expanding audience in these areas, but none are better positioned than Google.

With more than two billion activated Android devices in the world, the mobile operating system already has a strong footprint. Go Edition is an attempt to give users the best possible Android experience, in spite of hardware limitations. The Oreo configuration is designed specifically for devices with between 512MB and 1GB of RAM. 
According to Google, that comes with all sorts of benefits for the end user, including 30 percent faster startup time and an optimization of storage space, by up to 2x. The latter is accomplished, in part, by the inclusion of a number of optimized Go apps. It’s a pretty long list, including Google Go, Google Assistant Go, YouTube Go, Google Maps Go, Gmail Go, Gboard, Chrome and Files Go, a new file management app. There’s also a Go version of the Play store, which specializes in lightweight apps. 
All in all, the changes are relatively minimal. There are a few key things, including recent previews and multi-users settings, but it ultimately shouldn’t be too major a step down from the full Android, for the most part. Google’s also not limiting availability of the software to any specific region. Go edition will be available globally starting tomorrow. Compatible devices should start shipping early next year.


Two Senate Democrats will donate funds they received from Shervin Pishevar to charitable organizations after the venture capitalist was accused of sexual harassment and assault by multiple women. According to Bloomberg, which first reported on the allegations against Pishevar last week, U.S. Senators Kamala Harris of California and Cory Booker of New Jersey will give the money to advocacy groups, including organizations that support victims of sexual assault and domestic violence.
Pishevar is known for his Democratic fundraising in addition to his tech investments. According to OpenSecrets, Pishevar has given more than $500,000 to candidates and committees, including the presidential campaigns of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. Though neither have publicly announced intentions to run, both Harris and Booker are considered potential contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020.
Bloomberg also says that board members of Virgin Hyperloop One, which Pishevar co-founded in 2014, are pushing him to resign from the board, where he currently serves as co-executive chairman.
Last week Bloomberg said that five women told the publication they were assaulted or harassed by Pishevar. It also reported that Uber’s head of global expansion, Austin Geidt, had been propositioned by Pishevar multiple times, citing former and current colleagues (Geidt declined to comment to Bloomberg). Pishevar was an early investor in Uber and a board observer from 2011 to 2015.
Earlier this year, Pishevar was also investigated by the London police earlier this year over a rape allegation, but released without being charged.
Pishevar, who has claimed that he is the victim of a “smear campaign,” sued a GOP opposition research firm called Definers Public Affairs earlier this month for defamation. Definers Public Affairs has denied Pishevar’s claims, calling them “completely false” and “delusional,” but the lawsuit is already having a chilling effect. Bloomberg says several of Pishevar’s accusers were willing to be identified by name in its article, but changed their minds after he sued Definers Public Affairs, citing the potential of legal reprisal.
TechCrunch has contacted representatives of Harris, Booker and Pishevar for comment. A representative for Uber said “We fully support those who have felt harassed speaking out, whenever and however they choose. We commend their bravery.”


The Securities and Exchange Commission has charged Canadian crypto company PlexCorp with violating securities laws by selling up to $15 million in an initial coin offering (ICO).
ICOs have seen explosive growth over the past year as fledgling companies have used them to raise more than $3 billion in capital through various cryptocurrencies. However, experts have warned they can present several dangers to unsuspecting investors hoping to get into a hot new market as regulations are pretty loose.
Called PlexCoins, PlexCorp allegedly used this cryptocurrency to scam would-be investors hoping to cash in early on the company’s growth, telling them each PlexCoin would “yield a 1,354 percent profit in less than 29 days,” according to a statement from the SEC.
The government agency also charged company founders Dominic Lacroix and Sabrina Paradis-Royer for their part in the sale and announced it had frozen company assets in an effort to halt this “fast-moving Initial Coin Offering (ICO) fraud.”
In July, the Quebec Financial Markets Administrative Tribunal issued a series of orders prohibiting Lacroix from promoting the sale of PlexCoins ahead of the launch. In October, Quebec’s Superior Court ruled Lacroix was in contempt of court for continuing to solicit investment into PlexCoins.
PlexCorp has so far not gotten back to us for comment but has issued a statement on its Facebook page, telling fans it was “being depicted as robbers, scammers and fraudsters everywhere in the media.”
It then goes on to say, “We will cooperate with the QAMF and the SEC until the end of the investigation,” and that “a major update will be made this week on the PlexCoin website.”
This is not the first time the SEC has charged an ICO with fraud. In September, the agency charged both a diamond and a real estate initial coin offering scheme with defrauding investors. However, this is the first charge coming from the SEC’s new cyber unit and a testament to the agency’s willingness to crack down on a largely unregulated sector often rife with shady activity.

Featured Image: Li-Anne Dias


Apple Pay Cash is finally starting to roll out to users in the States, bringing the ability to send other iOS users payments directly through iMessage. The update is arriving piece by piece to those who’ve downloaded iOS 11.2, which launched two days back with a not-yet-live version of the feature. 
Apple Pay Cash was announced back in June at WWDC. However, the company added ahead of iOS 11’s September launch that the feature would be “coming this fall with an update to iOS 11 and watchOS 4,” and while it was intended to launch alongside 11.2, this weekend’s early arrival of the operating system left it behind, as the company worked to push the software live, seemingly in order to address an issue that was causing some iPhones to randomly reboot. 
The new feature is a proprietary take on mobile payment apps like Venmo, PayPal and Square Cash, allowing money to be transferred to friends and family in a message or using Siri. Money sent is drawn from the credit or debit card tied to a user’s Apple Wallet. When it’s received on the other side, it shows up as an Apple Pay Cash card — sort of a virtual gift card, also stored in the Apple Wallet.
That money can then be transferred to the bank or kept on the device as a gift card, where it can be spent anywhere that accepts Apple Pay. It’s an added convenience, bringing all of that functionality directly to iMessage, rather than having to mess about with a third-party app. But for Apple, it’s also a way to rope in users who have been reluctant to install Apple Pay, and keep people in the iMessage ecosystem.
The feature appears to still be rolling out in pieces here in the States. No word yet on a time frame for international expansion.


Victor Basta hit a nerve with his article on TechCrunch last week describing the “implosion” of venture capital over the past 36 months. Using PitchBook data, he found that the total number of VC rounds committed to startups has declined from 19,000 in 2014 to 10,000 estimated for this year, even while dollars invested has remained mostly static.
Silicon Valley is no longer making it rain so much as it is making it trickle, and that makes it much harder for startup founders who are just trying to get going building their companies. My conclusion is that we have a massive “first check problem” that goes beyond the vagaries of the investment market.
First though, let’s go through some alternative explanations. Basta posits that the end of the app and SaaS booms are largely to blame, along with a drop-off in investment in fintech.
Union Square Ventures investor Fred Wilson added his own two cents over the weekend, writing that, “When I talk to my friends who do a lot of angel investing, I hear that they are being more selective, licking some wounds, and waiting for liquidity on their better investments.” Similarly, “When I talk to my friends who started seed funds in the past decade, I hear them thinking about moving up market into larger funds and Series A rounds.” Wilson’s conclusion is that “For investors, it means seed rounds are going to be the place to be.”
There is some truth that investors are moving upstream. I analyzed a list of top angels and early-stage investors from 2012 to see how some of the highest-flying players in the Valley have changed their careers over the past five years.
The most common pattern is simply that highly successful angels now have their own institutional funds or have joined well-established VC firms in the Valley. Kevin Hartz joined Founders Fund last year, Keith Rabois joined Khosla, Shervin Pishevar founded Sherpa Capital in 2013, Joe Lonsdale put together the ill-fated Formation8 in 2011 before launching 8VC in 2015. And, of course, Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz converted a very successful angel investing career into one of the top mega funds of the Valley.
And a huge number of that list of top investors also expanded the size of their funds. Take Garry Tan, for example. He founded Initialized Capital in 2011 with a $7 million first fund, but last year closed on a $115 million vehicle for the firm’s third fund. That’s the story at a lot of places, from accelerators like Y Combinator or 500 Startups, to former super angels like Jeff Clavier, whose newly rechristened Uncork Capital (formerly SoftTech VC) increased its fund size from $12 million 10 years ago to $100 million last year.
Indeed, going through that list from five years ago, I had expected to find a bunch of people who had backed away from investing. There are definitely a few who are investing less today according to Crunchbase, but the reality is that success has begot success, and the most influential investors have largely remained so. So the cause for the implosion isn’t that a bunch of top investors suddenly decided to go home.
Instead, I see the challenge being purely the friction in the earliest round of a startup, what might be called the “first check problem.” Wilson is right when he says that seed investors are being more selective. As angels investing their own capital have professionalized by raising institutional dollars, they have added more and more steps to their due diligence process.
Founders I have spoken to who have recently fundraised — some of whom are on their second or third company — have told me that the level of diligence at the seed stage seems to have increased significantly over the past few years. Outside the blockchain space, where there is that “Wild West” throw-money-at-everything vibe, the days when you could load up on capital by just having a deck and a bold presentation seem to be closing.
That’s probably good on a risk-adjusted financial basis, but is devastating for a startup ecosystem. Indeed, there is a huge gap in the market for first check investors, the investor who believes in you the founder before any other data or proof is available. Being the first check in a company used to be a deep badge of honor for angel investors, but I have heard that boast less and less over the past five years. Everyone wants more data and evidence, everyone wants to reopen the last round rather than to lead the next one. So founders wait, and hustle, and try to construct a round as best they can. That friction shows up directly in the numbers.
There is still plenty of capital for great companies. Indeed, if you can build an extraordinary company, it has never been easier to go from single-digit millions to single-digit billions in valuation in a shorter period of time. But almost all startups start out ordinary before they become extraordinary, and without those first checks, they will never be able to make it.

Featured Image: Paul Heaberlin/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE


Disrupt is back in Berlin, where 15 teams have just taken the stage as part of the Startup Battlefield.
Each startup demonstrated their product and answered questions from our expert judges. Afterwards, we narrowed it down to five companies that will be competing tomorrow to take home €42,000 and the Battlefield Cup.
Tune in tomorrow at 3:10pm Berlin time to watch the finals.
Blik



Blik aims to modernize the process of knowing what’s in your warehouse, where certain items are stored and where they are in the production process. To do this, it uses a combination of wireless sensors and indoor location tracking.
Caspar Health



Caspar Health wants to make rehabilitative care easier and more accessible. The digital platform allows doctors to assign customizable therapy treatment plans to patients following an injury, surgery or other medical event, which patients then access via a mobile app.
eTrack Tech



eTrack Tech aims to ensure that equipment functions properly so that employees are safer and industrial companies can save money on one of their biggest expenses. The company’s device looks like a router with an array of multifunctional sensors, with data streamed to a hub device for collection and analysis.
Lia Diagnostics



The Lia Diagnostics pregnancy test will be the first-ever flushable test to hit the market, offering a more sustainable, disposable, convenient and private way for women to find out if they’re pregnant or not. Unlike traditional tests, Lia’s tests are made from a special paper that will disperse in water and biodegrade.
Wandelbots



Wandelbots focuses on solving a key problem in robotics. Its first product is a sensor-laden suit that a person can wear to demonstrate actions so that a robot can then replicate what they do.


At today’s Computer Science Education Week kickoff, the theme was women in coding. In the U.S., just 18 percent of computer science college graduates are women. Hence why tech leaders like Microsoft’s Peggy Johnson, Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg and YouTube’s Susan Wojcicki took to the stage at the College of San Mateo to discuss the importance of getting young girls involved in technology.
Wojcicki described how she was introduced to computer science by luck. As a history and literature major in college, Wojcicki decided to take a computer science class during her senior year.
“It was amazing to me that this one class really changed my life,” Wojcicki said. But it was by chance that she took that class, she said.
“In today’s world where technology is changing every single thing we do, it shouldn’t be about a matter of luck,” Wojcicki said.
Later in the morning, Sandberg noted how there is unequal access in the field of computer science. She referenced the statistic that just 15 percent of people majoring in computer science are black or Latinx.
“We also have to think about not just getting the usual suspects into this field but getting everyone into this field,” Sandberg said. “What we need is equal access to computer science education.”
Earlier today, Code.org announced $12 million in new funding to help improve access to computer science education. A number of states, school districts and organizations also announced new pledges and funding to increase computer science education initiatives.
Those who made the pledge include Florida Governor Rick Scott, who made a $15 million investment to increase opportunities for middle and high school students, and California Lt. Governor Gavin Newsom, who launched a Computer Science for California campaign to bring CS education to all students in California by 2025.
“What is core to being a technologist is that we believe that the future will be better than the past,” Sandberg said. “Not perfect. Not that technology will solve every problem. Not that technology doesn’t cause some of the problems,” but the belief that technology can lift people out of poverty and bring people closer together.

Featured Image: TechCrunch/MRD


Today in a press conference, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman elaborated on his office’s efforts to investigate the FCC’s flood of fake anti-net neutrality comments while calling for a delay of the agency’s vital net neutrality vote until the source of the fraudulent comments is identified. Schneiderman joined a group of 27 senators who are also calling for a delay on the December 14 vote that is widely expected to repeal Obama-era net neutrality rules.
Schneiderman was joined onstage by Democratic FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel, an Obama-era appointee who was reappointed by the Trump administration.
“[It is] incumbent upon the FCC and all of my colleagues to stand back, figure out what’s in this record before us and get to the bottom of these stolen identities,” said Rosenworcel. Schneiderman added that the feedback system was “corrupted” — a fact that he accuses the FCC of being well aware of.
According to Schneiderman, the net neutrality feedback process generated more than 23 million total comments, marking an unprecedented level of participation. His office suspects that as many as a million of those comments are linked to stolen identities, including a 13-year-old who never submitted a comment, a recently deceased woman and the office of the Attorney General’s own assistant press secretary. He called on government officials in other states with residents that appear to have “likely victims” to get involved, including California, Missouri, Texas, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Schneiderman cited reports that that half a million of the comments appear to have been filed from Russian email addresses, a fact that net neutrality advocates likely hope will stoke further public interest in the often dry proceedings of the communications regulatory body. Further, Schneiderman notes that 50,000 consumer complaints are missing from the FCC record.
The New York Attorney General’s office has been working on getting to the bottom of the fake FCC net neutrality comment controversy for months. Last month, Schneiderman criticized the FCC for its failure to cooperate in his office’s ongoing investigation into the fake comments, which it began in June, making repeated contacts to the FCC over the subsequent five months . Last week, Schneiderman set up a website that allows New Yorkers to report if their name and identifying info was misused to make a fraudulent net neutrality feedback comment appear legitimate. Last month, a data set analyzing the FCC’s net neutrality comments between April and October of this year revealed that more than a million anti-net neutrality comments that flooded the FCC’s system appear to have been sown by spambots, while as many as 99 percent of the legitimate comments were voicing their support of net neutrality.
“There’s no way with this set of corrupted records…[we can] have a vote based on what the American people really think,” Schneiderman said.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin / TechCrunch


As promised earlier, Target today launched its own mobile payments system with the introduction of “Wallet” in the Target app. Wallet, as the name implies, allows Target shoppers in-store to both check out using their smartphone as well as take advantage of their Cartwheel digital coupons and discounts with only one scan of their barcode.
Already, Cartwheel savings in Target’s app had worked like this – that is, after adding the discounts on selected products to your Target account using the Cartwheel feature, shoppers could present a barcode to be scanned at the point-of-sale to take advantage of the savings. The only difference between that and today, is that shoppers can now also choose to pay using their Target REDcard at the same time.
Target’s REDcard is available as both a debit card that links to customers’ bank accounts and a store credit card, and offers 5 percent back on purchases to encourage its use.
https://corporate.target.com/_media/TargetCorp/news/Video/Wallet%20in%20Target%20app/TargetWallet_v8-1x1.mp4
According to the retailer, the advantage for consumers is faster checkout – up to four times faster than “other payment types” it says, a jab at traditional payment methods like chip-and-PIN cards, for example, which are notoriously slow. (Of course, the retailer benefits, too, by pushing users to REDcard where it saves on credit card processing fees.)
In the near future, Target Wallet will also support the ability to add and pay with Target GiftCards as well, the retailer says.
Target isn’t the only major brick-and-mortar retailer with its own payments system. Walmart previously launched Walmart Pay; CVS has CVS Pay; and Kohl’s has Kohl’s Pay, for example. (Perhaps we should give Target credit for not naming its solution Target Pay.)
In addition to saving the company money by shifting consumers to store cards, in-house mobile payment solutions give retailers access to the consumer data they would have otherwise given up, had the shopper checked out with a mobile payment solution like Apple Pay, where that data is not shared.
“Wallet in the Target app makes checkout easier and faster than ever,” said Mike McNamara, Target’s chief information and digital officer, in a statement about Wallet’s launch. “Guests are going to love the convenience of having payment, Cartwheel offers, Weekly Ad coupons and GiftCards all in one place with Wallet.”
The new Wallet feature is available on both Android and iOS versions of the Target app.


Facebook and Instagram have begun testing a feature that allows you to more easily bring your Instagram contacts into Messenger. The experience, which is entirely opt-in for the app’s users, is the latest in a series of integrations between Instagram and Facebook’s properties, which has earlier included the cross-posting of Instagram Stories to Facebook as well as the ability to launch the Instagram app directly from Facebook. 
This time around, the two apps are making it simpler to sync your Instagram and Messenger accounts with one another.

In Messenger, you can now visit the People tab and tap on the new option “Connect to Instagram” to add your Instagram contacts to the list of friends you can reach with Facebook’s instant messaging application. You can also add your Instagram contacts from the Messenger sign-up flow, if you’re a new user.
Only your mutual follow contacts on Instagram will be imported, so there’s no concern that Instagram followers will now be able to spam you on Messenger, even if you don’t follow them back.

 
The option makes sense given that Instagram Messaging today is a heavily used feature – 375 million users were on Instagram Direct as of this April, for example. Presumably, these are Instagram friends you might want to chat with when on Messenger, too.
The integration is yet another example of how Facebook is leveraging its multiple mobile properties smartly to keep users in its ecosystem, and building out an even larger social network as a result. After all, not all Instagram users are Messenger users or Facebook users.
Plus, when the company combines its social graphs like this it’s able to better connect the dots when there’s overlap (potentially meaning more social data for advertisers in the long run).
Facebook and Instagram aren’t formally announcing the launch of this feature, but we understand it’s something the company has recently begun testing.
[h/t Jose Gutierrez]


A scant three months after its launch, the $50 million ConsenSys Ventures fund that was created to back companies developing applications on Ethereum (by Ethereum co-founder Joe Lubin’s ConsenSys Systems) has made its first four investments.
Created as another way to boost Ethereum adoption and back companies to get them traction in the market, the Ethereum Ventures fund hired Kavita Gupta — a rising star in the technology firmament to run its investment vehicle.
Gupta’s first commitments from the fund run the gamut — from a blockchain-based sweepstakes company to a blockchain-based esports betting service, a lending platform to provide liquidity for cryptocurrency investors and a security project to protect crypto-applications.
The fund does pre-seed, seed and token launches, according to Gupta, who would not disclose the size of the investments the firm is making.
But the companies the fund is backing come from some relatively seasoned entrepreneurs. BlockFi, the firm’s lending for liquidity startup, was founded by Zac Prince — a serial startup founder whose previous idea was the lending platform for the underbanked, Cognical.
Kavita Gupta, ConsenSys Ventures
Even more impressive is the esports betting company’s executive team, helmed by former Microsoft Bing Ventures investor Rahul Sood. Unikrn had already garnered a lot of attention from bitcoin bulls like MarK Cuban and raised $25 million in its September token sale.
That figure actually puts Unikrn on the high end for what investors these days will now stomach, says Gupta.
“There are very few ICOs or token launches that are basically going oversubscribed to those numbers,” she said referring to the heady days of over $100 million coin offerings (mind you, that was a few months ago).
The market is moving to them to a $20 million raise or a $10 million raise or a $5 million raise, Gupta said, as investors become more rational. And that’s forcing entrepreneurs to temper their own expectations. “Entrepreneurs understand that the market is way more intelligent and the FOMO is going down,” Gupta tells me.
What’s critical right now, Gupta says, is that businesses that want to leverage the blockchain think deeply about their product or service and whether pursuing a token sale even makes sense. In many cases, it may not, she said.
For Unikrn and another new investment in the stable, the sweepstakes provider Pryze, the answer of whether to token or not to token was a definite yes. But BlockFi had no need to issue tokens and took a straight equity investment. The company’s other investment, in the security space, also raised a token.
ConsenSys Ventures intends to be investing in companies outside of the ConsenSys stable, given the maturity of the company.
Gupta said that ConsenSys wants to be a long-term partner, but defines that as a six-month time frame for its holding period. Compared to venture funds, that doesn’t seem like an incredibly long time.
However, Gupta says the market is very new and the firm is taking a big risk on the entrepreneurs it backs. “This market is changing every day,” she said. “Six months is comparative to five years in a traditional venture market.”
For now the fund is a completely Ethereum-focused fund. But it could make investments on another blockchain platform if it had scale.


Popular Netflix political drama House of Cards is set to return to production early next year — but it will do so without its embattled star, Kevin Spacey. The news was confirmed by the company’s Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos on stage at UBS’s Global Media and Communications Conference this morning in New York City. 
This morning’s announcement follows news that the show halted production and ultimately severed ties with Spacey, after the actor was the latest in a long line of high-profile men to become the subject of sexual misconduct allegations. In spite of the actor’s absence, Robin Wright will star in the sixth and final season of the show, which is set to run eight episodes — five shorter than the previous seasons. 
According to The Hollywood Reporter, Sarandos promised that the sixth season of the program would offer fans “closure” on the story, though he wouldn’t disclose precisely how the show would continue on without Frank Underwood. 
The future of one of Netflix’s most popular programs has been in question since Star Trek actor Anthony Rapp went public with allegations that Spacey had made advances on the younger actor when he was 14 years old. Spacey issued an apology, “for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.”
The number of Spacey accusers has since grown to more than a dozen, though, as Rapp shared recently via Twitter, none of that news has stopped the actor from being berated on social media by angry viewers for his perceived role in the end of the show. 

Featured Image: Daniel Zuchnik/WireImage/Getty Images


Kinin is a new portable aromatherapy vaporizer that, in theory, offers a refreshing break from THC and nicotine based vapes. Multi-use products let you inhale the strange fragrances of “Narrow leaf eucalyptus,” “Polynesian kava kava,” and “nootropics.”
The product is part of the new trend toward healthier vaping and is aimed at yoga lovers and other outdoorsy folks. The product contains nothing addictive and is essentially a way to gently puff on nicer stuff than tobacco.
Created by a team in San Diego, the product costs $60 for three flavors and $22 for individual flavors including Recover (“Narrow leaf eucalyptus essential oils from Australia combine with peppermint and clary sage to sooth the nose and throat, while acting as an anti-microbial and anti-bacterial agent.”) and Relax (“A rich blend of Polynesian kava kava provides a grounding effect and sense of oneness, while the valerian root and copaiba aid in relaxation and rest.”)
Interestingly many of the same herbs you drink in tea or eat on feed can be vaped. Green tea, peppermint, and even chamomile can be vaped in most dry matter vaporizers and each offer a different effect including headache and congestion relief. While this doesn’t replace a nice bowl of sweet sweet ganja, it’s nice to know there is a clear and futuristic alternative to lighting up a Celestial Season Sleepytime teabag in your bong.


Peter Csathy
Contributor



Peter Csathy is Chairman of CREATV Media, a media innovation and advisory firm and the author of “Media 2.0 (18): An Insider’s Guide to Today’s Digital Media World & Where It’s Going”.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Netflix should be afraid of Disney’s OTT play
Top 10 digital media predictions for 2017



1. There will be blood in the escalating battle amongst premium OTT video giants, as the market becomes over-saturated, early winners and losers are declared and Netflix finds itself increasingly in everyone’s lines of sight — including Disney’s and Apple’s.
Originals continue to be the primary weapon used on the OTT video battlefront, extending digital media’s “New Golden Age” for creators. We already know that traditional pay TV providers like Comcast will enter the fray in 2018, as will Disney, when it launches its own pair of “Netflix Killers.”
But Apple almost certainly will also join the premium SVOD fray in 2018. It’s all-out war in the premium OTT video world, as cord-cutting accelerates and traditional cable and satellite providers shed more paying subs.

2. Most other new premium OTT video market entrants in this beyond-crowded premium OTT video space — including so-called niche-focused OTT video services — will be swallowed up or simply languish, squeezed out by market leaders and the sheer scale of Google and Facebook, with which they simply can’t compete for ad dollars.
Google and Facebook already own about two-thirds of that global digital advertising market. That means that most OTT video players simply cannot succeed on ad dollars alone — and other means of monetization will be beyond their reach because they fail to deliver a sufficiently compelling, differentiated and emotionally connected media experience. Winners will swallow up losers in an environment of accelerating M&A.
 3. The Hollywood community will begin to increasingly understand the power of new cost-effective technology-driven ways to test and measure new characters, stories and engagement in order to more smartly and efficiently place their big expensive bets. 
Innovative new services like comics-driven motion book company, Madefire; mobile-first horror-focused company Crypt TV; and mobile-focused text storytelling company Yarn point the way. Meanwhile, Netflix, Amazon and Facebook will continue to mine their deep data about all of our hopes and dreams to maximize “hits” and minimize “misses” as compared to traditionalists. And they will increasingly do a good job at it, as they become more confident in their creative pursuits.  

4. Spotify will go public at a lofty valuation, but those numbers and overall investor confidence will decline throughout the year, together with Pandora’s, as these two pure-play global streaming music leaders find it increasingly difficult to compete against “big box” behemoths Apple, Amazon and Google/YouTube. 
Yes, Spotify and Pandora boast massive scale. Yet scale alone does not financial success make. In fact, pure-play distribution success leads to higher and higher losses due to sobering industry economics these pure-plays can’t stomach, but the behemoths can due to their multi-pronged business models. These harsh realities mean that investors of many pure-play streaming services will take a hard look at themselves in 2018 as they contemplate their strategic next steps. Many will realize that they can’t go it alone. And that leads to M&A, which brings me to…

5. One company’s struggles are another company’s opportunity, and successful “bigger fish” will step up their M&A efforts to acquire those companies that see no long-term path to making it on their own.
M&A is a hallmark of today’s overall digital, multi-platform tech-infused transformation of the media and entertainment business. Just like AT&T made its move to acquire storied traditional Time Warner in 2016 and Verizon closed its acquisition of Yahoo! in 2017, expect some more massive deals in 2018. Right now, Fox is reported to be chased by Disney, Comcast and Verizon for OTT video-driven reasons. And don’t just look within U.S. borders — there is no virtual wall in our borderless digital media world.  6. Data finally becomes a high-profile, high-priority “missing link” in the strategies of most media and entertainment companies that will try to correct course.
Virtually all traditional media and entertainment companies now openly covet Netflix’s, Amazon’s and Facebook’s user data, as well as how those services leverage that data to their seemingly untouchable advantage. The quest for data — and the services that provide, analyze and inform — take on new urgency amongst the traditional media and entertainment ranks.

7. Brave new technologies like AI (via virtual assistants Alexa, Siri and Google) flood the mainstream and increasingly impact the worlds of media, entertainment and advertising, while blockchain technology captures industry mind-share and begins to infiltrate mainstream conversations.
The soothing voices of Alexa and Siri guide us through this AI revolution. “Virtual assistants,” “smart speakers” (or whatever you want to call them) will increasingly populate our homes, improve significantly over time and serve up our favorite content (as well as increasingly targeted and hoped-to-be “welcomed” incentives, promotions and ads).
At the same time, the voice of blockchain technology — barely acknowledged in media and entertainment circles in 2017 — will increasingly be heard and respected at the water cooler. Blockchain technology conceptually holds revolutionary and industry-transforming new offensive and defensive power. On the offensive front, blockchain will enable completely new ways to monetize content and direct creator-to-consumer distribution. And, on the defensive front, blockchain promises to eradicate piracy.
 8. Behemoths Apple, Google and Facebook will increase their already massive investments in immersive technologies, and 2018 will be AR’s break-out year in terms of mass adoption via ARKit and ARCore, which  give our mobile phones real “spatial sense” as true AR systems.
VCs and strategic investors will also continue to throw boatloads of cash into the overall immersive space. AR’s gold rush also means continued growth in the related “wearables” market and early, very early, consumer adoption of AR-driven eyewear. And, when a market together invests so heavily, a market becomes our consumer reality.

9. Basic rudimentary text-based services and audio podcasts will continue to astound in terms of both scale and counter-programming success. 
These forms of media face no significant licensing or royalty headwinds, unlike video and music streaming services. That means that all money that flows from them flows directly into the pockets of service providers. And, the most successful of these services can scale massively, meaning that monetization can be significant. Very. That’s why text-centric storytelling apps like Yarn are on fire right now.

10. The too-often-overlooked yet potentially game-changing live event and venue plank of truly 360-degree multi-platform strategies increasingly becomes noticed and offline experiments build.
Call this the “Amazon Effect,” as players across the digital media ecosystem stop scratching their heads about, and rather begin studying, Amazon’s direct-to-theater motion picture releases, brick and mortar retail stores, and Whole Foods super-stores. Amazon understands what most still haven’t even considered — that direct, non-virtual offline consumer engagement may be the most impactful plank of them all, bringing online engagement into the real world (and then back again to create a virtual cycle of brand engagement and consumer monetization every step of the way).

RELATED BONUS PREDICTION — In reaction to 2017’s sobering and frequently shocking negative societal forces, many digital media companies will take things even further by infusing their offline efforts with social impact, an inspirational and motivational element that is already proven to be commercially smart.
Such fully realized efforts hold the tantalizing power to transform digital media’s virtual cycle into a fully realized multi-platform virtuous circle. Double bottom-line — profitable both commercially, and socially. Hey, digital media companies: Don’t underestimate the power of humanizing your efforts with a healthy dose of offline “soul.”

Featured Image: Atlas social media/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


We’re here at Arena Berlin for Disrupt Berlin 2017, TechCrunch’s annual Europe event, where our stage plays host to speaker panels featuring top figures in tech and, of course, our Startup Battlefield competition.
Preceding the Disrupt conference, hundreds of engineers and designers combined into 45 teams for a Hackathon, during which teams presented creative hacks born during the 24 hour event. You can read about the winners and runners-up here. 
In case you missed any of the speaker panels or Startup Battlefield presentations, here they are in one place.
DAY 1
Ole Harms of MOIA discusses the company’s first year and what’s next
 


In conversation with Ana Izquierdo (Talent Clue), Alicia Navarro (Skimlinks) and Johannes Reck (GetYourGuide)
 


Fireside Chat with Cal Henderson (Slack)
 


In conversation with Tania Boler (Elvie)
 


In conversation with Thomas Korte (AngelPad), Andy McLoughlin (Uncork Capital) and Timo Rein (Pipedrive)
 


Startup Battlefield Session 1
Lia Diagnostics presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Notch presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


AI Spotter presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Nexto presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Trillium presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Lucas von Cranach of Onefootball speaks about building a global audience
 


Startup Battlefield Session 2
Wandlebots presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


FTCash presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


QEDit presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Etrack presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Reason8 presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield
 


Index Ventures spells out the ABCs of investing
 


Mona El Isa of Melonport and Tim Zagar of Iconomi on how Europe and the developing world are using Blockchain tech
 


Fireside Chat with Kavita Gupta (ConsenSys Capital)
 


In conversation with Samantha Jérusalmy (Elaia Partners), Frédéric Mazzella (BlaBlaCar) and Mounia Rkha (Isai Ventures)
 


Startup Battlefield Session 3
Caspar presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


The Sun Exchange presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


WICASTR presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


Blik presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


Proof Work presents at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield 
 


 
DAY 2
Ida Tin of Clue speaks about female health
 


Driving mainstream adoption of blockchain with Jutta Steiner and Gavin Wood of Parity Technologies
 


Why Berlin will be the startup capital of the future
 


Ulrich Spiesshofer of ABB discusses the push toward robotics factories
 


On stage demo with Ultrahaptics at Disrupt Berlin
 


Connecting the professional world of science with ResearchGate at Disrupt Berlin
 


Neufund co-founder and founder of KR1 discuss building businesses based on the blockchain
 


How Eligo Bioscience is treating diseases without the need for antibiotics
 


How startups are hoping to ride the wave of flying cars
 


Startup Battlefield Finals
Blik presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


Caspar Health presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


eTrack Tech presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


Lia Diagnostics presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


Wandelbots presents in the Startup Battlefield Finals
 


How Ada Health aims to improve access to healthcare globally through the use of AI
 


The future of commercial drones with Parrot, Sky Futures, and Uavia
 


How MessageBird is staying ahead of consumer’s expectations
 


Lia Diagnostics wins Disrupt Berin Startup Battlefield 


Raising a Series A is hard for a founder. Especially when you consider they’re usually doing it for the first time, while the VCs on the other side of the table are essentially professional negotiators getting pitched and doing deals every day.
So to help give founders a leg up Justin Kan’s new legal tech startup Atrium is launching a program to help founders become better fundraisers.
Called Atrium Academy, the free two-day program pairs new founders with seasoned entrepreneurs and VCs to learn best tips on negotiation, building demand and a narrative and raising in general. It’s almost like YC’s startup school, but instead of bringing in enterprising students and convincing them to start a company Atrium is bringing in established companies and helping them raise a Series A or first major round of funding.
The startup ran a trial program last month and had 130 applications that were whittled down to 12 founders from around the world who flew in for the program. While there’s no set number of how many the program will accept, Kan made it clear that founders had to be running successful companies on track to soon raise a round.

Accepted founders were able to spend time in office hours with VCs from firms like Accel, General Catalyst and Initialized Capital and also see presentations and fireside talks from entrepreneurs who have had success raising Series A rounds.
Startups also were able to meet with Atrium’s lawyers for counseling and legal preparation specifically for the financing process. All attendees also receive discounted legal services if they choose to use Atrium as their law firm. Of course some may say that this is all just a lead generation tactic to get more companies using Atrium as their lawyer when they decide to raise a Series A.
Kan didn’t totally dismiss this idea – instead saying that it’s more realistically “very indirect lead generation”. Certainly Atrium won’t be able to sign up all of these companies – some may already have lawyers from a seed round, and other may never end up raising or just decide not to use Atrium. But Kan sees the program as a great way to build goodwill for his company while at the same time getting to help the startup ecosystem in general, regardless of how much direct payback it results in.
Atrium plans on hosting four batches a year going forward, with the first being January 13th, 2018. Applications are open now.


There has been a veritable explosion of connected devices that people are using these days to interact with apps and the internet, from smartphones and computers, to cars, watches, home speakers and refrigerators. Now a startup out of Berlin called Contentful has raised $28 million to position itself as the platform to manage how all that information is delivered via a set of APIs.
The Series C funding is led by General Catalyst, the VC that last year raised an $845 million fund on the back of its strong track record with Stripe, Snapchat, Kayak and other so-called Unicorn startups pushing past a billion-dollar valuation by some way. Others in the round include Benchmark Capital, Balderton Capital, and Point Nine Capital — all repeat backers of the startup. It brings the total raised by Contentful to $45 million, and we asked but the company is not disclosing its valuation except to say that it is an upround.
When many people today think of cloud-based content management systems (CMS), the names that likely come to mind are WordPress (which we use), or Medium (which people leaving their companies like to use), or Tumblr (which is owned by the same company that owns TC).
Contentful can provide some of the same functionalities as these but it’s aimed at a different end: CEO and co-founder Sascha Konietzke describes it as a “headless” CMS, not unlike Stripe’s relationship to payments: there is no front end for ingesting and formatting content, or design end for producing the final look of that content for the reader. Instead, there are a set of APIs that developers of the media product in question can use to control both of those aspects more flexibly.
“Existing CMSs are like the MS-DOS of the internet,” Konietzke said. “No one really likes to use them, similar to older payment systems before Stripe.”
First rolled out in beta in 2013, the idea has proven itself to be, in fact, very prescient. While we still do get a lot of our information from reading words published on paper or the web, the number of screens has exploded, and they are now accompanied by a whole new wave of voice-based interfaces on devices like the Amazon Echo, the Google Home or the HomePod from Apple, and visual and gesture-based interfaces by way of virtual reality hardware.
All of these take the idea of “content” but more specifically how we interact with it to a new dimension, and the idea of creating set of tools to deliver (or ingest) information efficiently, regardless of the platform, could end up becoming a key component of bringing these devices into the mainstream, not just with users needing more compelling reasons to use them, but media/gaming/content/any companies that are considering them as platforms for their business but do not want to spend an arm and a let figuring out how to use them regularly and well.
The company has 130,000 developers using its platform, with “thousands” of paying customers and many more free users (it’s a freemium product). Customers include Uber, Lyft, Samsung and Spotify, as well as companies you do not think of as “content” providers like WeWork, and a number of digital agencies (native content!) like R/GA and AKQA — in sum, “digital teams building digital products like mobile apps and using our APIs to power them.”
It’s notable that General Catalyst is backing them. The company has made some very smart calls on other quiet but powerful backend aggregators and service providers that provide essential B2B2C tools, such as Stripe and Kayak.
“At General Catalyst, we focus on user-centric products that have the potential to become hugely useful in enterprises,” said Trevor Oelschig, Managing Director at General Catalyst, in a statement. “Contentful is among this new ecosystem of platform services, which provide a fundamentally new infrastructure for building modern applications.”
The Berlin-based startup will be using the money to hire more and expand its product, and to build its business in the US, where it already has 60-70 percent of its business.




Featured Image: John Lund/Getty Images


“I get asked a lot… is this another dot-com bubble,” said Mona El Isa, the chief executive and co-founder of Melonport, onstage at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin. “And, um… my response usually… goes something like… so what if it is?”
For El Isa, who runs a company developing blockchain-regulated investment funds, and her fellow panelist, Tim Zagar, the chief executive of ICONOMI, the question isn’t about the bubble or when it bursts. The question is about setting up systems to better support whatever comes next.
Both of them insist that the overheating token-offering marketplace is cooling down and that a rationalization has come to token investing.
For El Isa, the bursting of the tech bubble in 2000 wasn’t the beginning of the tech industry, it was the end of the beginning. And, for the rest of us, history supports her thesis.
“The dot-com bubble was messy, but if we look at some of the largest companies that exist today they are a result of the dot-com bubble and they are part of our everyday lives,” El Isa said.
Mona El Isa, CEO and co-founder, Melonport
What bitcoin is providing, according to ICONOMI’s chief executive, is exposure to the possibility of value creation through cryptocurrency. Bitcoin becomes a gateway to the use of Ether, which creates opportunities to develop new technologies and services.
“Bitcoin is the introduction of blockchain accounting and Ethereum is the beginning of blockchain computing,” El Isa said. “The next logical step is that now we build software on top of these.”
The construction of the next generation of software companies, based on the blockchain, will require the input of regulators, says Zagar. “We are also talking with a few different regulators in Europe and helping them structure the setup and the rules,” he said.
The market needs some oversight, says Zagar. “The main concern [for regulators] is to protect investors. You don’t want to have scams and crazy projects. That’s extremely bad for our industry.”
El Isa agreed, saying that transparency for investors is important… and included a plug for her own technology. “You want to have technology regulate investment funds and remove the conflicts of interest in these processes.”
Both panelists agreed that the hype has outstripped the capacity of the technology to support it, and that the flurry of coin offerings raising at billion-dollar valuations had actually already abated.
ICONOMI chief executive and co-founder Tim Zagar
For Zagar, the move is toward the direction of how traditional startups were making money. No longer can projects count on a white paper and a solid team to generate investment interest. “The team needs to demonstrate a little bit more of the product,” he said.
“The bubble burst in the summer,” says Zagar, whose company provides a way for investors to finance digital assets. “Two or three vendors made a smart contract and made a bunch of money… This is over.”


Tel Aviv-based Proof Work is envisioning a future where patients own and control their own medical data in a decentralized system, where data is secured by the blockchain. The system, if successful, would be a big disruption to how health care data is handled today – where it’s often accessible only by the doctors and hospitals themselves, and where patients have to make special requests to have a copy of their own medical records.
In addition, today’s data isn’t easily shared between doctors. That means patients visiting a new doctor will often have to repeat their medical history all over again, or explain their current ailments.
Proof Work, which presented today onstage as the wildcard company at Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield, believes the system should be simpler. The company is building tools that will allow healthcare companies to put their apps and services on the blockchain, as well as a tool – likely in the form of a mobile app first – that will allow patients to upload their own medical data to this blockchain-powered system.
“It’s a big try,” admits co-founder David Suter. “But we want to go patient-first.”
“As somebody who walks into a doctor or a hospital, there are many moving parts that are put into place behind the scenes in order to make sure we get the right level of care, the right treatment. All those moving parts are siloed,” Suter says. “What blockchain allows through smart contracts is to put all those moving parts on a longitudinal line in order to talk to each other.”
In the future, the goal is to allow patients to walk into a doctor’s office with all their medical records already on their phone.
“It’s a big undertaking; It’s not going to happen overnight,” he adds.



tc_disrupt_berlin-proof-work-3159




tc_disrupt_berlin-proof-work-3161




ProofWork-0243




ProofWork-0245




tc_disrupt_berlin-proof-work-3162




ProofWork-0246




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


In addition, patients – not doctors – should get to decide what happens to those records, says Suter. Today, doctors will have patients sign agreements to allow them to share their medical data. In some cases, that includes allowing healthcare companies to sell anonymized medical data to pharmaceutical companies. With Proof Work, patients could choose to contribute their data or sell it, and the transactions would be transparent.
The company’s starting point for this larger idea of medical records powered by the blockchain is  a mobile app focused on non-adherence – meaning, the app will remind users to take their current medications through push notifications.
This isn’t the first attempt to use technology to fix the problem with medical records; others have tried to centralize records for easier access, including Microsoft HealthVault, for example.
One of the challenges getting prior systems to work was that healthcare companies aren’t necessarily interested in making it easier for patients to have access to their own medical records, says Suter. After all, the patients could go to another provider.
Suter believes the companies would be more willing to participate in a system like Proof Work, because they’ll have access to more data, because Proof Work users can choose to sell and share their data with them – where they’re paid for those transfers in Proof Work’s coin.
Proof Work is planning an ICO in six months to create its own coin that will allow the data to be traded. Insurance companies could then incentivize patients to take their medications by offering to pay them with the coin. The longer-term monetization plan is to take a small percentage of the transactions on its platform, including these data transfers or incentives.
The company, co-founded by Guy Aharonovsky, whose background is in cyber security, hopes to have its first application for consumers out in six months.


Knowing what’s in your warehouse, where certain items are stored and where they are in the production process is highly valuable information for any manufacturer. But today, gathering this information is typically done with barcodes and scanners — and scanning these codes can take up a large part of a worker’s day.
Blik, which is presenting in the TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin Startup Battlefield today, aims to modernize this process and make it as hands-off as possible by using a combination of wireless sensors and indoor location tracking.
The founding team of Bastian Burger (CEO), Victoria Hauzeneder (CTO) and Phillip Eller (COO) launched the company about a year ago. At the time, they were studying at the Technische Universität München (TUM) and working closely with BMW through a combination of internships and various university programs. The team realized that BMW’s systems for warehouse logistics left a few things to be desired. The result was a first (and very hacky) version of Blik that mostly relied on Raspberry Pis and other (largely ZigBee-based) hardware that was mostly meant for home automation.
“We started talking to BMW — but it wasn’t just BMW that needed this solution,” Eller told me. “We realized that there was a big need for this track and trace technology.”



blik-0239




blik-0240




blik-0241




blik-0235




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


To expand beyond these first prototypes, the Blik team now builds its own hardware, after having already built its own software stack. The hardware, which the company plans to offer as part of a software-as-a-service subscription, combines the sensors that sit on the load carriers inside the warehouse and a receiver system to receive the pulses that these sensors emit at regular intervals.
To determine the position of a sensor inside the warehouse (where GPS doesn’t work and where Bluetooth isn’t practical), the team first needs to scan the warehouse and gather enough data to allow for triangulating the position of the sensors. The team tells me that it can then determine the position with about a 5-meter accuracy. Because the system also tracks the equipment’s steps through the manufacturing process, that’s more than enough accuracy for most users. Because most of Blik’s potential users currently use SAP, the team also worked closely with SAP to integrate their systems, but it also offers a standard Rest API for those who want to build their own integrations.
In addition to working inside of warehouses, Blik’s users could also install receivers on their trucks to keep track of their products while they are on the road.
Right now, Blik is mostly working with car manufacturers like BMW and Volkswagen’s MAN group. In total, the company has signed six deals so far, which typically start with a two- to six-month pilot phase.
The team, which dropped out of college to start this company, has received about $170,000 in government grants and another $240,000 in revenue from its pilot projects with its first users. The founders, who recently hired their first employee, are now looking to raise additional money to expand and bring on new users.


Netflix has a new sci-fi series coming that’s likely to please fans of the genre. The trailer for the show is now available, giving you an introduction to the guiding concept of the show – basically people have figured out how to download their entire consciousness into new bodies so you can effectively live forever – provided you have enough money, I suspect.
The new show is called ‘Altered Carbon,’ and is based on the novel of the same name. It takes place in the future, and essentially involves a detective story in which a resurrected detective investigates the attempted murder of the world’s richest man.
It looks like it’s definitely going to aim for a Blade Runner-esque visual aesthetic, and maybe a similar soundtrack, too. Looks fun, though, and I imagine the tale of where they get the ‘sleeves’ for the consciousness transplants is going to be particularly good dramatic fodder. Also, sci-fi series regular Dichen Lachman is in the trailer, so that’s great.



















		( function() {
			var func = function() {
				var iframe_form = document.getElementById('wpcom-iframe-form-32a74ed857434a99c399d6b669799129-5a2a84af2b2e8');
				var iframe = document.getElementById('wpcom-iframe-32a74ed857434a99c399d6b669799129-5a2a84af2b2e8');
				if ( iframe_form && iframe ) {
					iframe_form.submit();
					iframe.onload = function() {
						iframe.contentWindow.postMessage( {
							'msg_type': 'poll_size',
							'frame_id': 'wpcom-iframe-32a74ed857434a99c399d6b669799129-5a2a84af2b2e8'
						}, window.location.protocol + '//wpcomwidgets.com' );
					}
				}

				// Autosize iframe
				var funcSizeResponse = function( e ) {
					var origin = document.createElement( 'a' );
					origin.href = e.origin;

					// Verify message origin
					if ( 'wpcomwidgets.com' !== origin.host )
						return;

					// Verify message is in a format we expect
					if ( 'object' !== typeof e.data || undefined === e.data.msg_type )
						return;

					switch ( e.data.msg_type ) {
						case 'poll_size:response':
							var iframe = document.getElementById( e.data._request.frame_id );

							if ( iframe && '' === iframe.width )
								iframe.width = '100%';
							if ( iframe && '' === iframe.height )
								iframe.height = parseInt( e.data.height );

							return;
						default:
							return;
					}
				}

				if ( 'function' === typeof window.addEventListener ) {
					window.addEventListener( 'message', funcSizeResponse, false );
				} else if ( 'function' === typeof window.attachEvent ) {
					window.attachEvent( 'onmessage', funcSizeResponse );
				}
			}
			if (document.readyState === 'complete') { func.apply(); /* compat for infinite scroll */ }
			else if ( document.addEventListener ) { document.addEventListener( 'DOMContentLoaded', func, false ); }
			else if ( document.attachEvent ) { document.attachEvent( 'onreadystatechange', func ); }
		} )();


Earlier today at the TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin event, founder Timo Rein took the stage alongside venture capitalists Andy McLoughlin of the early-stage firm Uncork Capital and Thomas Korte of the accelerator AngelPad.
The grouping wasn’t accidental. Rein, a former salesman who founded his CRM software company Pipedrive in 2010, launched the company in his home country of Estonia, soon after which McLoughlin and Korte persuaded him to come to San Francisco. (McLoughlin wrote him an early check as an angel investor; Korte then convinced him to pass through AngelPad’s twice yearly company-building program.)
The decision appears to have paid off for Pipedrive, which now employs 300 people in New York, Estonia, Portugal and the U.K., and which has raised roughly $31 million in funding to date. But it was a huge risk for Rein, and scaling has been far more difficult than founders with just one office might imagine.
You can click on the video at page bottom to see the full conversation, but some highlights that we found particularly instructive follow.
On foreign founders who are willing to move to Silicon Valley:
Korte said that the mere act of moving to the U.S. sets apart a lot of founders in his mind, a sentiment that McLoughlin echoed. “We now have more than 200 companies that we’ve invested in over 15 years,” said McLoughlin. “And when I look at the incidents of either immigrants or first-generation immigrants, they are far and away our star performers.”
Added McLoughlin, “I think that when you move to Silicon Valley, you’ll move mountains to make your company successful, because this is your shot. If you screw up, you have to go home.”
Certainly, the move wasn’t easy for Rein, who stayed in the Bay Area for four years after graduating from AngelPad, which resulted in four years of 5 a.m. phone calls with employees who remained in Estonia, located in the Eastern European Time Zone. (That’s 10 hours ahead.)
It was undoubtedly lonely at times, too, with Rein describing “finding Europeans” in the Bay Area as “a good feeling,” explaining that it was easier for him to feel that they were “real.” Said Rein with a laugh, a “lot of [people] in California, they’re way too friendly with you and you don’t know if they’re being [genuine or otherwise].”
It isn’t just the founders’ bravery that the venture capitalists said they admired. Korte commented on the “fiscal responsibility that Europeans have, because they’re so used to building their companies with relatively little money, or knowing they might not get another round.” Rein said he wasn’t sure if had a particular-type mindset because of his Estonian heritage, but he noted that questions Europeans tend to ask include, ” ‘How is this a business,’ rather than, ‘Let’s see if something flies.’ In the U.S., it’s ‘What could the next big dream be?’ ”
On the potential downsides of deciding to head to the U.S.:
Both Korte and McLoughlin said they strongly encourage the European founders they want to fund to move to the U.S. McLoughlin teasingly called VCs “inherently very lazy.” But he also said that — no joke — Uncork won’t fund entrepreneurs who aren’t willing to pull up stakes and move. (Korte won’t either.) Explained McLoughlin, “We want companies to be incorporated in Delaware [for legal reasons] but we also want them to be close. Most of the value that early-stage VCs provide is hands-on help with hiring and strategy and pricing and go-to-market and everything else, and it’s hard to do that if you aren’t in the same room.
“We maybe have the scar tissue, too, of companies that didn’t move and it’s been much harder for them to accelerate,” continued McLoughlin.
Rein clearly thinks spending time in California — before later relocating the company’s U.S. headquarters to time-zone friendlier New York — was well worth it.
But Rein has also managed to resist raising the kind of money that Silicon Valley VCs like to put to work and that can sometimes either drown a company or else force them to seek out far larger outcomes for their investors.
Korte pointed, for example, to one of his portfolio startups, DroneDeploy, a four-year-old drone mapping and analytics platform that has also raised $31 million to date. The company was founded by three South African founders who were living in the U.K. when Korte found them, and he says they moved to the U.S. because they “felt the best engineering they could find was at these [local] companies.” That said, Korte noted that even with similar funding pictures, DroneDeploy has “nowhere near the revenue or customers” that Pipedrive currently has, calling it a “trade-off” to be in more expensive (and often more demanding) Silicon Valley.

Other reasons not to move, said the panelists, include operating in a geography that has come to produce specialists in a certain kind of tech, like fintech and AI in the U.K. For many technologies, said McLoughlin, Silicon Valley is “probably the best place in the world” to live. For others, he acknowledged, “You can come and spend a lot of money and spin your wheels and actually be worse off than if you’d stayed in your home market and executed well there.”
Why expanding is more complicated than it looks — no matter which geography a founder chooses:
Asked how Rein manages four offices in different countries and maintains any semblance of a company culture, he was candid, saying it’s incredibly hard. “You almost have to look away from cultures and to what makes a human being a great person and a great [professional] and make that almost your guiding light as you hire.” It’s a challenge to pull off, largely because “people come from a national culture, and they tend to think [their culture] is the default, like, ‘This is how Brits look at the world, and it’s probably more right than [how someone else] looks at it.’ And Germans have that. Estonians have that,” he continued.
“The question is how you remove that default-level thinking,” Rein said, but it’s “not easy, especially when you look around the world in terms of what’s going on right now — the sensitivity in terms of what’s wrong and what’s not wrong in different societies.”
Managing far-flung offices is a pain operationally, too, noted McLoughlin, who’d previously co-founded the collaboration software company Huddle, which operated out of more than one office before selling in late summer by a private equity firm.
Pointing to Rein, he noted that it’s “easy to look at what these guys are doing and their four offices and [the fact that] they’re doing so well and conclude, ‘Oh, it must be really f_cking easy to have a multi-office situation.’ ” But having two offices isn’t twice as hard, said McLoughlin. Instead, he offered, “It’s like 10 times as hard, especially if you throw in a 10-hour time difference and then you add a third and fourth office. The amount of time and money and emotion that you put into your communications infrastructure is insane.”
One last challenge — and hardly the least of them — is catering to customers in different markets. Indeed, on stage today, Rein announced that Pipedrive just opened its second data center in Germany, years after opening its first in Chicago.
The reason: “People have differences toward everything” depending on where they live, he said.
Germany in particular is “amazingly sensitive toward data,” he continued, saying Pipedrive had “worked around” the issue as long as it could, but now it can far more easily serve Europe. That’s true from a compliance standpoint but also because it can now reassure its customers that it takes seriously their concerns about how their data is treated, said Rein.
More below.



(Pictured above, from left to right: Rein, McLoughlin, and Korte.)


Content distribution is hard. You want to keep enough of it close enough to favorite customers so they don’t have to wait and reduce latency for new data. That’s why WICASTR created the SMART Edge Platform, a system for sending content to the very edges of the network, including compatible local routers and access points.
“WICASTR is an ‘all in one solution’ for edge computing,” said founder Armine Saidi. “We are like Android ecosystem but for access points, routers and other edge devices: we have hardware, operating system and app store solutions to develop or deploy applications at the extreme edge with a simple 1-click solution.”
The company raised $1 million and went through TechStars. Their edge platform was inspired by the events of the Arab Spring. The founders wanted to create a system that would sustain damage caused by governments trying to shut down networks.
“The team embarked on a mission to create technology to facilitate seamless and uninterrupted communications and content distribution via all smart devices in the event of deliberate mobile network shutdown by governments,” said Saidi. This means devices on the network can act as content providers, thereby ensuring data can’t go down during an attack.
The team has been together for seven years and they have “deep domain expertise in IoT, wireless, software, hardware development, manufacturing and distribution.” They’ve launched with over 20 paying clients and work with Intel, Cisco, and Deutsche Telekom to build out powerful edge delivery.


Solar power could transform small communities around the world, but remote villages can’t always scrape together the thousands of dollars required to install the requisite cells. The Sun Exchange wants to change that by leveraging the hearts and wallets of hobby investors who cover the installation costs and then have their share of the revenue trickle in for years to come. There’s even a cryptocurrency!
The whole thing, as explained onstage at Disrupt Berlin today, works like this. First, the Sun Exchange and its partners (solar companies in various sun-drenched locations around the world) locate projects where a small installation — think less than a megawatt — could make a big impact, for instance rural clinics or villages with inconsistent power.
The installation is planned and priced out, and this info is put online at a dedicated page. At that point people can purchase a number of the solar cells in the facility, from a few bucks’ worth to a major investment.
Once the costs are covered, the array is constructed and put online within 60 days, its power provided to the community for a usage fee like any utility and investors (and the company) get a part of that fee proportionate to their ownership of the array. And it really is ownership: “You’re now the proud owner of some solar cells soaking up glorious African sunshine,” the FAQ reads, and the Sun Exchange just handles the leasing and fee collection. (And insurance and paperwork, of course.)
Ideally, it’s a win-win situation. The local community gets reliable, cheap power, and you get a steady (if small) source of income essentially coming straight from the sun.
Founder Abraham Cambridge started working on the business years ago, raising a little money on Indiegogo and building a prototype with it in early 2016. But it was only when he got a bit of angel money that summer (from BoostVC) that he began making it into a real business. A $1.6 million seed round announced last month ought to keep the lights on (though that shouldn’t be a problem with all that solar power).
“Our main goal is to make the deal look attractive enough to encourage customers to take money out of existing investments that are backing fossil fuels and be put into solar energy,” Cambridge told me. “It’s up to you to decide whether it’s a worthwhile investment.”
There’s also the feel-good factor, which can’t be dismissed. These are investments that might otherwise never have been made. As Cambridge pointed out to me, they’re well below the megawatt scale that established power companies would prefer to deploy. And decentralizing ownership is not just a good idea, it’s only possible right now through small deployments of renewables with manageable costs.
The cryptocurrency side of things isn’t a gimmick. It’s a way to move small amounts of capital from (say) the U.S. to South Africa without fiddling about too much with exchanges and bank fees. You can do a traditional currency exchange in order to pay in rand or another local currency, but that means your returns will be in that currency as well, so you’ll have to convert back if you want to get paid. Using bitcoin can certainly make simple purchases more complicated than they need to be, but for good-size international money transfers, it’s a pretty nice instrument.
And then there’s SolarCoin: it’s another cryptocurrency, one that is awarded to you as a solar power operator for every megawatt-hour of juice your cells generate. They’re not particularly valuable (currently around 50 cents per coin) but hey, it adds up.



theSunExchange-0227




theSunExchange-0226




theSunExchange-0223




theSunExchange-0228




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Cambridge has been refining things and smoothing out obstacles since the idea struck him, but said that more than anything the interest shown by users has vindicated the model.
“I spent the first year of the business mapping out obstacles and so the model we’ve been running with is pretty resilient,” he told me when I asked how he had improved things compared with the early stages. “What is stronger is people signing up and using the service, proving wrong the naysayers who said that no one would want to buy solar panels in this way and that bitcoin was a fad.”
The skyrocketing price of bitcoin has also led to larger-than-expected transaction fees, meaning he’s had to adjust the funding process a bit. But Cambridge is confident that will work itself out. In the meantime, the site and service are live, as are the initial successful installations. If you’d like to bring a little light into someone’s life and maybe make a buck off it, you can sign up at The Sun Exchange now.


Caspar Health, a startup launching today at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin, wants to make access to rehabilitative care easier and more accessible. The digital platform allows doctors to assign customizable therapy treatment plans to patients following an injury, surgery or other medical event, like a stroke, which patients can then access using an app on their mobile device.
The company was founded two years ago by longtime friends Maximilian Michels, and serial entrepreneurs Benjamin Pochhammer and Maximilian von Waldenfels, who sold their last company Food Express to Takeaway.com.
Michels, who has a background in healthcare, came up with the idea for Caspar Health because he saw a need to make first-class healthcare something that’s available to anyone – even if limited by geography or a lack of therapy providers in the patient’s area.
“He realized, via a research study [the hospital he managed] did with a large reimbursement stakeholder, that the way rehabilitation has been conducted is still very ineffective, and there’s no digital component integrated into the patient treatment procedure,” von Waldenfels explains.

To use the system, a doctor or therapist would log on to the platform after seeing the patient and confirming their diagnosis. For example, they may want to assign specific treatments or therapies for someone recovering from knee surgery, back pain or a heart attack. After entering the patient’s information and medical condition, Caspar Health automatically generates a treatment plan for the patient, which the doctor can then optionally customize to meet the patient’s needs.
These treatment plans are created in-house and offer everything from instructional videos (e.g. physical therapy/exercises, tutorials on how to use crutches, etc.), to information on the illness or injury itself. Patients can read the information and watch videos from a mobile application that runs on their phone or tablet, and give feedback about how the exercise or other therapy went to allow doctors to adjust the plans accordingly.
At launch, there are some 1,000 videos available and the system is in use in 64 hospitals across Germany, including a couple of the largest hospital groups. This makes Caspar Health accessible by over 100,000 potential patients. So far, 6,500 have signed up.
Caspar Health is sold as an enterprise software-as-a-service subscription, where facilities pay a monthly subscription fee as well as a fee per patient. Notably, Caspar Health’s treatments are reimbursed by the largest reimbursement stakeholders, meaning the medical facilities are receiving the same amount of money per session as a face-to-face treatment.
The larger goal is to make Caspar Health available to other markets outside Germany, especially those where there’s a large population that doesn’t have access to therapists and doctors for their condition, or who can’t afford in-office visits.
Today, Caspar Health is also launching internationally, and is available in four languages: English, German, Mandarin, and Cantonese.
The startup is backed by 3 million euro in seed funding from Atlantic Labs (Christophe Maire), Think.Health, and other family offices.


New research from Draper into technology that could build a self-return system into spacesuits would produce a significant leap in astronaut safety during activities in outer space. Draper researchers filed a patent for an automated ‘take-me-home’ feature that would turn spacesuits from mostly manual affairs to something that could guide itself back to safe shelter in the case of an accident.
Once triggered, either by the astronaut themselves, or by another crew member or even ground station staff, the spacesuit’s built-in thrusters would autonomously guide itself back to a designated safe location. It’s designed around the challenges of navigating in outer space, where there is no GPS, and it has to take into account conditions that might impact survivability, including remaining oxygen level and fuel available for the thrusters.
Even if the system doesn’t have to take over entirely, it can provide guidance to an astronaut inside using visual cues on a HUD that shows up on the spacesuit visor. It can also provide audio ‘turn-by-turn’ directions, as well as even tactile feedback to provide proper instructions in case something happens during extra-vehicular activity (EVA) and there’s cause for deviation from the standard plan.
It’s not just for space, however – this could also find application in fields including emergency response, and skydiving, Draper says. Plus, it could be combined with some of its other research into spacesuit tech, including boots and gloves that pass on sensor data to the wearer within to give them heightened senses.
Often, current spacesuits are essentially hindrances to their wearers, but Draper and others are working on making them augmentation devices, rather than obstacles to be dealt with and worked around. That’ll be a big help if we ever want to make a go of colonizing Mars, or even of properly commercializing space closer to home.


European VC firm Index Capital is just over two decades old and has 200+ companies in its investment portfolio at this point — but it’s still got work to do on the gender balance front.
“It should be half,” agreed general partner Jan Hammer, discussing the company’s gender balance here at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin.
Session moderator Josh Constine had pointed out that the team page on Index’s website includes just two women…
 
“I think we need to revise our website,” responded Hammer initially, noting that Index in fact has five women working as investment professionals — two as principles — though its nine partners are all men.
But he added: “Arguably it could be improved.”
Hammer said Index has instigated a policy that’s aimed at trying to accelerate better gender balance.
“For every position and for every hiring decision we have to have equality of gender. And secondly for every finalist interview we have to have at least one of each gender,” he said, noting the policy has been put in place “in the last couple of years”.
“Obviously it’s a topic that applies to far broader than just the venture industry. It’s the financial industry at large. But also our portfolio companies.”
“If you look at associate principles, we’re pretty much there,” added Index’s Martin Mignot, who was also on the panel. “You have to understand that it takes six, seven, eight years to go from associate to partner — so it just takes time for that to trickle down.”

They were also asked about the issue of sexual harassment which has blown up publicly at multiple companies in the tech space this year, including some investment firms. Index itself has never had to face any enforcement situations relating to sexual harassment, they said.
“The one difference between Index and maybe some other partnerships is that we work as a team and no portfolio company is ever sort of stranded with just one point of contact,” said Hammer discussing the harassment issue. “We operate with a system of a shadow partner on every deal. So you always have two partners.”
During the session they also discussed differences between the investment ecosystem in Europe vs the US, and touched on some areas of investment focus — including fintech, where Hammer noted that some functions that have historically been beyond the reach of startups “because of capital intensity” are now coming into range.
“One stat to quote: The number 50 bank ranked by market cap in the world has a $38BN value. Which sort of shows how far the ceiling is,” he said on that, adding: “The sky’s the limit… There’s everything to play for.”
On technologies that Index views as ‘underhyped’, Mignot noted that the firm has been doing more in the health tech space — flagging its investment in Swedish telemedicine app startup KRY, for example.
“It feels like the very early days of fintech,” he said. “Maybe where you’re still trying to find your way around a very complex regulatory environment — but things are slowly opening up, and government are maybe now becoming more favorable, creating some sandbox environments where startups can start to test and iterate.
“And it feels like that’s one that’s going to open massively in the next few years.”


Star Wars has had a strange smartphone history. The franchise was a no brainer for the Motorola Droid — Verizon actually had to license the name from Lucasfilm, so it follows that a few R2-D2 handsets followed over the years. More recently, Sharp, of all companies, scored the rights in time for Rogue One.
With The Last Jedi a mere weeks away, it’s OnePlus’s time to shine, with a Star Wars-branded edition of the 5T, first spotted by The Verge. The Shenzhen-based company is another odd choice — it’s hardly a household name, after all. And the OnePlus 5T Star Wars Limited Edition name isn’t just marketing — at the moment, at least, it appears the phone is only going to be available in India, starting a day before The Last Jedi hits theaters there on December 15.

The 5T is a great budget phone, as we mentioned in our recent review, and it looks like the company hasn’t altered the design language too much to Star Wars it up. There’s a small logo on the rear of the device, and a matching red side button. 
The accompanying video, which debuted at Bengaluru Comic Con, highlights the color theme, which obviously takes a cue from Kylo Ren’s lightsaber — part a likely overall Dark Side focus for the new film. There appears to be limited edition wallpaper on the device — and if past Star Wars phones are any indication, there will be other exclusive content on the phone to further the theme. But even if it doesn’t, again, the 5T is a solid phone, Star Wars or no. 
TheOnePlus 5T Star Wars Limited Edition will be launched at a OnePlus event in Mumbai on December 14 at an event that features all sorts of other Star Wars swag. We’ve reached out to OnePlus to see if the company has plans to launch the phone elsewhere — though the nature of the license on this one might mean no availability for users far, far away.


Roy Bahat
Contributor



Roy Bahat is the head of Bloomberg Beta.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Who will find the first silver unicorn?
Even The Org Chart Is Now Made Of Software



Consciously or not, founders’ attitudes toward money play an enormous role in how they run their startups. These attitudes shape whether to bet on a new line of business, how much to charge a customer, how to handle investor capital, even how to talk to employees about pay.
Not to mention the biggest decision of all: when (or if) to sell.
Picture a first-time founder who grew up with nothing, eating hot dogs every night for dinner because that’s all her family could afford — and imagine her startup takes off.
Compare that to another founder, running an identical startup in a parallel universe — except she went to private school and will one day inherit the big family house.
Now imagine some common startup scenarios: a recruit who asks for a few million in equity to join the company, an acquisition offer that makes the founders one percenters, or an employee insisting on flying business class on a long trip. Those two founders might see those situations much differently.

Despite this, it’s taboo for investors to ask about a founder’s own money, and for understandable reasons. Many founders worry about revealing they come from a background of less — not everyone has a mom and dad ready to pay rent in the quest to get “ramen profitable.”
It’s scary when you’re already in the vulnerable position of fundraising to consider making yourself more vulnerable by sharing that you have needs. It could be a relative who has medical bills, a parent who is in debt, a bank balance with no commas. Founders who come from difficult backgrounds shoulder so many other burdens — this stacks on another, and it feels safer to stay silent.
A founder’s attitude toward money becomes the dark matter of the startup universe. Its gravity pulls on companies, guiding founder choices, and yet we can never quite make it out.
If we can find a way to be transparent about this (and our fund tries to be an extremist on transparency in the name of building trust), it might help.
A frank discussion about money can especially help founders who are in need. Investors can alleviate financial pressures, long before an exit, freeing up the founder to focus on the business.
Doing so benefits investors as much as founders — after all, a company’s a lot more likely to succeed if its founder isn’t stressing about personal issues.
Why should we scale the “Great Wall of Finance?”
There’s a whole list of ways a VC can help a founder struggling with financial needs. At first, by investing enough that a founder can cover rent to work on the startup full time. Later, by increasing salary, committing to invest more money in case things go sideways with a future financing round. Or by offering the s-word: Secondary.
Investors will sometimes do so-called “secondary” transactions (i.e. buying shares from the founder instead of putting the money into the company in an ordinary “primary” investment).
Why?

To alleviate a founder’s fear of loss: “Hey, I made this thing, and it’s finally valuable! What if I end up with nothing?” It’s schmuck insurance.
To remove a founder’s financial distractions: “If I didn’t worry about my student loan bill every month I’d be a lot calmer.”
To sustain a founder’s drive: “This startup thing is already worth it! Let’s trek onward…”

One threshold moment to watch: when an early acquisition offer gives a founder their “first shot” to make enough money to pay for a house and a future venture. (This often follows the “Rule of 8,” where the first offer that gives a founder $8 million in the bank is the one that tempts them most.) This might be a moment for VCs to offer secondary.
If you feel burdened by your student debt, maybe we can help you (and we’ve seen secondary that pays off a founder’s credit cards). If you’re caring for an aging relative, we can talk through a solution. If you dream of making enough money to buy your parents a house, that dream will drive your choices.
Here’s the rub: To help you, we have to climb the Great Wall of Finance. As your investors, we need to know your attitudes toward money. How much do you have, generally speaking? How do you see your financial future? What do you expect?
When can you start that conversation with your VC? In theory, we investors — for whom fundraising conversations happen every single day — should make it safe for you. In the real world, where Twitter gives any bozo 280 characters, you may need to vet the situation, gingerly.

The egg toss approach
Are you shuddering at the thought of disclosing all this money stuff to your VCs?
Investors bring all kinds of voodoo to money matters. Some believe founders who take secondary aren’t committed. Others will beg you to take money off the table so they can buy more of your company, then accuse you of pulling a bank heist. There are VCs who might use your private details against you if they ever want to make a management change.
Personal money is taboo in part because founders have every reason to fear disclosing such vulnerable details to VCs. We VCs need to earn the right to know you.
Instead of barreling full-disclosure ahead, consider the egg toss approach, where you start with a little lob and gradually “throw” further and further.
Start with a personal fact or two, and watch whether the investor seems to care. Then share a more financial fact — for example, a founder once talked to me about a role model in her life, who took some money off the table, and that opened the door for us to ask her views on money (if, instead, your investor seems to press play on a mental playlist of preconceived notions, take note).
If the investor seems open, cross Go (that’s Monopoly Go, not AI Go), collect $200 and share a detail of your personal financial situation. You could talk about your parents’ professions and income when you grew up, how you handle your household budgeting, and where you like to spend your money or why you save.
If you feel safe, maybe it’s time to trust them with the Big Talk. This could be right before you accept investment terms. “Before we get into business together for a long time, do you want to understand how I think about my own money?”
You might end up talking about how much money you have — in savings, Ether or whatever — or if you’re in debt; how much you need to cover your “personal burn rate;” or even just what financial success means for you. Is it about zeroing out your debt, paying for your kid’s special medical needs or about never flying commercial again?
Move carefully — money is a strange trigger for people.
Since we started our fund, we’ve tried to have as honest a relationship as possible with the people we back. As a matter of principle, we want all founders in our portfolio to live sustainably, so they can think about the long term. After all, Snapchat didn’t become a $15 billion company by selling early to Facebook so Evan and Bobby could buy pads in the Hollywood Hills (and we’ve now done secondary even in some seed rounds, under certain conditions).
Discussions about founders’ economic backgrounds do happen today — it’s just that they happen (needlessly) awkwardly, and often too late. “Hey, private question. If I take this next funding round, how does that change the exit strategy? What if we get a $50 million offer in a few months, can I still sell the company?” It’s a strange fact of our business that it’s considered inappropriate for a founder to admit that he or she would be thrilled to earn millions of dollars for a couple of years work — that, somehow, they should only be content with much more.
You may want to consider having that conversation about money when the investment has fewer commas — because it only gets harder as the stakes rise.
………
Thank you to Sara, who is the first person who ever planted these questions in my head and whose wisdom on them is responsible for 150 percent of what I know; to Ted Wang, for telling me about the Rule of 8; and Bloomberg Beta’s portfolio founders, for reminding me about all the ways in which This is Hard. Written with help from Carmel DeAmicis.

Featured Image: rogistok/Getty Images


Code.org, the non-profit organization that aims to increase access to computer science education, has raised $12 million in philanthropic funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Infosys Foundation USA  and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
The announcement came as part of a Computer Science Education Week kickoff event in San Mateo. Meanwhile, eight states, 76 school districts and 102 organizations nationwide made pledges to expand access to computer science education to millions of students.
Those who made the pledge include Florida Governor Rick Scott, who made a $15 million investment to increase opportunities for middle and high school students and California Lt. Governor Gavin Newsom, who launched a Computer Science for California campaign to bring CS education to all students in California by 2025.
“California is the tech capital of the country and home to Silicon Valley, but we don’t teach our
students the foundational skills to access the jobs of the future,” Newsom said in a press release. “Right now most schools in California don’t offer any computer science classes and sadly, that disparity is punctuated by striking gender and racial gaps,” Lt. Governor Newsom said. “I’m thrilled to announce the launch of CSforCA to make sure every California student has access to high-quality computer science education.”
Code.org is not the only organization working to increase access to computer science education. Black Girls Code, for example, aims to introduce young black girls to computer science and teach them how to code. In September, Black Girls Code received a $255,000 donation from General Motors as part of a collaborative effort to advance science, technology, engineering and mathematics education in Detroit.
Another organization taking part in CS Education Week is Vidcode, a Y Combinator-backed startup that aims to make coding more accessible to teens. This week, Vidcode is offering women in tech webinars at schools and recently launched a new intermediate hour of code activity called “Code the Eclipse.”


Last month Qualcomm rejected a $70 per share acquisition offer from Broadcom — but the rival chipmaker isn’t stepping away. Today it’s announced it’s nominated a slate of eleven directors for Qualcomm’s board.
The move puts pressure on Qualcomm’s board to engage with Broadcom’s approach by paving the way for its own shareholders to vote for a takeover which the board already rebuffed.
Qualcomm is due to hold an annual meeting of stockholders on March 6, 2018.
Broadcom says its earlier acquisition offer represents a 28% premium over the closing price of Qualcomm’s common stock on November 2, 2017, aka the last unaffected trading day prior to media speculation regarding a potential transaction; and a premium of 33% to Qualcomm’s unaffected 30-day volume-weighted average price.
But Qualcomm’s board continue to argue the offer “dramatically” undervalues the company.
In a statement confirming receipt of a slate of candidates from Broadcom today, Qualcomm also played up regulatory uncertainty around the transaction, and urged shareholders to support the existing board of “world-class directors” — emphasizing that nine are independent and four have been added in the last three years.
It further described the move as “a blatant attempt to seize control of the Qualcomm Board in order to advance Broadcom’s acquisition agenda” — arguing that the nominees are “inherently conflicted given Broadcom’s desire to acquire Qualcomm in a manner that dramatically undervalues Qualcomm to Broadcom’s benefit”.
“No company in the industry is better positioned than Qualcomm in mobile, IoT, automotive, edge computing and networking and to lead the transition to 5G,” said Tom Horton, Qualcomm’s presiding director, in a statement. “Qualcomm stockholders expect a Board that will support this innovation while evaluating objectively the full range of opportunities available to maximize value for all Qualcomm stockholders.”
In its own statement, Broadcom’s Hock Tan, president and CEO, said the company’s “strong preference” is to engage in what he described as “a constructive dialogue with Qualcomm”. But he also reiterated that the rival has entirely rebuffed its approach thus far.
“We have repeatedly attempted to engage with Qualcomm, and despite stockholder and customer support for the transaction, Qualcomm has ignored those opportunities. The nominations give Qualcomm stockholders an opportunity to voice their disappointment with Qualcomm’s directors and their refusal to engage in discussions with us,” he said.
“In light of the significant value our proposal provides for Qualcomm stockholders, we believe Qualcomm stockholders would be better served by new independent, highly qualified nominees who are committed to maximizing value and acting in the best interests of Qualcomm stockholders.” 
The full list of Broadcom’s nominees can be found here.
If the nominees are elected, Broadcom added that it would support a decision by them to increase the size of the Qualcomm Board and reappoint Mark D. McLaughlin, Anthony J. “Tony” Vinciquerra and Jeffrey W. Henderson as directors.

Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


Thanks to technology, making an audio recording of a meeting is a trivially easy task these days. While speech to text services can help tackle the tedium of transcription, this just invites a slew of new problems: The need to clean up and confirm transcripts. To verify who said what. Not to mention having to ensure everyone consented to being recorded — and gets a timely copy of the meeting minutes afterwards.
On the value-add side, a manager might also wish for an easy way to generate a summary of key points after a meeting. And a tool that can automatically list any tasks so they don’t have to go back and pick them out of their notes. Analytics around meeting productivity could also be useful — helping answer questions like: Are my meetings running to time? Which speakers tend to dominate? How many decisions are being made and actioned?
These are the sorts of assistance capabilities that US-incorporated startup Reason8 has in the works for its AI-powered transcription service, which is launching out of beta today from the TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin stage.
Down the line the team reckons the tech will also be able to offer users linguistic and voice analysis — with the potential to act like a coach and offer individual guidance on improving in-meeting performance.
“In-person meetings are the least digitized field in personal communications,” says co-founder Vlad Belyaev, discussing the idea behind the product. “It is a huge market. All of us make meetings, and make meeting notes, write meeting summaries, meeting minutes.
“Our first niche is to focus on managers who spend a large amount of time on making meeting minutes and on tracking the tasks that they gave to their employees.”
The target user for Reason8 is a middle manager who has three to four meetings per day and thus sinks a lot of time into distilling hot air into summaries and trackable tasks. “We are trying to make their life easier and more productive,” is his concise summary of the product goal.
At least two smartphones are required to record any one meeting via the app. This both provides enough audio input data for the speaker-separating AI to work with, and also means multiple meeting participants can participate in grabbing the record of the meeting if they wish. So it aims to help with the consent and ownership issue, too.
Belyaev says the idea for the app came about after he’d worked as a secretary and executive assistant — and spent a lot of time compiling and sharing meeting minutes. The challenge of keeping meeting participants who were spread across multiple timezones in the loop was another pain-point that fed the app idea.



tc_disrupt_berlin-reason8-2924




reason8-0191




reason8-0192




reason8-0190




tc_disrupt_berlin-reason8-2922




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


The team incorporated in Delaware in May 2016 and in November last year raised $1.2 million in early-stage funding from Russian business angels to help fund development of their MVP.
The app is iOS only for now, it being easier to calibrate microphones across the more homogenous iPhone hardware than Android’s diverse range of devices. But an Android version is planned for next year, says Belyaev.
Reason8 is using Google’s cloud speech API for the speech to text conversion of meeting audio captured via its app — so the first thing to note is it’s not trying to replicate competitive and robust speech recognition technology that’s already available in the market.
Rather, its focus is on making that existing technology more useful in the context of meetings and managers. Its special sauce is a deep learning model trained to be able to identify different voices and thus to separate out speakers within a transcript — meaning the user doesn’t just get handed one big block of text.
This works without users needing to train it, according to Belyaev, who says the AI is able to separate speakers from the very first meeting. (And once individual users have identified themselves in the app it can link their name with their voice footprint to include their real name in meeting transcripts, too.)
“We use deep learning for better understanding your digital footprint of your own voice,” he notes. “We make it in a fully unsupervised way. So we do not need data for learning to distinguish speakers between each other.”
The second bit of Reason8’s proprietary tech is a natural language processing engine that it’s using to automatically identify specific tasks agreed on in the meeting.
This engine, which the team trained using open data sets, was developed out of an earlier product they deployed in the Russian market — aimed at helping companies improve the performance of their customer support services.
“We developed our own natural language understanding engine. One of the main features of this engine was and is that we are able to work with a very little amount of data,” he says, adding: “Very few amount of businesses have data to train the model. That was why we created the solution which is able to identify the sense of phrases.
“We are able to classify this meaning and identify — for instance — tasks from decisions and from ideas.”
How does the system avoid getting confused by the codified word salad that can get thrown around in meetings? By focusing on analyzing phrases rather than individual words, he says on that.
“We don’t analyze exact words — we analyze the whole phrases,” he tells TechCrunch. “That is why we analyze the meaning of the phrases. We’ve been developing our natural language engine for the last year and this gave us opportunity to better understand the meaning of exact phrases which people mention.”
The initial focus on extracting tasks is also a way for the team to shrink and tackle the linguistic context challenge that’s at the core of what they’re trying to do. “Tasks mainly have a very clear intent so you can mention that someone has to do something with a current deadline and this is easier to identify,” he says. “We decided to focus on a very narrow problem — so identifying tasks and then later decisions and ideas.”
The ambition is for the NLP engine to get smart enough to be able to automatically create meeting summaries in future too. For that another current feature of the app is key: A highlight button that users can manually tap on within the app to flag important sections of a meeting while it’s going on. This tells the tech to take note. Any highlighted portions will then be incorporated into the meeting report it delivers.
But these manual highlights are also a learning signal for the tech. Belyaev says it’s feeding them into the model to help it get better at understanding vocal intonation during important moments in meetings.
“With this information we are able to capture data-sets that defines not only by the meaning but also by intonation, by context that you say something important,” he explains. “When I say something important i’m trying to be precise, I’m trying to make pauses and to emphasize the intonation on it.
“So with all this context information — so not only from the text which we already have huge experience on, but also from the sounds — so we are able to identify better and to give better quality for our summarization engine.”
“Looking further, our vision is to provide for people a tool with which they could make meeting minutes and meeting summaries easily and a digitally enabled path to gather these self-enforcing data sets,” he adds. “So if people are using our product they improve their productivity with drafts of meeting minutes, then they make their own meeting minutes and send it to their colleagues.”
For now, the engine can identify tasks. Soon — “in the next few weeks” — it’ll also be able to classify “ideas and decisions”. But it isn’t yet capable of serving up fully fledged meeting summarizes. Instead users get a brief report with any manual highlights they trigger.
Belyaev says the plan is to add integrations with other communications tools — such as Google Hangouts, Zoom and Slack — in order to “capture more information to improve our summarization engine”. And they’re penciling in Spring 2018 for the full AI-powered meeting summarization feature to launch, he adds.
They also plan to integrate with existing project management systems to further expand the utility of the product. So, for example, a task automatically extracted from a meeting transcript could also be automatically inputted into a PMS.
“A transcript is great but for business in person meetings, meeting minutes and meeting summarizes add more value than just a transcript,” he argues. “Because, yes a transcript gives more value than just a record but what is even better is a summary and automatic task extraction and further integrations with project management systems like Asana or Jira… So it automatically creates tasks in project management systems. So it would be really great for improving productivity for managers and I think for many other potential users.”
Though he also emphasizes that the system is not going to be 100 percent perfect at parsing context — so also isn’t going to be able to entirely replace assistants. Rather it’s intended as a productivity-boosting aid. 
The speaker separated transcription feature works for any language already supported by Google’s speech to text tech, according to Belyaev.
But the pre-trained models that power task and (soon) decision identification have been trained on English language speech so aren’t currently able to support additional languages. Though he says they are planning to train models on data-sets in other languages in future to expand support.



The team’s first commercial push for the product is focused on the US market. Pricing is freemium for now — with a limited usage basic version of the app and a pro subscription for those who want unlimited use and all the features.
The initial target is B2C earlier adopters who may be most comfortable prioritizing productivity gains over and above the privacy concerns associated with a technology that currently works by streaming audio data to the cloud for processing. 
On the privacy front, Record8’s website states that it’s encrypting the data in transit and claims not to be storing any meeting data. But even so there are major privacy considerations and risks given it’s uploading recordings of private and potentially sensitive business meetings to the cloud. Risks that make its the current offering unsuitable for many businesses.
Belyaev says the team does intend to address the wider enterprise market in future — such as by offering a bespoke private cloud version of the system — but is starting with B2C and consumers first to push for traction to verify market demand. They’ll also be able to use the data of early adopters to continue honing their models to improve the product.
“In our plans, in the next half a year, we are aiming at enterprises,” he says. “If enterprises will want our solution on a paid basis — so they might like to make an in house private cloud solution with analytics, recommendations and all features of our product, so we are ready to provide it.
“We know for management consultant firms they would prefer to keep all the information on their servers or some private cloud like Amazon but they like to use their own solution for privacy concerns. So yes we will be able to provide it, we’re interested in providing it but we’d like to start with the B2C segment and with end customers by providing them an app for meeting summarization and transcription.”


It took Barbara Timm-Brock one near-death experience and three career changes to bring her to the stage at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin to launch eTrack Tech.
Timm-Brock wants to make sure equipment functions properly so that employees are safer and logistics companies can save money on one of their biggest expenses — the equipment they use.
The device that eTrack Tech sells looks like a router with an array of multifunctional sensors. That streams data to a hub device on a facility’s property that will collect the data and analyze it.
All of that data (which measures power, hydraulics and fluids) is transmitted over a cellular network to the hub.
So far, the technology works with generators (which Timm-Brock likens to a diesel truck with no wheels), HVAC systems and forklifts, which look a lot like other logistics and construction equipment, including backhoes and excavators.
eTrack Tech charges $300 per year per device and monitoring costs.
For logistics companies, the monitoring equipment can both save lives and money. According to Timm-Brock, companies spend roughly $144 billion per year on logistics equipment maintenance, almost the same they spend on vehicle and equipment purchasing ($156 billion).
“We have created this business of making fleet management more efficient,” says Timm-Brock. “While we have a lot of prospective exits for this, I really just want to make stuff work better.”
The path that led Timm-Brock — a good Minnesotan — to our Berlin stage, began in her father’s workshop, where, from an early age, she helped him with his hobby as a gunsmith. Professionally the head of the prototype lab at Unisys, Arthur Timm was a master craftsman and an amateur gunsmith who had Barbara work in his shop.
“I remember reloading shotgun shells. He had me working with gun stocks and I worked with gunpowder,” Timm-Brock told me.
That early experience with dangerous chemicals instilled a respect for process and safety that ran through Timm-Brock’s education as a chemical engineer and through her first job at Pillsbury as a process engineer.



etrack-0181




etrack-0184




etrack-0183




etrack-0179




etrack-0180




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


It was while working at Pillsbury that Timm-Brock had the experience that would underscore her respect for safety and would plant the seed for eTrack Tech’s products and services. While renovating a new house with her husband in a Minnesota winter, Timm-Brock was caught in an upstairs room that had filled with carbon monoxide — a result of a series of mishaps caused by faulty repairs to the house’s heating and cooling systems and chimney.
Timm-Brock was hospitalized, comatose and would have died if she hadn’t been discovered by her family.
“After I almost died, I decided life was too short to put up with BS,” she says. “I wrote a mission statement to myself that I am here on this earth to help people and businesses grow and thrive.”
She left Pillsbury a few years later and took on a series of jobs in the food services industry, including leadership stints at Pizza Hut, Olive Garden, Cinnabon and Church’s Chicken. Those jobs culminated in a career at Aramark, which was half food services and half facilities management and engineering.
Aramark was where Timm-Brock was exposed to the dangers of large industrial vehicles — which can cause at least 100 deaths a year because of faulty maintenance and accidents.
Food services was Timm-Brock’s first career, but the experiences in facilities management brought her the attention of head hunters in education who recruited her to her second — working at the Stratford School (a high-end science, technology, engineering and math focused group of schools in the San Francisco and Los Angeles area).
“I’m brought in to scale something and fix it,” says Timm-Brock. “And I was working at Stratford and saw that maintenance is a nightmare. I sent a guy to do an audit and we pulled out work orders that were two years old.”
The problem, as Timm-Brock saw it (and sees it), is that small and medium-sized businesses don’t have the same capacity to spend money on monitoring and managing their equipment — sometimes vital equipment.
For instance, the schools depended on their HVAC systems and are legally required to maintain certain temperatures in classrooms (in certain states). At Stratford, their HVAC systems were never working, always breaking down, and supplementary systems had to be used to ensure classroom temps.
After the Stratford School was acquired and Timm-Brock had a chance to review her options, she decided to venture out on career number three in 2015 — starting her own company.
Since that time, she has been working with several advisers to develop a technology that can be installed cheaply and simply on any vehicle or piece of industrial equipment with an array of proprietary sensors and a way to communicate information from that equipment to a centralized hub.



Initially, because she had been most closely exposed to problems with HVAC, Timm-Brock started the business working on those heating and cooling systems that bedeviled the Stratford School. But after a test-case at a facility services shop in Arizona, Timm-Brock was asked whether she could expand the monitoring to other industrial systems — like forklifts.
After surveying 42,000 work order requests for forklift maintenance, Timm-Brock and a team of co-workers developed a taxonomy for what their sensors should monitor, and began deploying their monitoring service on industrial vehicles — and it worked.
“From forklifts, we now do generators and are looking at other construction equipment that could use the forklift unit,” Timm-Brock tells me.


Leveraging some “mind boggling math” introduced as an update onto the Ethereum blockchain only a few months ago, QEDit is launching its product on our Battlefield stage at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin.
The company, which takes its name from the Latin phrase quod erat demonstrandum (which was what would have been demonstrated) relies on the principle of zero knowledge proofs to provide audit and due diligence services for financial institutions.
One of the problems that’s been slowing down blockchain adoption in businesses is how to share information based on proprietary data. Companies don’t want to share a lot of information with competitors, but need to have ways to ensure that the information they’re receiving is correct.
The QEDit service allows that on the blockchain. Creating ways for multi-party transactions to engage in queries that prove certain facts about a business, without ever accessing the data underlying those proofs.
This differs from a “regular” blockchain where every transaction is sent to all the nodes on the network and all of those nodes record the rules and value of the transaction on a public ledger. With QEDit, only the user runs the rules on their own data. The only thing that anyone else on the chain sees are the proofs.
One of the company’s co-founders is Aviv Zohar, a researcher at Hebrew University whose work was cited by none other than Ethereum project developer VItalik Butarin in his early writing about cryptocurrency. Zohar has been working in cryptography for years and his work is critical to the very “mind boggling math” that makes zero knowledge proofs possible.
Helping him round out the team at QEDit are Jonathan Rouach and Ruben Arnold, two serial entrepreneurs who first met in 1999 while studying at Technion University in Israel.
“We saw that there were two conflicting trends. More and more data is accumulated in the enterprise world and companies are trying to keep it for themselves and monetize it and companies are trying to keep it for themselves but there are instances… on the one hand you want to keep the data for yourself and on the other hand you want to share the data with other parties,” says Rouach of the idea behind QEDit. “This is what we built. It’s the possibility of sharing proofs about the data without sharing the data itself.”



QEDit-0176




QEDit-0172




tc_disrupt_berlin-qed-2868




tc_disrupt_berlin-qed-2867




tc_disrupt_berlin-qed-2874




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


While Arnold pursued a career in consulting in Paris at McKinsey & Co., Rouach stayed in Israel working in electrical engineering. But around 2012 he became interested in a novel idea percolating out from the edges of the internet called bitcoin (it was a post on Slashdot, Rouach says).
In 2013, he co-founded Bits of Gold with his brother Yuval Rouach and Arnold as one of the first bitcoin exchanges to launch in Israel.
“It was the technology,” that first attracted Rouach to the Bitcoin bomb that was exploding on the Internet. “It’s a beautiful solution to a problem that I didn’t even think of… How can you create trust between people without central coordination?”
Rouach’s fascination with that concept of anonymous trust is a thread that runs through his future endeavors as well — businesses that all attempt to refine that notion of anonymous, verified trust.
“Every fact on the blockchain is mathematically verified,” says Rouach. “That is enough to know what is the state of the whole world.”
While bitcoin may have been Rouach’s gateway drug into the wild world of cryptobusiness, he quickly came to the conclusion that it wasn’t the technology to actually fulfill the promise of expanding on that notion of anonymous trust and verification.
That’s because the security issues around bitcoin had yet to be resolved. So Rouach launched a second company called LedgerLock, which provided security services for a range of digital assets.
Once LedgerLock was sold to Digital Assets Holdings, during the split between the application of blockchain technology to business problems which ignored the push to tokenization, and a more public-facing movement that was predicated on token sales.
So QEDit is the next step on the road to a fully cryptographic, nearly automated transaction system. The idea is to replace the army of auditors that are involved in providing due diligence and oversight for negotiations and transactions that involve proprietary information.



Surprisingly (or maybe unsurprisingly), audit firms, financial services companies, and large telecoms themselves are on board for the experiment. QEDit has partnerships with Deloitte, BNP Paribas and British Telecom for its first product called QEDit Enhanced Diligence.
Unlike the rash of companies based on blockchain that have gone the coin sale route, Rouach tells me that his firm has no intention of launching an ICO. “We’re completely on the enterprise blockchain side and what we want to do is ensure that companies can build trust between them without having to reveal their private data.”
The company sells the service on a per use basis and as part of the beta launch here at Disrupt the QEDit is offering two free years of service to customers that sign up for its beta.
Rouach says there’s a big market for this kind of work, with roughly $6 billion floating out there in the rating market alone.
It’s hard to understate how radical the change this technology could bring to financial services actually could be.
“You never had a peer-to-peer way of an investor or an acquirer or an auditor knocking on the door of the company and say prove me this, and to know what they’re giving back is accurate,” says Rouach.


Automakers are laying the groundwork for a future in which electric cars are omnipresent – and at least as common a sight on roadways as traditional gas-powered vehicles. Last month, a group of car OEMs including Ford, BMW, Daimler, and Volkswagen Group created a new joint-venture called ‘Ionity’ to build out a charing network, starting with a series of fast-charging stations to electrify European roadways.
Now, we know how they’ll be choosing sites for the placement of these stations, and it’s a sensible move that involves benefits both for Ionity and for its new partners – gas station operators and oil companies.
Ionity’s new partners (via Roadshow) are Shell, OMV and Circle K, who will be providing strategic sites for Ionity to build out its charging network. This is definitely a situation where it doesn’t make any sense to reinvent the wheel, since fueling stations have obviously already done the hard work of identifying sensible roadside spots at which they can establish their locations.
Shell will be working with Autobahn Tanks & Rast in Germany, an operator that has 700 gas/service stations in its network, while OMV and Circle K, along with Shell-branded stations, will all cover a total of 18 countries across Europe for the new charging network, which eventually hopes to span a total of 400 locations Europe-wide.
Ionity hopes to get its fledgling network up to 50 stations in total by early next year, and taking a shortcut with site partners that have existing roadside facility really does seem like it should help them meet their deployment targets and achieve reach quickly.
This also gives roadside station operators a way to transition to an electric-friendly future while keeping their businesses relatively static in terms of other features of the stations themselves.


A Mumbai-based startup called ftcash is helping small businesses in India move beyond cash. In some cases, it’s also providing loans to fund their operations.
Co-founder Vaibhav Lodha, who demonstrated ftcash on-stage today at TechCrunch’s Startup Battlefield, said he first got the idea from his newspaper vendor, who complained that none of his customers seemed to have the cash at home to pay him. The issue was serious enough to create a cashflow problem for the vendor, prompting him to consider going to a loan shark.
So ftcash allows any merchant with a feature phone and a bank account to accept a variety of cashless payments — including credit cards, debit cards, mobile wallets and PayPal — after just a few minutes of setup.
Lodha said he reaches these merchants by hiring a small team in each market, and then looking for channel partners and other businesses that he can work with to increase distribution.
There are already 25,000 merchants signed up, and the company has been growing 30 percent month-over-month for the past 18 months. Most of these merchants don’t have any point-of-sale hardware beforehand, so after they sign up with ftcash, the startup ends up processing between 10 and 50 percent of their purchases.
Lodha also pointed to India’s recent move to abolish certain rupee notes as a sign that there’s a broader shift away from cash (even if the effects of the policy are still being debated).
And as already mentioned, ftcash isn’t just providing payments technology. Lodha said that these merchants often have trouble getting loans from banks because limited financial records make it difficult for lenders to create “a credible risk model.”



But thanks to the payments data that ftcash is already collecting, Lodha said his team can make the loans safely and intelligently. The data also allows the company to see when a borrower might be struggling financially, so “if a merchant is going south, we can be the first in line to get our money back.”
To be clear, Lodha’s startup isn’t actually providing the capital for these loans — that comes from an undisclosed financial partner. From the merchant’s perspective, however, its relationship is entirely with ftcash. The loans usually range from $1,000 to $20,000, with interest rates between 18 and 30 percent. Lodha acknowledged that those rates might seem high, but he said that compared to loan sharks who charge between 50 and 300 percent, “It’s a really cheap loan.”
Lodha is also starting to think about expanding internationally and is looking at Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Latin America as possibilities. In keeping with the company’s growth strategy, he’s interested in selling the technology to international partners who might want to offer it under their own branding.
The company is currently participating in the MasterCard Start Path program. It’s backed by PayPal, IvyCap Ventures and others.


For the first time, Facebook is opening up to children under age 13 with a privacy-focused app designed to neutralize child predator threats that plague youth-focused competitors like Snapchat. Rolling out today on iOS in the U.S., “Messenger Kids” lets parents download the app on their child’s phone or tablet, create a profile for them and approve friends and family with whom they can text and video chat from the main Messenger app.
Tweens don’t sign up for a Facebook account and don’t need a phone number, but can communicate with other Messenger and Messenger Kids users parents sign-off on, so younger siblings don’t get left out of the family group chat. “We’ve been working closely with the FTC so we’re lockstep with them. ‘This works’, they said,” Facebook product management director Loren Cheng tells me. “In other apps, they can contact anyone they want or be contacted by anyone,” Facebook’s head of Messenger David Marcus notes.
Special proactive detection safety filters prevent children from sharing nudity, sexual content or violence, while a dedicated support team will respond quickly to reported or flagged content. Facebook even manually sifted Giphy to build a kid-friendly version of the GIF-sharing engine. And with childish augmented reality masks and stickers, video calls with grandma could be a lot more fun and a lot less silent or awkward.

Facebook won’t be directly monetizing Messenger Kids, automatically migrating kids to real accounts when they turn 13 or collecting data so that it complies with Children’s Online Privacy Protections Act (COPPA) law. But the app could prime kids to become lifelong Facebook users, and lock their families deeply into the platform where they’ll see ads.
“When you think about things at scale that we do to get people to care more about Messenger, this is one that addresses a real need for parents,” say Facebook’s head of Messenger David Marcus. “But the side effect will be that they use Messenger more and create family groups.” Marcus tells me he’s excited about getting his 8-year-old into the family chat alongside his 14- and 17-year-old children.
How Messenger Kids works
It’s important to understand that kids under 13 still can’t sign up for a Facebook account. Instead, parents download the Messenger Kids app to a child’s iPhone or iPad (Android coming soon). Once the parent has authenticated it with their own account, they set up a mini-profile with their kid’s name and photo. Then, using the Messenger Kids bookmark in the main Facebook app, parents can approve anyone who is friends with them as a contact for their kid, like aunts and uncles or godparents. Messenger Kids is interoperable with the main Messenger app, so adults don’t actually have to download the Kids app.

Kids still can’t be found through Facebook search, which protects their privacy. So if a child wants to be able to chat with one of their classmates, their parent must first friend that kid’s parent, and then will see the option to approve that adult’s child as a contact for their own kid. This is by far the most clumsy part of Messenger Kids, and something Facebook might be able to improve with a way for Messenger Kids to let children perhaps photograph a QR code on their playmate’s app to request that their parents connect.
When children open the Messenger Kids app, they’ll see a color-customizable home screen with big tiles representing their existing chat threads and approved contacts, with their last message and the last time they were online. From there, kids can dive instantly into a video chat or text thread with their contacts. No message content is collected for ad targeting (same as Messenger), and there’s no in-app purchases to worry about. Kids can block and unblock their parent-approved contacts.

Facebook hired a special team to develop kid-friendly creative tools, from fidget spinner and dinosaur AR masks to crayon-style stickers. “Video calls become so much more playful with AR,” says Marcus. Sometimes after 5 or 10 minutes it’s really hard to have a sustained conversation with a 7-year-old,” but kids can joke around with Grampa using the selfie filters when they run out of run-on stories to tell them.
Messenger features like location sharing and payments have been stripped out, while the Kids version of Giphy won’t let you search for things like “sex.” Facebook actually manually selected a set of GIFs that kids can use rather than relying on a third-party startup to tag things well enough. Still, a reporting interface written specifically for kids lets them flag anything sketchy to a dedicated support team working 24/7.
One thing that might surprise some people is that there’s no way for parents to secretly spy on what their kids are saying in their chats. Instead, parents have to ask to look at their kids’ screen, which Chung says is a more common behavior pattern. The exception is that if kids report a piece of objectionable content, their parents will be notified but still not shown the content in their own app.

In June, The Information reported Facebook was working on an app for teens called Talk, though that’s a bit different than this pre-teen Messenger Kids app.
While Facebook said in the briefing that the app was designed for kids age 6 to 12, younger kids are allowed on, too. When children turn 13, they won’t instantly have their Messenger Kids profiles turned into real Facebook profiles, nor will they get kicked off Messenger Kids. They’ll still have to build a traditional Facebook account from scratch when they’re ready.
Move slow and research things
Before Facebook wrote any code or drew any designs for the app, it says it started research 18 months ago to find out what kids and parents wanted out of a potential product. It also worked with the National Parent Teacher Association for safety insights and Blue Star Families from the military who have to stay in touch during long deployments.
It found that kids had the right hardware but the wrong software; 93 percent of 6-12-year-olds in the U.S. have access to tablets or smartphones, while 66 percent have their own device, and three out of every five parents surveyed said their kids under 13 use messaging apps, social media or both. But these apps weren’t built for children’s privacy, and instead allow adult strangers to contact or follow kids. Youth favorite Snapchat has reportedly been used by predators to groom kids for sexual exploitation, with authorities saying it’s tough to track perverts because messages disappear.
Most apps say that kids have to be at least 13, but there’s nothing to stop younger children from signing up. That’s true on Facebook too, and it could do more to prevent tweens from signing up. But at least parents have grown to understand Facebook. On Snapchat, where ephemerality can cover evidence of inappropriate contact, or Musical.ly, where kids dance provocatively in front of huge audiences, dangers mount and parents are often clueless.
That’s why it was smart that Facebook tasked Cheng with leading the project. He’d spent the past few years on the “tough experiences” team that handles fake accounts, violent content, sexual exploitation, self-harm and counter-terrorism. He’s used to thinking about worst-case scenarios. Facebook built a whole portal at MessengerKids.com with more information for parents.
Facebook is trying to cross every T and dot every I when it comes to safety with this new product. It would be reckless to invite kids onto a chat app otherwise. Still, it doesn’t have the best track record on unintended consequences, and if it screws this up, the damage and backlash will be massive.

The launch could be a sign that Facebook is growing up. With Facebook almost 14 years old itself, children not yet born when it launched are now allowed on its main app. CEO Mark Zuckerberg just had two kids. So did his lieutenants Chris Cox, CPO, and Andrew Bosworth, head of hardware. It’s hard to think about connecting the world if your products can’t connect your own family.
“When I was in my mid-twenties, you never think you’re going to be gone, ever,” Marcus admits. Now 33, “[Zuckerberg] has been thinking a lot about the future he wants to leave behind for his kids.” Today his company is laying the foundation for an ageless social network.


Onefootball founder and CEO Lucas von Cranach, whose popular football app now has 25 million fans in 200 countries around the world, confirmed on stage today at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin 2017 that his company has raised more funding — including both an unreported Series B and C round. This would bring the startup’s total raise to date to over the $20 million publicly reported.
The founder declined to share the new numbers on stage, but he did note that Adidas was one of the new investors. Von Cranach also noted that he’s very deliberate about raising money. “Raising capital is a necessity to match the goal which you are putting yourself forward,” he said. “We’ve raised some capital, but I always looked at the dilution, valuation and money in the bank triangle.”



Fireside Chat with Lucas von Cranach (Onefootball)-0139




Fireside Chat with Lucas von Cranach (Onefootball)-0142




Fireside Chat with Lucas von Cranach (Onefootball)-0143




Fireside Chat with Lucas von Cranach (Onefootball)-0144




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


For a strategic investor like Adidas, access to Onefootball’s mobile fan base can be more powerful than any mobile initiative they could build on their own. Numerous studies have shown that today’s consumers only use a handful of apps on a regular basis, so the likelihood of them hearing from a favorite brand like Adidas through a dedicated Adidas-branded application is slim to none.
That’s where Onefootball, which von Cranach described as a “Facebook for football without the social element,” aims to come in. Instead of developing a distributed strategy with large followers across social platforms like Facebook and Twitter, von Cranach says Onefootball’s users are directed to return to the app itself. Here, where some 90 percent have opted in to receive push notifications, brands could have a direct channel to their fans.
“We don’t have big followerships on Twitter or Facebook and all of these platforms,” he said. “But we have consumers on the app and website who are constantly coming back.”
The founder counts himself as one of the heaviest users of the app, in fact, spending at least an hour a day in a product he basically built for himself to address his own passions.
But while the company is continuing to grow, with some of its users returning to the app 40 to 50 times per month, there are some areas Onefootball isn’t planning to address, von Cranach noted.
“We won’t build a betting business, we won’t build a merchandise business, and we won’t build a ticketing business, ” he said. Instead, he explained, the company is “building an experience at the top of the funnel” where it can increase the conversions… perhaps for brands like new investor Adidas, for example.


Bradley Tusk has long been known in political circles, including for managing the third campaign of former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg. He went on to make his mark in Silicon Valley by answering a call six years ago from former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick, who recognized he’d have regulatory battles to wage and enlisted Tusk as Uber’s first outside consultant to aid in navigating them.
Fast forward and Tusk, who’d accepted his Uber pay in equity and today oversees both a political strategy firm as well as a venture fund, tells us that he’s cashing out his shares as part of the new investment being made by a SoftBank-led consortium of investors who are buying both primary and secondary shares.
It’s time, he says. “We’ll see where it lands, but I’ve been in this thing forever, and it’s hard to see Uber [go public] for more than 1.5 x at where this lands. It would be an historic IPO, but you’re looking at two-years, plus a [standard] six-month lock-up [post IPO]. Can I do better than 1.5x in my other [investments]? Probably so.”
While Tusk hasn’t worked with Uber in some time, he’s still involved in plenty of regulatory clashes on behalf of other clients. We chatted with him last week to find out which battles he expects to be fighting in 2018.
Some of the issues he envisions getting involved in include:
Dockless bike sharing. “I think it’ll blow up,” says Tusk, and he isn’t using the word to suggest explosive growth, either. “Where the streets are crowded and you already have significant homeless populations, piling up bikes on the ground isn’t going to work. I do think you’ll see regulations enforced against it. It’s hard to see how it becomes ‘natural’ in really dense cities in the U.S.” (Worth noting: Tusk is an investor in Bird, a Santa Monica, Ca.-based scooter-share company whose CEO, Travis VanderZanden, worked previously as Uber’s vice president of driver growth.)
E-sports betting. Today, the U.S. Supreme Court is hearing Christie et al vs NCAA et al, the crux of which is whether the state of New Jersey can legalize sports betting in its state, despite a 1992 federal law that banned sports betting everywhere in the U.S. except Nevada. As Yahoo Finance reported recently, no matter the outcome, the gaming industry is optimistic that change is coming soon to America’s stringent gambling laws, including because President Trump is a former casino owner.
A win would “set off an insane frenzy in state governments across the country,” says Tusk. “For every e-sports company, it would all of a sudden be a battle royale with every state with casinos and Native American tribes,” some of which operate casinos on tribal land to provide employment and revenue for their government and their tribe members. “Assuming the Republican tax bill passes and [many] state and local deductions are eliminated, all blue states will need new forms of revenue, which is further incentive for [figuring out] sports betting.”
The legalization of cannabis [including on a federal level]. Tusk’s venture firm is an advisor to, and an investor in, the on-demand marijuana delivery startup Eaze. Cannabis will be “legalized in more places, and that’s good for [related] startups,” says Tusk, so it’s no surprise he is pushing on this one. “Though Congressional Republicans say they hate drugs,” he says, “if they take away revenue from people in California and New Jersey, these states have to make up the revenue somehow and they aren’t going to raise taxes, so I do think cannabis will [be legalized] a lot faster than otherwise.”
Worker classification. Yes, this is still a huge issue that, with no clear definition of what is and isn’t an independent contractor, despite that this  affects employers’ obligation to pay overtime, withhold and pay taxes, and provide employee benefits. Tusk, like a lot of people, would like to see states grow far clearer in their language, though he says that labor unions “don’t want a clearer economy. Sharing economy companies are saying, ‘Just give us the rules. We’ll either live by them or we won’t, but it’s kind of undemocratic not to tell us.'”
Though the tax bill could potentially increase workers’ status as contractors, Tusk has meanwhile been putting more thought into portable benefits pools that would travel with a worker no matter how he or she earns money. The benefits wouldn’t be quite as expansive as for full-time employees, but in the scenario he imagines, “each company puts in a little bit, the drivers put in a little bit, and they can use it for heath care or their pension or whatever they want.”
It won’t happen overnight — if at all. Complains Tusk, “Labor unions should be pro contract workers getting benefits, but if everyone can have the flexibility of being an independent contractor while also enjoying benefits, why would anyone have jobs?”
Autonomous mobility. On this front, things are going well for cars but not so well for self-driving trucks, notes Tusk, whose team will be working in part to address this.
He points to the bipartisan support for the so-called “SELF DRIVE” Act, which quickly cleared the House with unanimous support in September but hasn’t been cleared yet by the Senate.
It right now looks positioned to become the first national law for self-driving cars in the United States. Alas, both the House and Senate bill exempt self-driving trucks in the wake of pressure from labor unions that are worried about both truckers’ job security as well as their safety. (The Senate bill also limits companies to making autonomous-only cars so long as they sell less than a certain number of units in a given year, capping the number at 15,000 vehicles in the first year, 80,000 in three years, and allowing an unlimited number of cars in the fourth year.)
Because of that exception for big rigs — “a win for the teamsters,” Tusk calls it — expect a huge, ongoing fight at every level of government, he says. “It’s so clear and easy to envision, before cars, a big battle between the Ubers and Waymos and Teslas of the world, and the teamsters. But you can’t put the genie back in the bottle. All the teamsters can do is use politics to slow things down.”
Mobile voting. Mobile voting has been near and dear to Tusk’s heart for some time and he has recently been promoting one company as a potential solution to the challenge of the lack of participation, particularly when it comes to local elections where turnout is often in the range of 10 to 15 percent. That company is Voatz, a four-year-old, blockchain startup that passed through the TechStars accelerator program this year and is dedicated to the way we conduct elections here in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world. One imagines that Tusk would work with anyone who he thinks can finally solve this issue, however.

Featured Image: Tusk Ventures


Wandelbots has accomplished a lot for a startup that was founded officially only two weeks ago – the German company focuses on solving a key problem in robotics, using wearable technology and over two years of experience researching and designing adaptive software systems.
So what does Wandelbots actually do? Its first product is a sensor-laden suit that a person can wear to demonstrate actions so that a robot can then replicate what they do. Basically, it’s a system through which robots can “learn” what they need to without requiring that the person “teaching” them be an experienced robotics programmer.
Other projects have also employed vision-based systems to capture movement and teach it to other robots. But Wandelbots makes use of information related by embedded 9-axis sensors within the suits, which transmit magnometer, orientation and plenty of other data to the computer system to model the operator’s behavior.

The system also learns with repeat demonstrations, improving its model of the overall motion through successive observation. Then, a human engineer can refine the recorded movement and tweak it to ensure that it’s properly designed for use by a robot instead of by a person.
While there’s still human programming involved in the process, Wandelbots co-founder Christian Piechnick told me that the typical robotics programming process requires around $50,000 and a significant span of time for each new task you want a robot to perform. By comparison, Wandelbots estimates that it can accomplish the same thing up to a week or 20 times faster, and between 10 and 20 times cheaper.
Talent in robotics programming is in short supply, Piechnick told me, which is part of the reason it’s so expensive and so difficult to find people to actually do the job currently. Wandelbots hopes to address this problem by significantly reducing the amount of specialist time involved, meaning that even though the size of the talent pool may remain the same, those experts can spend less time on each job and potentially accomplish a lot more as a result.



BCN 01




MWC 00




MWC 01




IMG_9176




Darwin Circle




IFA 01




merkel




demaiziere




Wandelbots-0156




Wandelbots-0157




Wandelbots-0163




Wandelbots-0158




Wandelbots-0159




Wandelbots-0160




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Already, Wandelbots is working with “several larger customers,” according to Piechnick, including one of the largest ‘whiteware’ robotics software suppliers in China. They’re also in discussions with a major robot OEM to potentially ship hardware with support for their platform built-in next year.
Wandelbots anticipates having its product readily available to commercial customers by the end of 2018, Piechnick says. It’s a potentially transformative technology that could greatly accelerate the adoption and deployment of industrial and commercial robots, thus speeding up overall manufacturing automation.


Banking giant J.P Morgan Chase is taking another step into tapping fintech startups not just for investment, but for growing its business more directly. The company has officially closed its acquisition of WePay, the payments startup that powers payments for crowdfunding platforms like GoFundMe and competes with the likes of Stripe to provide payments infrastructure to any business that makes transactions online.
Sources close to the company have confirmed the price of the deal to us: just over $300 million, and up to $400 million including retention bonuses and earn-outs subject to hitting certain targets in coming quarters. (The terms of the deal were not disclosed when the Chase first announced it was acquiring WePay; it was reported to be higher than $220 million, WePay’s last funding post-money valuation.) WePay had raised $75 million since being founded in 2008 with investors including Y Combinator, August Capital, Max Levchin and many others.
The deal caps off a long negotiation process for the two companies: Chase first approached WePay to acquire it exactly one year ago. Now, there are three plans for WePay and Chase going forward.
The first is business as usual at WePay, which will continue to be run by co-founder Bill Clerico. The company already works with crowdfunding sites like GoFundMe, but also a number of others that have built SaaS elements into their business models and use WePay to collect payments for services rendered in the cloud. These include FreshBooks, Meetup (itself recently acquired by WeWork, so watch this space), Constant Contact and Freshbooks.
The second will be to leverage Chase’s existing customer base of 4 million small and medium businesses. The idea will be not only to provide payments services to these businesses where they are needed, but also a wider suite of business services beyond payments that already integrate with WePay, so that business customers can link up their banking accounts to these and use them more efficiently. This will solve a major issue around settlements for these businesses, Clerico told me in an interview.
“Most of the time with merchant providers, it’s between two business days to a week to get the money into your account,” he said. End-of-day and other “real time” settlement services that do exist tend to come at a premium. Square, for example, offers a faster option, but it’s priced at one percent of the total deposit amount, which really can add up if you’re an SMB.  “We think with some of these capabilities we can rapidly increase settlement times for our customers,” Clerico added.
The third will be to use the WePay office as a beachhead of sorts to build out JP Morgan Chase’s interface with Silicon Valley to tap into more innovation from the startup world to augment the company’s legacy banking business.
To date, there has been something of a disconnect between legacy banking services and newer tech from startups, and Chase is no exception, with surprisingly few acquisitions to date from the fintech world. Perhaps the most notable prior to WePay was earlier this year, when Chase acquired the technology of MCX. MCX had started as a partner of Chase’s and then pivoted to focusing only on banking deals of this kind after it shelved plans to develop an ApplePay competitor called CurrentC.
“Part of thesis is to help Chase have a presence in Silicon Valley and be a top tech employer in the region,” Clerico said. WePay plans to double its employees to 400 in the next 18 months, which could mean further acquisitions to come. 
While Chase has not been an active acquirer up to now, it has been an active investor — for example, it has backed the likes of LevelUp, Bill.com and an incubator focused on fintech. Its portfolio could be a useful place to look if one is trying to guess what other kinds of startups Chase might be interested to pick up next.
“There is a lot of consolidation happening overall,” Clerico hinted. 

Featured Image: Oliver Burston/Getty Images


Ever get stuck for that perfect gag-line on a photo of your friends? You want to turn even an ordinary photo into an internet meme, but maybe you just can’t think of that hilarious caption? Well, now you too can outsource your creative brain to the coming Artificial Intelligence overlords. Yes, indeed there is an app for that.
Now Prisma — the photo-editing application that utilizes a neural network and AI to give artistic effect to an image — has integrated a startup’s AI to complement it’s growing list of tools. It’s clearly part of their ongoing strategy. Back in July Prisma launched Sticky, which turns selfies into stylized and/or animated stickers for sharing to your social feeds.
Sharing memes is a big trend but it helps if you have a sense of humor to create them. Now you can get an AI to suggest those clever quotes you might not come up with because Prisma is integrating the tool from a meme-generator app, GagBot.
GagBot uses AI and object recognition to automatically generate custom memes based on the content of a user’s photos. You upload a photo, and the AI use semantic analysis to create original quotes based on the content in the picture.
GagBot has recently raised a $500,000 funding round led by AltaIR Capital and including angel investors. In recent times meme sites have become huge: 9GAG, the Hong Kong based social site; iFunny is huge an internet humor site; and Imgur is now a stalwart of these kinds of entertainment sites.
In a statement , Prisma CEO and co-founder Alexey Moiseenkov said: “Prisma has already expanded to video and selfie stickers, but now we’d like to offer an impressive artificial intelligence services to our users. We see a lot of opportunities in Gagbot and we believe it will help to produce a greater user experience with AI — helping people to communicate easier”.
“Despite AI breaking into our lives more and more, for most of us it still remains alien. We wanted to connect AI with people and to show how it can be used in our daily life. That’s how we came up with the idea to teach AI to create memes. We all get dozens of memes a day from our friends, but not all of them are really funny, and many of them we’ve already seen on different resources. Gagbot helps to create unique content without any effort. You do not even need to have wit, AI will do everything for you” said Viktor Mangazeev, Gagbot co-founder.
So, there goes human creativity guys…

“AI and its applications is something AltaIR Capital focuses on. Coupled with the popularity of imaging technology in social media, by combining the two, GagBot created a unique product that has a lot of potential,” commented Igor Ryabenkiy, AltaIR Capital partner.
The Gagbot team consists of Ivan Novikov, an AI expert, an CEO of Wallarm, a “next gen” web security solution. Wallarm raised $2.3 million after going through the Y Combinator from Partech Ventures, along with $500,000 USD seed investment from Runa Capital. Viktor Mangazeev, CEO of uTrener – a daily mobile fantasy sports operator, that raised $2 million from group of angel investors. Also co-founding is Anastasia Shvetsova, a PR professional and former journalist who has worked with WeWork, Houzz, HotelTonight, Facebook, Instagram, PayPal among other companies.
It’s interesting to note this move from Prisma, as it’s clearly trying to become the go-to company for all these meme-generation tools.
It recently shifted focus onto the b2b space, building tools for developers that draw on its expertise using neural networks and deep learning technology to power visual effects on mobile devices. It’s launched a new website, Prismalabs.ai, detailing this new offering.


Cars these days are basically computers with wheels, and as with other computers, you’ll probably want to make a few changes to protect against cyberthreats. Trillium, presenting today on Disrupt Berlin’s Startup Battlefield stage, is looking to be the security solution for in-car computer systems, adding extra encryption, intrusion detection and other firewall-like features.
We’ve already seen demonstrations of cars being hacked while on the road; the danger may be largely theoretical today, but it could make the jump to practical tomorrow.
“Hacked cars pose a far greater danger than hacked desktop consumers,” Trillium’s Adrian Sossna told me. “The possible damage that a rogue hacked car can make is vast. It’s already happening, and I am concerned that we will see large hacks in the next 12 months.”
It behooves auto manufacturers to inoculate against it, considering how hard they’re pushing connectivity as a marquee feature. Trillium aims to be a one-stop shop for that protection.



Trillium-0128




Trillium-0131




Trillium-0135




Trillium-0129




Trillium-0132




tc_disrupt_berlin-trillium-2834




Trillium-0134




trillium_kit




Trillium-0133




Trillium-0137




tc_disrupt_berlin-trillium-2825




tc_disrupt_berlin-trillium-2839




tc_disrupt_berlin-trillium-2841




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Trillium’s software lives on the car’s computing hardware, doing a couple of main duties. First, it encrypts all in-car transmissions; this prevents a security soft spot like a backseat media screen or Wi-Fi hotspot from becoming a back door into more critical systems. And second, it watches over the car’s networks for unusual activity that could indicate an intrusion attempt. The software updates itself.
To be clear, this isn’t something you’ll plug in and install on your 2014 Accord. You can’t actually fiddle with your car’s internals to that extent — it would be a serious safety hazard if anyone could tweak their car’s engine control unit at will. Instead, it would be built into cars at the model level based on the needs of certain markets.
“Trillium’s solution is built to be embedded into the car when it rolls out of the factory,” explained Sossna. “Our future end-customer is a fleet owner that needs to protect its employees, cargo and society at large from car hacks.”
So imagine you’re a cab company and you’re going to lease 20 new Priuses (Prii?) to add to your fleet. Looking at the models available, you see some have bigger wheels, some have leather trim, and so on — and some will have Trillium built in. Considering a bad hack could do irreparable damage to your business, you’ll probably want that last option. And eventually, Trillium’s founders theorize, insurance could require this sort of thing, at which point it ceases being an option and becomes a standard safety feature.

The pricing model is simple: $10 per car per month (not per day, as I had written here earlier), paid by fleet owners, not drivers or manufacturers — think ambulance and limo companies, metro authorities, and so on. That way it’s a continuing service that justifies itself with frequent updates.
Of course, car manufacturers and in-car systems makers are already working on security measures, but Trillium plans to improve on those capabilities — while also working as a turnkey solution that can easily be adapted to nearly any model. Currently the company is working on its final product with OEM, insurance, and Tier 1 supplier partners in Japan.

Trillium claims to be hardware, OS, and cypher agnostic, so it can easily be adapted for a new model or deployed across multiple vehicle classes that might not share their network components. It works because their software acts more as a transport layer, not digging deep into the applications and data themselves but just moderating their communications.
Cybersecurity in the automotive world is almost certain to become a major market, but it remains to be seen if there’s room for an ambitious startup solution like Trillium’s.


Watching video playback of a game’s key moments is an important part of coaching — but according to the team at AISpotter, it can also be tedious and time-consuming. That’s why they’re working to automate the process.
AISpotter took the stage today in Berlin as part of TechCrunch’s Startup Battlefield. CEO Anri Kivimäki explained that sports teams are already recording a lot of video of their matches (both for broadcast and internal use). Coaches then go through the video manually, or they send it off for someone else to create clips of the highlights, a process that can take a day or more.
The startup spun out of the University of Oulu in Finland, with computer vision technology that can look at video and identify different types of plays — and eventually, individual players.
That means it can digest footage and automatically create a timeline for the coach that allows them to jump to the most relevant moments in a game (and they get to specify what’s relevant to them). In the future, a coach might be able to share all the clips featuring a single player with that player.



aispotter screenshot




AI-Spotter-0125




AI-Spotter-0126




AI-Spotter-0123




AI-Spotter-0122




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


AISpotter charges 100 euro per video analyzed. Kivimäki said it usually takes about an hour to create the analysis, though the platform can also take advantage of other data about the game to shave that time down to 10 minutes.
She acknowledged that there are products trying to automate parts of the coaching process, but she said those products are focused on statistics, not videos. “Some companies produce 60 pages of numerical data, but for coaches and for players, it’s not that helpful.”
The company is currently aiming to work with football (soccer) and ice hockey teams: Football because it’s the most popular sport in the world, hockey because in Finland, “We are good in hockey.” Kivimäki isn’t necessarily looking to sign up top-tier teams (though AISpotter would happily work with them), but rather professional teams in the levels below the Premier League.
And again, the teams are usually recording the needed footage already, but if necessary, AI Spotter can also install the necessary (off-the-shelf) cameras.
Ultimately, Kivimäki and her CTO Sami Huttunen said the technology could be applied to other sports. And it could be used in areas outside coaching, like fan engagement, betting and scouting.


Notch creators Eszter Ozsvald and Stepan Boltalin have been working on their project since 2013 and are finally ready to unveil their final product on the Disrupt Berlin stage. The company, which received funding through SOSVentures and Hax Accelerator, allows users to scan their bodies in motion, allowing for powerful analytics on golf swings, gymnastics, routines and everyday activities.
The company is currently working with partners to create 3D recordings of various PGA instructions and pro golf players. One partner, 4DMotionSports, is creating 3D recordings of athletes for later playback.
“Notch is the first company to bring true motion capture to smartphones and the only platform for motion capture-based apps that offers SDK for Android and iOS for building consumer-ready motion analysis products,” said Ozsvald. “Compared to other products, Notch allows scalability from one to dozens of sensors and cost savings up to 10 times compared to products utilizing similar principles.”



notch-0114




notch-0111




notch-0106




notch-0113




notch-0109




notch-0108




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


You can order a six-sensor Notch kit for $387 and they’ve already sold 10,000 devices in the past few years.
The company completed a successful Kickstarter and is now releasing their commercial product and app.


Apple is expanding its social media outreach. The company has just launched a new YouTube channel to teach people how to use their Apple devices, like the iPhone and iPad, via video tutorials. The first set of videos focus on common and fairly simple tasks, like taking screenshots, adding attachments to email, deleting photos, changing the wallpaper and more.
The videos are short, with most around the minute-and-a-half mark, and the longest being two minutes. They also include English captions for accessibility, and are formatted with instructions on the left with a demo on the device to the right.
The new channel was first spotted by 9to5Mac, which noted that Apple had before posted similar “how to” videos on its main Apple YouTube channel in the past.

Apple has not yet made a formal announcement regarding its plans for the channel going forward, but it seems it could lend itself to a variety of tutorial videos, including those for non-iOS devices in the future, if it chose. It’s also unclear how often new videos will be posted, as the channel was initially seeded with 10 videos posted at the same time.
Already, the new resource has nearly 7,000 subscribers, and individual videos have hundreds of views apiece. The most popular, so far, is the featured video “how to take a screenshot,” which has over 2K views as of the time of writing.

This isn’t Apple’s only social media account by far.
In addition to its main YouTube channel, Apple runs Twitter accounts like Apple, Apple Education, App Store, and Apple Support, as well as an Facebook page, a couple Tumblrs, and multiple Instagram accounts, most recent addition being one to showcase photos shot on iPhone.


Instacart has inked a deal with Albertsons to offer same-day delivery from the grocery store chain.
The deal will include 1,800 of Albertsons stores across the country by mid-2018, helping Instacart deliver on its promise to be available in 80 percent of markets across the U.S. by the end of 2018.
This isn’t Albertsons first foray into the tech space. Earlier this year, the company introduced same-day delivery as well as Drive-up & Go, and Albertsons also acquired meal-kit company Plated for $200 million in September.
The Instacart deal will be complimentary to Albertsons’ existing same-day delivery.
While the Amazon/Whole Foods deal surely poses a challenge for Instacart, the merger also presents an opportunity. With one of the world’s biggest ecommerce giants focusing squarely on groceries, incumbent grocers across the country are being forced to keep pace and offer online shopping and delivery. In many cases, that means turning to Instacart to offer customers an online shopping portal and hand-to-hand delivery.
Here’s what Instacart CEO Apoorva Metha had to say in a prepared statement:
Families across the nation trust and rely on Albertsons Companies’ stores for their fresh groceries and everyday essentials. We couldn’t be more excited to work with the company’s legendary brands from coast-to-coast to offer customers a new convenient, time-saving option for shopping at their neighborhood store.
Albertsons is the third-largest grocery retailer in North America behind Walmart and Kroger’s. Instacart has signed on the top six grocers in NA with the exception of Walmart, which is testing its own delivery that would give delivery people access to your home to leave goods in the fridge.


A new partnership between autonomous driving startup Optimus Ride and release estate developer LStar Ventures will see self-driving vehicle access offered up to residents of a new urban development near Boston called Union Point, via a revenue generating last mile commuter and local destination autonomous travel service.
The partnership will see the Union Point neighborhood, which occupies 1,550 acres just over 10 miles south of Boston, loaded out with a fleet provided by Optimus Ride that will operate driverless vehicle service connecting the community to South Weymouth rail station, and also operating within the development itself.
This is possible because Optimus Ride, an MIT spinout company founded by a team of DARPA Urban Challenge competitors and other autonomous driving engineers, has secured a self-driving vehicle test permit from the Massachusetts Department of Transportation, giving it the okay to field autonomous cars in the commonwealth.
This represents “the word’s first revenue generation autonomous vehicle pilot program,” according to Optimus Ride, meaning the first in which members of the public will pay for access to a commercial service offering. Waymo has been operating an autonomous test pickup service in Arizona, but it has not been using it to generate revenue from rides thus far.
The goal is to begin picking up passengers with the new service starting in early 2018, according to Optimus and LStar, and to incorporate other smart infrastructure tech into the Union Point development, which is being built from the ground up as a model smart city.


While Photoshop users have gotten pretty damn good at masking humans and other subjects over the years, it still remains one of the most tedious tasks in the app. But the days of Magic Wand masking will soon be over.
Adobe today teased an upcoming feature that uses AI to identify and automatically mask subjects in the image. The feature is called Select Subject and it uses Adobe’s AI platform, Sensei.
From the “Select and Mask” menu, simply click anywhere on the image and it will automatically identify and select the various subjects in the image. From there, the same tools to change the background or edit the subject are available.
Adobe teased the feature in a video, saying that it will be available in the next iteration of Photoshop.

That said, there’s no timeline for Photoshop future releases.
As Engadget notes, the Select Subject tool isn’t perfect and still has some trouble identifying fine details like strands of hair, but it should get better over time as the machine learning algorithm takes in more data.


On the heels of news that Amazon may have accounted for half of Black Friday online sales, the retailer today announced that the Black Friday holiday shopping weekend – which it defines as Thanksgiving through Cyber Monday – was its best-ever, in terms of Amazon devices sold. The company historically doesn’t release hard numbers related to its device sales. Instead, it claims that “millions” of Alexa devices were sold during this time frame.
One notable item it did share was that its Echo Dot and Amazon Fire TV Stick with Alexa Voice Remote were not only the best-selling Amazon devices during this sales holiday, but they were also the best-selling products from any manufacturer in any category on Amazon.
Of course, that’s not too surprising given that Amazon gave its devices a big push this year, offering deep discounts to encourage shoppers to buy.
For example, Amazon slashed the price on its Echo Dot on Cyber Monday to $29.99 – the lowest price ever for the small Alexa-powered speaker. It also took advantage of its newly acquired brick-and-mortar footprint to market the device at its Whole Food stores during this sales holiday, which made the Echo Dot the best-seller at those locations, the retailer noted.
Amazon’s Fire TV Stick, meanwhile, was discounted $15 to bring it to $24.99 on Cyber Monday, vastly undercutting its closest rival, the Roku Streaming Stick with voice remote, which is $49.99. The retailer said customers purchased 2.7x more Fire TV Sticks than they did last year, which could also be an indication of the drive towards cord cutting and streaming, more so than the popularity of Amazon’s streaming stick in particular.
“Customers purchased millions of Amazon’s Alexa-enabled devices this weekend, and Alexa devices were the top sellers across all of Amazon,” said Dave Limp, Senior Vice President, Amazon Devices & Services, in a statement. “We’re excited that tens of millions of customers around the world will be using Alexa to prepare for the holidays.”
That “tens of millions” is about as close as Amazon gets to talking about Alexa devices sales figures. It’s the same figure CEO Jeff Bezos dropped in Amazon’s Q3 2017 earnings release, seemingly a confirmation that Amazon has sold more than 20 million Alexa devices. That’s in line with earlier estimates of 16.1 million Echo devices sold through the end Q2.
Voicebot’s analysis of Bezos’ earlier statement estimates that Echo sales to date have totaled 19.5 – 21.5 million units, while non-Echo smart speakers with Alexa built-in were in the 1 million unit range through Q3 2017.
Note that Amazon didn’t announce “record” sales for this 2017 holiday shopping weekend, only record numbers of Amazon devices sold. That could mean that shoppers were spreading their dollars around among other online retailers. [Update, 11/29/17: A day after publication, Amazon did announce a record Cyber Monday.]
This year, shoppers spent a record $5.03 billion in Black Friday online sales in the U.S., and a record-breaking $6.59 billion in Cyber Monday online sales. Those numbers extend far beyond Amazon.
But don’t worry about Amazon – it made up its own sales holiday called Prime Day, which was the biggest sales day in company history in 2017 and the year prior.


In February of this year, Airbnb acquired social payments startup Tilt. Today, the fruits of that acquisition are being passed along to Airbnb users.
Starting now, Airbnb users have the ability to split payments with their fellow travelers. Before now, one traveler was forced to front the cost of the trip and hope that their friends/colleagues/family were responsible enough to pay them back in a timely fashion.
Payment splitting will work with up to 16 travelers, offering plenty of flexibility for large groups who travel together.
Airbnb says that 30 percent of reservations booked with the payments splitting tool (which has been in testing), led to one or more new users on Airbnb. So, while this is a useful feature for users, it’s also a growth tool for Airbnb.
On Christmas Day in 2016, Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky asked users what features they want most on Airbnb. According to the company, payment splitting was one of the top requests in response to the tweet.


If @Airbnb could launch anything in 2017, what would it be?
— Brian Chesky (@bchesky) December 26, 2016



As part of the announcement, Airbnb ran a survey with the help of Pollfish and DKC Analytics speaking to 2000 adults in the U.S. between November 15 and November 18. From that sample, 43 percent of them have lost $1,000 or more in repayments from group trips. Moreover, 18 percent say they’ve lost $10,000 or more from not getting repaid after group trips, and 29 percent have fought with a friend over group trip repayment.
Here’s how it works:

When a trip organizer puts in a request to book a listing, the organizer’s portion of the payment is charged on their credit card, bringing up a menu to share the booking with other members of the travel group. They then have 72 hours to log in to Airbnb and pay their portion.
Within the blog post, Airbnb mentions that this workflow applies to “listings that qualify for split payments” but didn’t clarify what that means or what percentage of Airbnb listings qualify. We’ve reached out and will update the post when we hear back.
Update: Airbnb got back to us. There are a few qualifications for split payment listings: the reservation must start at least 10 days from the time of booking and the stay must be for less than 27 days. In other words, it has nothing to do with the listing itself, but rather the length of the stay and the notice of the reservation.

Featured Image: Carl Court/Getty Images


If you’ve ever tried to do business across borders, you know how painful it can be to send a wire transfer, wait for the payment to clear the bank and pay a set of fees along the way. Veem is a startup trying to simplify all of that for SMBs by providing a platform to ease the international transfer of funds between businesses. Today, it announced it was opening up that capability to developers in the form of an API.
Up until now, users could go to the Veem website, or they could use the direct integration inside Quickbooks, Xero and Netsuite, three accounting platforms that are popular with SMBs (small to medium sized businesses).
To use Veem, the parties involved simply sign up online on the Veem website to create an account. Instead of requiring a ton of information to make the transfer, all you need is an email. You enter the amount and the email of the recipient and Veem handles the cross-border transfers and makes money on the exchange rate.
It’s worth noting that general foreign exchange fees are typically around 4 percent with bank wire transfers. Depending on the transaction, Veem takes between a half and 2 percent on exchange, making it a much cheaper and easier option for small businesses to use.
When small businesses make these kinds of international monetary transfers, there are also rules and regulations to deal with, which Veem can also handle including bills of sale or lading and other details the receiving bank may require.
This is really where opening this up to other platforms other than the three accounting packages could shine. It enables programmers to add international payments to any app by connecting to the Veem API.
This not only opens up this capability to developers, greatly simplifying something that’s actually quite complicated, it provides a way for Veem to appear inside more applications without dealing with the integration themselves. It also provides a way to build Veem usage without having users go directly to the Veem site.
The company does not charge developers for connecting to Veem, making it an attractive option for programmers. Instead, it continues to make money off of the exchange rate fees
Veem launched in 2014 and has raised over $44 million.

Featured Image: Rawpixel/Getty Images


All of the hyper-scale cloud providers love to tout their new customer acquisitions: Google talking about Spotify; Microsoft signing up various Adobe services for Azure; or AWS working with the likes of GE. That’s a sign of how competitive this market is, despite AWS’s continuing market share leadership.
At its annual re:Invent conference in Las Vegas, Amazon’s cloud service today announced that Turner, Time-Warner’s entertainment, sports and news company, is making AWS its preferred cloud provider. Turner’s brands and partners include channels like TBS, TNT, Cartoon Network, CNN and Adult Swim.
Turner says that it is bringing “decades of content” to the AWS cloud, including CNN’s 15-petabyte video archive. The company is also moving thousands of virtual machines to AWS and expects to use a wide range of Amazon’s AI technologies to better analyze and extract video metadata to offer its viewers enhanced personalized experiences and, of course, to help its advertisers, content creators and analysts better understand viewing trends (the emphasis here is probably on the advertisers).
“We’re changing our broadcast technology stack to a fully digital, cloud environment built on AWS, which will enable us to adapt to new video delivery models, as well as provide our viewers with more personalized content and advertisement,” said Turner CTO Jeremy Legg in a canned statement. “Our relationship with AWS and the services they provide are essential to our success. Given that we reach over 80 percent of adults and 70 percent of millennials every month, we needed a cloud provider that has the ability to support massive-scale media businesses like ours which often have spikes in demand across our diverse portfolio.”
AWS stressed that Turner isn’t the first media company to make the move to its cloud. Others include the BBC, C-SPAN, Hulu, Netflix, PBS, GoPro, Lionsgate and Spotify (which still keeps a presence on the AWS platform).

Featured Image: John Greim/Getty Images


Remember how VMware was supposed to be disrupted by AWS? Somewhere along the way it made a smart move. Instead of fighting the popular cloud platform, it decided to make it easier for IT to use its products on AWS. Today, at the opening of the AWS re:invent customer conference, it announced plans to expand that partnership with some new migration and disaster recovery services.
As Mark Lohmeyer, VP of the VMware cloud platform business unit pointed out, it’s only been a quarter since they made the original product generally available. The new products are designed to help ease the transition to the cloud.
One of the issues VWmare customers have struggled with, is simply moving their mission critical applications from their datacenters to the cloud. Lohmeyer says the new migration product is designed to move applications quickly with no down time and for a reasonable cost (although that’s probably in the eye of the beholder). If it works as advertised, it really gives IT the best of both worlds.
They can move their applications lock, stock and barrel from the datacenter to AWS and continue to monitor and manage them in the way they have been. If there truly is no downtime, this makes for an easy cloud transition, whether a company wants to start slowly and move an application or two or has plans to shut down the company datacenter and needs to move everything.
What’s more, VMware is sweetening the pot by offering reserved pricing discounts over the traditional hourly pricing model. That means if you sign up for a year or three years you get a discount, although the amount will vary depending on volume and other factors. They are also introducing hybrid licenses, which allow customers to continue to use their on-prem licenses when they move to the cloud. All of these factors could reduce the overall cost of transitioning to the cloud over standard pricing approaches.
VMware also announced a new disaster recover product. This enables IT to keep a copy of applications and data in the cloud on AWS. In the event of a disaster like a massive hurricane, power outage or other misfortune they can keep going with minimal disruption. “If you have a failure in your on-prem cloud, you can organize a restart on AWS,” Lohmeyer explained.
The disaster recovery tool also helps those companies that may be slow to move to the cloud to get more comfortable with the idea. If you can store your disaster recovery backup in the cloud, you may be ready to move the actual applications at some point too.
VMware was the company that popularized the virtual machine concept and today it is the premiere datacenter product. The problem for VMware has been that the future is moving out of the datacenter and into the cloud. Its first idea was to try to build its own public cloud service and compete with AWS. When that idea fizzled, VMware had a Plan B and that was to partner with the other cloud vendors. The biggest of those is of course AWS.
As Lohmeyer sees it, this partnership is good for everyone. “It’s good for customers because they can readily take advantage of the cloud model. It’s good for VMware because we are keeping the customers on our platforms and growing the workloads. And it’s good for AWS because there are more workloads running on their platform.”
If it works as described, that’s the ingredients for an ideal partnership.


Today is #GivingTuesday, a global day of giving that always falls on the first Tuesday after Thanksgiving.
This year Facebook is again partnering with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to match up to $2M in donations to fundraisers held on Facebook by nonprofits. Additionally, Facebook is waiving its typical 5% fee on donations to U.S-based nonprofits all day long.
It’s a big step up from last year for both groups, when Facebook only waived fees up to $500,000 and the Gates Foundation only matched $500,000 (but later increased it to $900,000 as the original milestone was hit within hours). Last year on Giving Tuesday Facebook raised $6.79M total via their fundraising platform, and $168M was raised worldwide by all participants.
Matching for U.S nonprofits will be capped at $50,000, or $1,000 per fundraiser or donate button until the $2M matching limit is hit.
This $1,000 limit means that the most successful nonprofits will have lots of individual fundraisers and donate buttons created by a variety of Facebook users, and not just rely on ones created by themselves.
So in additional to actually donating money you can help by creating fundraiser for a nonprofit here, or just add a donate button to a Facebook post by typing #donate. There’s also an option to go live and add a donate button to your live stream, essentially letting you create your own mini-telethon.
Matching starts at 8am ET, so if you’re planning on donating to a your favorite charity make sure you do it early in case the matching funds run out.


Featured Image: Frederic Stevens/Getty Images


Here, the mapping company that powers location services in 100 million cars, is today announcing an acquisition to vastly improve how it distributes and updates its data. The company is buying Advanced Telematic Systems (ATS), a Berlin-based developer of secure over-the-air (OTA) technology, the basis for how wireless devices — including not just cars but smartphones and other hardware — get their systems updated securely — and also, these days, help feed back information to improve how those systems operate.
Here has “only had a limited capability in [OTA technology] until now,” a spokesperson tells TechCrunch. “The ATS acquisition will make us a major player in this area.”
Financial terms of the deal — which is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2018 — are not being disclosed.
Founded in 2014 by Armin Schmidt, Dirk Pöschl and Arthur Taylor, ATS had earlier raised over $12 million, Here tells me, from consortium of Japanese, US and Taiwanese VCs. Pitchbook notes they include iD Ventures America (formerly known as Acer Technology Ventures), Japan’s IT-Farm Corporation, and the Taiwanese ODM maker Wistron, formerly the manufacturing arm of Acer before getting spun out.
“This is an exciting opportunity for ATS as we will be able to combine HERE’s deep customer relationships with OEMs and our global client and partner network to deliver new commercial solutions and enhance the existing functionality of HERE products and services,” said Schmidt, ATS’s CEO. “We now look forward to joining a business with an inspirational vision to shape the autonomous world.”
(This is Schmidt’s and Taylor’s second exit; they had previously co-founded Aupeo, a music streaming service that was acquired by Panasonic.)
The significance of this deal is that it is about Here getting with the times and continuing to modernise itself.
Once part of Nokia but spun out in a €2.5 billion deal, Here is now owned by a consortium that includes the carmakers Audi, BMW and Daimler and Intel (an attempted stake purchase by GIC, Tencent and NavInfo was blocked by CFIUS in the U.S.). Today, Here claims that its 100 million installs makes it the world’s largest provider of mapping data to the automotive industry.
Its legacy is an old one: Here originally was formed in part through Nokia’s acquisition of Navteq in 2007, which itself had been around since 1985. That age in part underscores the need for the company to invest in, and acquire, more modern technology.
In the case of OTA, ATS’s solution is built around open source OTA technology. Notably, in June it integrated with Uptane, a security framework backed by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security designed specifically for software that runs on autonomous and connected cars — the idea being that vehicles could be especially deadly if they are maliciously hacked, and the aim here is to try to prevent that from happening.
Another situation to try to prevent is the migration of customers to competitors. Companies like Mapbox, Google and more are also building mapping systems that they would like to power the car of the future (and present, if you are so fortunate to have a fancy, new car). This is another reason behind Here wanting ATS and its tech.
OTA technology has been around for years as a way for mobile carriers to update settings on phones that are on their network, but it’s taken a more proactive turn in more recent times.
Not only are the systems in cars far more complex — covering not just HD maps but real-time pictures of road environments, entertainment services and information, navigation and more — but software engineers are now using the network of devices not so much as dumb endpoints, but as new data gathering tools to continue to feed back information to the central system to improve how it works overall.
This is especially important in the world of mapping, where road conditions and sometimes the roads themselves, are changing constantly, meaning satellite imaging — the basis for a lot of legacy and modern maps — cannot do the full job.
“Data and software delivery is a defining factor for future success within the automotive industry as vehicles are becoming more connected and autonomous,” said Ralf Herrtwich, SVP Automotive of HERE, in a statement. “The acquisition of ATS is a hugely important strategic investment for us to complement our portfolio as a premium automotive cloud provider. I’m excited to welcome Armin and his team into the HERE family.”
Updated with more information about the ownership of Here, and its underlying tech.


Russian software giant Yandex took its prototype self-driving taxi out for its first real-world snow test last weekend. It says the Prius model prototypes clocked up 300km in total during the test. It’s put out the above video demoing the two cars in action.
“We have been working to prepare algorithms for winter ‘at garage’ for a while, so last weekend tests in real world was just the first time we got all confirmations,” Dmitry Polishchuk, head of Yandex.Taxi’s self-driving project, told us.
Computer vision systems for autonomous vehicles can’t of course be engineered to only encounter perfect road conditions. Just like human drivers these systems need to be ready and able to adapt, come rain or shine.
On the weather front, snow is considered especially challenging, given it can mask road markings which could confuse navigation systems, while also adding a potentially slippery surface to the driving mix. So it’s an important step in the testing process.
That said, there are lots more steps to go. Yandex has not yet tested the self-driving prototypes on public roads where they will encounter their biggest challenge: Interacting with human drivers.
It says it hopes to start public road tests next year, although that will also first require a thawing in the local regulatory landscape — as Russia currently prohibits the use of self-driving vehicles on public roads.
In the meanwhile, Polishchuk claims the first snow test for the Yandex.Taxi prototype went off smoothly. “There was nothing unexpected,” he says, adding: “Computer vision algorithms should be specially tuned to work properly when the snow is falling and covering road surface, and driving technology should count slick surface when choosing speed mode.
“We will continue tests during the whole winter to make sure our technology for driverless car is reliable for such condition.”
The company debuted its self-driving car project in May, saying it was using custom-built hardware plus generally available mass market components for the prototypes, while also developing its own self-driving software in house — drawing on its existing expertise in image matching for search and translating text within photos within its language service offerings.
In related news, earlier this week Russian regulators gave Uber and Yandex the greenlight for a joint venture in Russia. In July the companies announced their plans to merge operations in the region, with Uber and Yandex both investing in a new joint company — but Yandex owning a majority share of it.


Senators Kamala D. Harris (D-CA), Richard Burr (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), as well as Rep. Jackie Speier introduced a bill today to address revenge porn. The bill, Ending Nonconsenual Online User Graphic Harassment (ENOUGH) Act of 2017, is designed to address the unwanted sharing of private, explicit images.
The ENOUGH Act would specifically ensure the Department of Justice has tools in place to address revenge porn, and establish federal criminal liability for those who share revenge porn and other consensual images. In order to prosecute someone under the ENOUGH Act, there would need to be proof that the person knew the victim expected the image to remain private, and that sharing the image would harm the victim.
“A prosecution would also have to prove that no reasonable person would consider the shared image to touch on a matter of public concern,” the release states.
This bill comes after Rep. Speier introduced a version of the bill, the intimate Privacy Protection Act of 2016, in the 114th Congress. The bill, however, only made it to the House of Representatives.
“Perpetrators of exploitation who seek to humiliate and shame their victims must be held accountable,” Senator Harris said in a press release. “It is long past time for the federal government to take action to give law enforcement the tools they need to crack down on these crimes.”
The bill, which has bi-partisan support, also has support from tech companies like Twitter and Facebook. In the last year, Facebook and Twitter have made some efforts to crack down on revenge porn. In April, Facebook implemented a photo-matching technology to ensure people can re-share images previously reported and tagged as revenge porn. Last month, Twitter updated its policy to state that no one can post or share “intimate photos or videos” of someone without their consent.
Revenge porn is a widespread issue on the internet, with one in 25 people in the U.S. being victims of non-consensual image sharing, according to a 2016 report from the Data & Society Research Institute and the Center for Innovative Public Health Research. Of those affected by the sharing of consensual intimate images, 93 percent of people report “significant emotional distress” and 82 percent report significant difficulties in other aspects of their lives, according to the US Victims of Non-Consensual Intimate Images.
“For victims of nonconsensual pornography, technology today makes it possible to destroy a person’s life with the click of a button or a tap on a cell phone,” Congressperson Speier said in a statement. “The damage caused by these attacks can crush careers, tear apart families, and, in the worst cases, has led to suicide. What makes these acts even more despicable is that many predators have gleefully acknowledged that the vast majority of their victims have no way to fight back. Even in states that have laws on the books, the average person can’t afford to take on these predators in civil courts. Worse are the numerous victims who have mustered the courage and strength to pursue criminal charges, only to learn there is no law that protects them. The ENOUGH Act will fix this gaping hole in our legal system.”

Featured Image: Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call/Getty Images


StrideUp, a U.K. startup founded last year by Sakeeb Zaman and Rohan Trivedi, both formerly of Deutsche Bank, wants to make shared home ownership more readily available within the private housing sector.
The company, which launched in the summer, lets you buy a portion of your home while you continue to rent the remainder. The idea, Trivedi tells me, is to provide an alternative to a mortgage, a form of financing that is increasingly out of reach for many.
Citing official figures from 2016, the StrideUp co-founder says that house prices in the U.K. are an average 7.6 times the average annual salary, more than double the figure for 20 years ago. Conversely, average mortgage amounts offered to first time buyers sit at just 3.6 times salary.
Shared ownership — where you and your landlord both own a percentage of the home you live in — is one solution to this problem. As and when you can afford to purchase more, you increase your stake at the current market valuation (and, in turn, reduce your rent), until eventually you own the home outright or can secure a conventional mortgage to do so.
“Our typical customers are first time buyers in their mid/late 20s to late 30s. They have spent five-plus years renting and want to get on to the property ladder but traditional mortgage finance is unable to bridge the gap between where they want to live and what they can buy,” says Trivedi.
“StrideUp breaks down the binary nature of homeownership where you rent (and own nothing) versus trying to buy a home using a mortgage and owning a 100 percent. With StrideUp people can start by buying a portion of their home, say 10 percent or 20 percent, and as they live in the property, they gradually increase their ownership”.
On competitors, Trivedi says the closest offering in the U.K. is the Government’s Shared Ownership schemes, which are well liked but constrained by supply. “StrideUp offers a significantly more flexible product, where home buyers are able to pick their home from any property on the open market. They can live where they want, in the type of property they want and not have to be on a waiting list for years,” he says. Another startup eyeing up the space is Unmortgage.
The way StrideUp works is that as a prospective homebuyer you sign up and apply via the startup’s website. You then get assessed by its tech/algorithm and receive a budget or the maximum property value you should target. Next you are tasked with finding a property on the open market that best fits your needs and then submit it to StrideUp for approval.
The startup’s data models will then help you determine what is a fair offer on the property, before you make an offer to the seller, as you would however you were financing your property. Once your offer is accepted, StrideUp will support you through the buying process (where you’ll need to arrange a surveyor and solicitor etc.) and provide the additional financing when you’re ready to exchange.
Meanwhile, StrideUp’s business model is akin to a property investment platform. This sees institutional investors stump up much of the capital required to finance the homes the startup is partially buying and pocket most of the returns (ie the rent plus any increase in each property’s valuation, which is realised as an occupier increases their stake over time or the home is put back on the open market for sale). StrideUp itself makes money by charging an origination and management fee to investors.
To that end, the U.K. company is disclosing £1.6 million in seed funding. The round is a mixture of equity and debt financing led by Picus Capital, along with an unnamed group of angel investors with technology, finance and real estate expertise.


Baidu, China’s answer to Google, and Xiaomi, which has modeled itself on the success of the America’s most successful technology manufacturer in Apple, have announced a strategic partnership to tackle two emerging technologies, internet of things and artificial intelligence.
Announced today at Xiaomi’s first developer conference in Beijing, the alliance is a marriage between the third most valuable publicly traded Chinese technology company in Baidu and one of the world’s most valuable private firms, Xiaomi.
Clocking in with a market capitalization of $86 billion, Baidu is no slouch on the global technology stage — with AI and deep learning among its core focuses — while Xiaomi has become a key player in China and made inroads in emerging markets like India thanks to its affordable phones and smart devices which punch well above their price tag.
The duo are announcing a collaboration for the first time, but TechCrunch understands that Baidu’s conversational operating system — DuerOS — is already present in some Xiaomi hardware. That’s little known because it was left unbranded, but now the companies have made their partnership official.
Exact details of the tie-up are not being disclosed right now, but the two firms said will immediately explore opportunities in voice recognition, deep learning and computer vision, in addition to more work with  DuerOS. Further to that, Baidu’s tech reach also extends into robotics, AR, VR and self-driving cars, which could also be areas of joint cooperation in the future for Xiaomi.

Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun (left) with Baidu Vice Chairman, Group President and COO Qi Lu
Even if the two companies are just partnering for the domestic Chinese market a real partnership that does more than pay lip service to the potential benefits of technology sharing would make each far more competitive than either one on their own.
Baidu has favored a partnership based approach with hardware makers to get DuerOS and other tech into the hands of consumers. The company doesn’t charge a license fee for the OS — the same applies to this Xiaomi deal — and it claims to work with 130 companies that cover smartphones, smart TVs, smartwatches and home appliances.
Most notably, it recently released details of its first smart speaker, the very uniquely designed Raven series. The product was the fruit of its acquisition of hardware startup Raven earlier this year, but Baidu also roped in Sweden’s Teenage Engineering, which is known for pushing the envelope on hardware design.


Update: WeWork’s chief executive officer Adam Neumann confirmed in a blog post that it will buy Meetup.
Co-working space giant WeWork will acquire Meetup, according to Crunchbase News. The report says Meetup chief executive officer and co-founder Scott Heiferman shared the news with employees at a company-wide meeting on Monday.
WeWork declined to comment on the report. TechCrunch has also contacted Meetup.
Reportedly now valued at $20 billion, WeWork raised a massive $4.4 billion round from SoftBank Group and SoftBank Vision Fund this summer. The funding is fueling a shopping spree: over the past six months, WeWork has acquired Fieldlens, a communication system for the construction industry; Singaporean co-working space startup Spacemob; enterprise sales and marketing platform Unomy; and coding bootcamp Flatiron School. WeWork also recently paid $850 million for Lord & Taylor’s former Fifth Avenue flagship department store to serve as its Manhattan headquarters.
Founded in 2002, Meetup was an online pioneer when it launched to help groups of people organize offline gatherings based on shared interests. Since then, it’s come up against formidable competition from social media, especially Facebook groups.

Featured Image: Bloomberg/Contributor/Getty Images


French startup Doctolib is raising money for the second time in the past twelve months. The company is building a sort of Salesforce for the healthcare industry with a big emphasis on bookings. Doctolib just raised $42 million (€35 million) from Eurazeo and existing investor Bpifrance.
The startup announced another round of funding back in January 2017. If you combine those two rounds, Doctolib has raised $72.7 million (€61 million) in 2017, which makes it one of the best-funded health startups in Europe.
Doctolib has developed an online booking platform for all medical practitioners. It is already quite big in France as the startup handles around 7 million bookings every month. The company has recently expanded to Germany, and there are some encouraging signs in Germany as well.
So far, getting new doctors is much faster in Germany than during the beginnings of the service in France. The company now has five offices in Berlin, Munich, Cologne, Düsseldorf and Hamburg.
“We have already managed 1.5 million bookings in Germany,” co-founder and CEO Stanislas Niox-Chateau told me. “Pretty soon, we’re going to be as big in Germany as in France.”
In total, there are 30,000 health professionals using the platform with 12 million monthly visitors in France and Germany. But this isn’t your average marketplace. You can’t take a cut on medical transactions or use medical data because of privacy reasons.
That’s why the startup has decided to sell its service to practitioners directly. Each doctor pays €109 per month in France and €129 per month in Germany to replace their booking system with Doctolib. With a little back-of-the-envelope calculation, you can see that the company is already earning quite a lot of cash.
With today’s funding round, the company wants to be the undisputed leader in both Germany and France. Docotlib will hire 100 new employees in Germany and open an engineering office in Germany. Doctolib has 380 employees in total and also plans to hire 100 persons in France.
There’s still a lot of room to grow as only a small percentage of doctors already use a solution like Doctolib. Doctolib’s main competitor isn’t another online booking platform. The startup needs to convince doctors who still rely heavily on phone calls and outdated systems.
When you switch to Doctolib, your patients can see directly when you’re available. The startup also sends reminders, which reduces no shows. Finally, Doctolib can also tell you about earlier appointments if a patient cancels an appointment. Overall, Doctolib wants to help doctor spends less time doing administrative tasks, which should greatly improve their revenue.
But the company doesn’t plan to stop at bookings. Doctolib has been working hard on new products to create a suite of services for healthcare professionals. In addition to managing everything from appointments to your waiting room, the company is working on improving communication channels between doctors and patients, and between multiple practitioners. It’s still a bit vague, but I’m sure we’ll hear more about those new features in the coming months.

Featured Image: Yeko Photo Studio/Shutterstock


Today’s Stories 

David Karp is leaving Tumblr by the end of the year
Security business Barracuda Networks acquired for $1.6 billion
MIT and Harvard create cheap artificial muscles with super strength

Credits
Written by: Tito HamzeHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed by: Tito HamzeEdited by: Tito Hamze
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107


A SoftBank Group-led team of investors has made an offer to buy Uber’s shares in a tender offer that would value the company at about a 30% discount to Uber’s last private valuation of nearly $70 billion, a source with knowledge of the proposed deal tells TechCrunch. We’re hearing that the proposed price per share is $32.96, which works out to under $50 billion.
Bloomberg first reported the latest development, which follows months of talks about both a direct investment in the ride-hailing company at the company’s last private valuation of nearly $70 billion and also a large purchase of the shares of existing shareholders at the lower price.
Uber already announced a few weeks ago that was moving forward with the process, specifically that it “entered into an agreement with a consortium led by SoftBank and Dragoneer on a potential investment.”Now the tender offer is expected to launch tomorrow, which is the date we reported at the time.
It’s a package deal and the $1 billion investment at Uber’s last private valuation is contingent on the secondary happening. The tender would include nearly $9 billion of shares from existing shareholders, the amount needed to get the SoftBank-led group its desired 14% of the company.
We’re told that Uber employees with at least 10,000 of vested share will be eligible to sell. Other Uber shareholders, including venture capitalists, angel investors and former employees could also be eligible.
They are asking the sellers to be “accredited investors,” which is typical for buyers, but less common for sellers. This means that Uber employees who make less than $200,000 in salary, will also need to be worth $1 million to sell their shares (this includes the value of the shares). In other words, you already need to be “rich” to make more money here.
But for those eligible, this will finally give more employees an opportunity to turn paper money into cash.
We’re told it’s also possible that if SoftBank does not find enough sellers at the $32.96 share price, that they may raise the price to meet the desired 14% ownership.
Until recently, most Uber shareholders were prevented from selling. The $1 billion investment in the company will also help the company continue to fuel its growth as it prepares to grow public in 2019.
This is a big moment for Uber, in what has been a very difficult year. Uber has been dealt legal battles, including a patent lawsuit with Alphabet’s self-driving car division, and public outcry about its company culture. Co-founder and CEO Travis Kalanick was pressured to resign in June.
If the deal is completed, investor and board member Benchmark Capital has agreed to drop its lawsuit against Kalanick. The lawsuit related to Kalanick’s power to appoint three board seats, including his own. Kalanick recently named Ursula Burns and John Thain to those seats. If one of them gives up their spot, Kalanick will require a board vote to appoint a replacement, as long as the SoftBank deal is finalized.
 
 

Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images


A bit of a surprise just dropped for everyone poking around Pokémon GO this holiday season: a new legendary Pokémon, Ho-Oh.
Niantic usually debuts legendary Pokémon (the massive, super strong Pokémon that require groups of up to 20 players to take down and capture) with a bit of fanfare, but this one showed up pretty much out of nowhere. If you weren’t paying attention to Niantic’s social media feeds or actively watching the nearby raids screen, it’d be easy to miss.
Especially because it sounds like it’s only going to be here for a little while — Niantic says Ho-Oh will only appear in raid battles until 12/12.


Thanks to all your hard work last week, Ho-Oh will appear in Raid Battles until 12/12! #PokemonGOtravel #GlobalCatchChallenge https://t.co/YfyBGwfTux pic.twitter.com/mdGoFByyQl
— Pokémon GO (@PokemonGoApp) November 27, 2017


No one ever says hardware is easy, and today it looks like another promising startup has hit a wall. Navdy, which made an in-car heads-up display that projected info like navigation on to your windscreen, has been sending out notices to customers and others who might have claims against the company, as part of a General Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors.
The full note is at the end of this story.
This is not a bankruptcy per se, but an alternative to one, aimed at smaller businesses.
As part of it, the company Navdy Inc. (the assignor) is assigning its rights in tangible and intangible assets to Navdy LLC (the assignee) for liquidation.
Specifically:
“Assignee shall liquidate the Assets, wind down Assignor and distribute the net liquidation proceeds to creditors of Assignor who timely submit claims as instructed below,” reads a legal notice pertaining to the General Assignment, which is dated October 26.
Those who believe they may have a claim against Navdy should follow this link to make it. The deadline for submissions is April 24, 2018.
We’d actually been asking around about Navdy for the last couple of months, after a number of readers got in touch to point out that the company had gone radio silent on its social accounts and hadn’t been responding to customers with questions and problems.
We’d also heard from a source that the company was shopping itself around.
Doug Simpson, the founder and CEO, himself responded to my most blatant question of all, sent as a message to Navdy’s Twitter account after previous notes got no reply.
“Are you still in business?” I asked.
“Hi Ingrid. Yes of course we are! Weird question but thanks for checking in on us,” Simpson replied. He followed up to see if we’d be interested in hearing about news when there was news to share.
Those emails were dated October 30, four days after the General Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors was made.
We have reached out once again to Simpson, as well as the company’s press contact, to try to get more information. We have also contacted Renault, who is apparently working with the company and one of its strategic investors, Harman, to integrate the Navdy into its cars from next year.
We have also tried to contact several investors. One has confirmed to us that Navdy has not been in touch before or since sending out the liquidation notice to customers.
What’s still not completely clear is if the company is completely shutting down, or about to embark on a pivot of some kind and this is a move to clear the decks.
On November 20, the company’s Twitter account replied to a customer who couldn’t get a response to multiple attempts to contact the company, saying that it was in the middle of a reorganization.


We're here and appreciate your patience while we work through a backlog and reorganization. :)
— navdy (@navdyInc) November 20, 2017



It’s been a long journey for Navdy. The company got its start on Kickstarter in 2014, when its campaign to fund its heads-up display went viral.
The company later moved into more traditional VC fundraising, picking up just under $42 million from investors that included Harman, Qualcomm, Upfront Ventures, Kima and many more.
Its heads-up display eventually launched priced at $799 in 2016, later dropping the price to $499. You can read our full (mostly positive) review here.
But the heads-up display market is very crowded — see the 15 best heads-up displays — and even more so, considering that this isn’t a mainstream product today. Indeed, for many the jury may still be out on whether a display on your windscreen is less or more distracting than other kinds of displays and interfaces. Together, all this makes for a tricky product/market fit.
What Navdy does have is an interesting team of technologists and lots of research and work, and so hopefully this will not be the end of the road for the startup.
We’ll update as we learn more.
Full note sent to customers below:

To whom this may concern:
Navdy, Inc. (“Navdy” or the “Company”) has undertaken an assignment for the benefit of creditors (“Assignment”) as of October 26, 2017 and appointed an Assignee.
“Proof of Claim” notices are a required formality of an Assignment process
Under California law, the Assignee is required to send a notice regarding the Assignment, along with a “Proof of Claim.” These can be found via the link at the bottom of this e-mail for your review and possible response. This notice is a required formality within 30 days of the start of an Assignment in California to determine monies owed by the Company. The Assignee is required to provide a mechanism for any party who may potentially have a claim against the Company to file their claim. That mechanism is a “Proof of Claim”.
Why you were sent a Proof of Claim
A Proof of Claim is being sent to all parties who have interacted with Navdy during the last few years to ensure that, if they believe they have a claim, it is accounted for. So if you purchased products or interacted with Navdy within the last few years, you are being sent this notice. It is not confirmation that you necessarily have a claim.
Proof of Claims are exactly what they sound like. If you believe the Company owed you money prior to October 26, 2017 (Assignment date) and has not paid you, you’ll need to fill out the form and return it per the instructions, before April 24, 2018. The language on the Claim Form is formal and legalistic, but it is a necessary part of the process as we work to resolve the situation.
To review the POC Notice, please click here: Navdy POC Notice – eSubmission
Regards,
Navdy (assignment for the benefit of creditors), LLC


Noah Heller, one of the chief architects of Hulu’s virtual reality strategy, has left the video streaming service to set up his own venture firm, 3Rodeo.
Primarily focused on backing Los Angeles-based technology startups, the new fund has already committed capital to three deals, Heller confirmed.
Variety first reported the news of the new fund’s launch.
For Heller, the former vice president of business development for emerging technology and VR at Hulu, the move to venture capital is also a return to his entrepreneurial roots.
Heller joined Hulu when Vhoto, the startup he co-founded in 2012, was acquired by the streaming service in 2015.
A former entrepreneur in residence at Atlas Ventures, Heller has tapped two other former startup executives to help with the new fund — Picasa chief executive Lars Perkins and RYOT Studio co-founder Molly DeWolf Swenson (RYOT was bought by AOL [now Oath], which owns TechCrunch, in 2016).
“It’s called 3Rodeo, as in this isn’t our first or second rodeo,” Heller tells me.
Heller says the ideal investment size will be between $250,000 and $500,000 and that the firm will focus primarily on seed-stage investments.
Already, it’s managed to pick up some solid early-stage portfolio companies. The firm’s first three disclosed investments include Fair, which looks to radically transform the notion of car ownership with a subscription service; Lighter, a food startup where athletes and nutritionists share recipes and menus; and Mira, which is a company developing a low-cost augmented reality headset to compete with the likes of Microsoft’s HoloLens.
“We’ve seen a lot of shit and that experience builds the ability to find an edge and to front run,” says Heller. Mira, for instance, attracted the likes of Sequoia Capital and Greylock — two of the best-known firms in Silicon Valley, but there was still room at the table for the seasoned entrepreneurs from 3Rodeo, Heller said.
“The main requirement is that we have a partner who is familiar with the technology,” said Heller.
Beyond that familiarity is a belief in the vibrancy of Los Angeles’ growing startup ecosystem.
“I’m really long on this market,” Heller said. “Ever since I’ve worked here for Activision I just felt something about it…the size and the geography is intimidating when you first move here, but when you crack it open it’s a good, solid, dense city.”

Featured Image: CSA-Archive/Getty Images


Researchers at Duke University, OSU and Oak Ridge National Laboratory have solved one of the biggest problems with new forms of quantum encryption: quantum key distribution. QKD is the process of distributing keys during a transmission and in a way that will tell both sides of the conversation that someone is eavesdropping. The new system, which uses lasers to transmit multiple bits at once, can be used to connect and secure quantum computers in the future.
“We are now likely to have a functioning quantum computer that might be able to start breaking the existing cryptographic codes in the near future,” said Daniel Gauthier, a professor of physics at The Ohio State University. “We really need to be thinking hard now of different techniques that we could use for trying to secure the internet.”
Their paper is available here.
Most current QKD systems transmit data “between tens to hundreds of kilobytes per second,” a rate not sufficient for most uses, including chat and telephony. The researchers can inject more information into each photon transmitted by adjusting the release time and the phase, thereby encoding two bits instead of just one. This means they can transmit keys quickly and securely and, more importantly, over fast fiber optic cables.
The system uses off-the-shelf parts and, barring the detectors, nothing unavailable to normal telecommunications providers.
“All of this equipment, apart from the single-photon detectors, exist in the telecommunications industry, and with some engineering we could probably fit the entire transmitter and receiver in a box as big as a computer CPU,” said Duke graduate student Nurul Taimur Islam.

Featured Image: Dennis Wise / UW


Waymo continues to press its lead in terms of actual miles driven on roads, which is potentially the most important metric out there when it comes to building successful autonomous driving technology. The Alphabet-owned company that began life as Google’s self-driving car project around a decade ago now has 4 million miles driven autonomously on roads.
That 4 million miles represents the self-driving effort of Waymo’s entire test fleet, covering its original autonomous vehicles all the way up to its current driverless Chrysler Pacifica minivans, which are actually now testing on Arizona public roads, right alongside everyday human drivers, with no safety driver behind the wheel at all.
Waymo puts the milestone in perspective by noting that it would take a human around 300 years to drive that many miles, if they were driving at the average rate of a person in the U.S. today. Plus, the pace of Waymo’s accumulation of distance driven is ramping up: It managed to gain 1 million miles between just May and November of this year — it took the company six years to rack up its first million, by comparison.
This excludes the 2.5 billion miles that Waymo has “driven” virtually in simulation, and its private testing time on its Castle facility track. The number is one that Waymo isn’t likely to stop talking about anytime soon either — miles driven in real-world conditions is a key ingredient in building a comprehensive, virtual artificially intelligent driver that can operate in service of a commercial driverless ride-hailing service, which Waymo has set as the target for its first public driverless product deployment.


It’s been just ten days since Stitch Fix debuted on the stock market, and it has risen almost 54 percent since that time. It’s an astonishing feat for the  fashion styling business, which got off to a rough start, but quickly turned things around as it started to gain momentum by its third day of trading and soared 24 percent today, better known as “Cyber Monday.”
For those who didn’t watch this highly anticipated IPO, Stitch Fix originally priced its offering at $15, which was below its proposed price range of $18 to $20, even after reducing the size of its offering. It then closed the first day at $15.15, below the opening price of $16.90.  The following day it “broke issue,” closing beneath the $15 IPO price. And all of this was well beneath the $22.61 that the company valued its buyback at last year.
Last Tuesday, however, Stitch Fix changed course, and it’s been on a roll ever since. One possibility for the bullish sentiment could be that investors are predicting a big holiday quarter for e-commerce and this business in particular. Amazon shares have also gone up this week.
Gene Munster, formerly an analyst at Piper Jaffray and now a venture capitalist at Loup Ventures, says it’s “probably a couple of large buyers, and the chart starts working, and people feel like they’re missing something.”
He believes that it mostly boils down to simple supply and demand. Stitch Fix did what’s called a “low float,” meaning it made a relatively low number of shares available for sale — which is often the case with newly public companies.
Still, while there’s often volatility in the days following an IPO, statistics show that what happened with Stitch Fix is highly unusual. Munster says that he “can’t remember when it’s happened like this.”
According to Dealogic, U.S.-listed companies that trade flat on the first day, or within 1 percent above or below the IPO price, are up an average of just 1.6 percent one month following their IPO. This compares to 16 percent gains for other newly listed companies in the same timeframe.
The correlation continues longer term, with flat first-day companies trading up 10.8 percent one-year out from the debut. Other U.S.-listed companies average 20 percent gains between the time of their IPO and the following 12-month period.
That’s why there’s so much scrutiny on the first day “pop,” the term used to describe the gains that are expected to happen on day one. Investment bankers advise companies to price IPOs about 15 to 30 percent beneath their predicted first day performance, sometimes characterized as a “discount” to encourage new investors to buy the stock. It’s also meant to prevent the stock from falling in the following weeks or months.
Because of the perceived importance of the “pop,” bankers often exercise what’s called a “greenshoe option,” where they can buy back shares at the IPO price to save face in the first 30 days. It appears that they did this with Stitch Fix on the first day. In this case, bankers were allowed to buy up to 1.2 million shares.
While it’s certainly too soon to declare Stitch Fix a long-term success, its short-term performance defies the odds. In fact, Kathleen Smith, manager of Renaissance Capital, the IPO ETF, calls this turnaround “rare.” She says that, typically, “breaking your IPO price leaves an imprint.”
!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script"),d=o[0],r=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=r+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var a=e.createElement("script");a.async=1,a.id=s,a.src=i,d.parentNode.insertBefore(a,d)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","//e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");
The bull case for Stitch Fix is that it has built a fast-growing fashion business and did this with little capital. The company raised just a reported $42 million from Benchmark Capital, Lightspeed Venture Partners and Baseline Ventures.
In just six years, co-founder and CEO Katrina Lake has built a company with $977.1 million in annual revenue. She’s also the youngest woman to ever take a company public, according to the Nasdaq.
Stitch Fix has already achieved profitability in some years, although it turned to a small loss of $594,000 for 2017. Last year Stitch Fix saw $33.2 million in net income.
Stitch Fix has become a leader in a growing category of try-it-before-you-buy-it fashion businesses. The company’s mix of algorithms and human stylists help determine which outfits should be sent to regular customers.
Of course, there’s always a bearish case for a stock, too. In this case, some IPO investors were burned on Blue Apron’s rough stock market run and may at first have been wary of anything that looked like subscription commerce. (The people who have access to the IPO price are a different group than typical retail stock market investors. It’s an exclusive group of institutional investors and hedge funders, who are expected to hold their positions to keep the stock stable).
We’re also told that some investors were initially concerned that co-founder and CEO Katrina Lake had planned to sell shares at the time of the IPO, a practice that is sometimes construed as a signal that insiders are less than confident about a company’s longer-term performance.
Lake nixed those plans after reducing the size of the IPO, saying she believed the company should be valued at more than $15.
Other concerns included the company’s short “lock-up” period, with 35 percent of insider shares potentially eligible for sale after just 90 days, dependent on stock performance. Companies typically have employees wait until the 180-day mark because the selling can cause the stock to dip. Additionally, CFO Paul Yee has only been with the company for five months, and the company’s COO, Mike Smith, was just promoted in October. We’ve heard that this spooked some of the IPO buyers.
There were also some fears about decelerating growth and high customer acquisition costs.
Either way, it looks like Stitch Fix’s early gains are a “Christmas present,” says Smith, who calls it  “encouraging to see the stock make these recoveries.”
We talked about the Stitch Fix pricing and more on the latest episode of TechCrunch’s “Equity” podcast.

Featured Image: Nasdaq


Plex confirmed it’s rolling out a new feature that will allow cord cutters to skip the commercials in the TV programs recorded using its software, making the company’s lower-cost solution to streaming live TV more compelling. Unlike other commercial-skip options, Plex’s option will remove commercials from recordings automatically.
The company, which originally offered home media software for organizing personal collections, recently began to serve cord cutters by offering a way to watch live TV streamed via a connected antenna, and record those programs.
Its live TV service isn’t technically the same thing as a live TV streaming service, because it’s capturing signals from a digital antenna in your home, not streaming shows over the internet, as with something like Sling TV. But it does offer an easy way to watch free television from over-the-air broadcast networks like ABC, NBC, Fox, CBS, PBS, CW and others.

Now Plex Pass subscribers will be able to skip the ads.
The new feature works by locating the commercials in your recorded media. It then actually removes them before the media is stored in your library. That sounds like it could be even better than TiVo’s commercial skipping option, for example, because you don’t have to press a button to skip the ads — they’re being pulled out for you, proactively.
Plex’s feature may not be a perfect solution, however. As the blog Cord Cutter News noted (which was first to spot the feature’s arrival), the process could take a long time and cause high CPU usage, according to Plex’s own documentation.
Additionally, the feature is only available in beta for Plex Pass subscribers — that is, those who pay for Plex — for the time being.
To get started, you’ll need to make sure your Update Channel is set to “beta” in order to try it out. (You’ll need to be on the latest version of the software — version 1.10.0.4516, the company tells TechCrunch.)
The “Remove Commercial” option will then appear in the Plex Server Settings for Live TV and DVR.
The option works across all platforms except for FreeBSD and devices that are unable to transcode, we’re also told.
Though still fairly new, Plex’s live TV service has been steadily growing. The company added a streaming news service to its software this September, and as of November 2017, has grown to 15 million registered accounts. It has not said how many of those are paying subscribers, but that number has grown from 13 million in June.


Lucid, one of the companies that looks like it could have the best chance to potentially field a true all-electric competitor to Tesla’s Model S, is moving its headquarters to a new facility in Newark, California — one with twice the space of its current base of operations in Menlo Park.
The new headquarters is intended to give Lucid room to grow as it prepares to launch its Lucid Air, the first car from the company. The Lucid Air is a four-door sport sedan with a top speed of more than 235 mph, power output equivalent to 1,000 horsepower and a target launch date of sometime in 2019.
Lucid’s goal with the car is to design something that can stand on its own, instead of just matching up favorably in a comparison chart with the Model S. The company designed the vehicle from the ground up with a shared use model in mind, creating a luxury vehicle that’s also suitable for a collaborative consumption car-sharing future supplemented by autonomous vehicle technology.
The automaker still cites the “next two years” as a “defining period” for the direction and product development, so it sounds like it’s still on track to make the Air happen in the 2019 time frame. It’ll have some heavyweight company, however — that’s the same target Tesla is shooting for with its $200,000 new Roadster.


There are now 15 million people doing Tom Nook’s grunt work.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp marked Nintendo’s most significant mobile title launch since Mario Run and it seems like the game has already delivered some significant downloads, with data from SensorTower suggesting that the title, which lets users chat with animals, catch fish and shake trees for fruit, has already been downloaded 15 million times in its first six days of availability on Android and iOS.
We’ve reached out to Nintendo for confirmation.
The site also noted that this launch doubled the downloads for Fire Emblem’s mobile launch, but was less than half of download totals for Super Mario Run, which totaled 32 million downloads after six days of availability on the App Store and Play Store.
There are some significant differences here, other than the fact that Mario is, of course, Nintendo’s heaviest hitter IP-wise. Super Mario Run was the first mobile game launch from Nintendo and launched exclusively on iOS, and was picked up by Android only months later. SensorTower’s 32 million download figure for Mario Run captures the first six days of sales on both the App Store and Play Store.

Pocket Camp is certainly a different experiment for Nintendo, given the way it approaches monetization through in-game purchases to expedite gameplay (you can buy “leaf-tickets” to craft furniture so you can make friends… a little odd but Animal Crossing fans are familiar with the bizarre). Pocket Camp is currently ranked 72 among all iPhone apps for revenue on the App Store in the U.S.
Nintendo has detailed Super Mario Run went on to have 200 million downloads, though the company noted it was disappointed by the revenue it earned from the title.
For now, the game is a bit light when it comes to multiplayer gameplay, which is something Nintendo appears to have had trouble leveraging its own IP for compared to Niantic’s all-star showing with Pokémon GO.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp is free and available for download on Android and iOS.


Sadly, not all of the Pixel 2’s surprises have been the good sort since Google’s latest flagship launched. Visual Core is one of the more pleasant ones, though — a custom system-on-a-chip (SoC) that’s just been hanging out in the phone not really doing much of anything. 
It seemed that the component simply wasn’t ready for public consumption when the phone hit the market, but the company’s finally prepared to have the chip start earning its keep. 
A new developer preview of Android 8.1 due out today offers up early support for the Pixel 2/Pixel 2 XL chip. The component is expected to further improve the handsets’ cameras, which were already scoring good marks, production issues aside. 
According to the company, Pixel Visual Core has eight image processing unit (IPU) cores and 512 arithmetic logic units. Using machine learning, the company says it’s able to speed things up by 5x, with one-tenth of the energy. Access to the chip, combined with the Android Camera API, means third-party photo apps will be able to take advantage of the system’s speedy HDR+.
Sounds swell, right? Of course, this is still just an early preview, only available to people who sign up for Google’s Beta program. That means, among other things, dealing with potential bugs of an early build. Google wouldn’t give us any more specific information with regards to when the feature will be unlocked for the public, but it’s expected to arrive along with the 8.1 public beta in December.
And even when the feature is live, it will only be available to Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL owners — though don’t be too surprised if it starts rolling out inside new Android phones down the road.


It looks like Congress won’t be ignoring the recent thoroughly sketchy report that Uber failed to disclose — and made efforts to hide — about a data breach that affected 57 million users in 2016. On Monday, Senator Mark Warner issued a set of questions to the ride-sharing company regarding the hack and its failure to inform both regulators and its own users, even as the company allegedly shared information of the breach with potential investors. So far, the FTC and New York’s Attorney General have also confirmed their interest in investigating the incident to TechCrunch.
“Uber’s conduct raises serious questions about the company’s compliance with relevant state and federal regulations,” Warner writes in the letter.
While Warner’s letter addresses some of Uber’s straightforward cybersecurity failings, it also digs into the deeper question of how the company covered up its breach by paying its hackers to destroy the data they stole, including what kind of “assurances” the hackers provided to the company to demonstrate that they did in fact destroy the data in question. Warner also implies that Uber may have run afoul of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act in its unorthodox effort to track down its hackers and force them to sign non-disclosure agreements.
“To the extent Uber had lawfully acquired information enabling it to identify the hackers who had compromised its systems, ensure they would abide by agreements to delete the data and not to disclose the breach, and transfer them $100,000, it conceivably had enough information at hand to assist law enforcement in the apprehension of these criminals,” Warner writes. “Why did Uber choose not to provide relevant forensic information to law enforcement and has this information been provided to law enforcement in the last week?”
As one of the more tech-savvy members of Congress, Warner is recently best known for his role in the Senate Intel Committee’s Russia investigation. As part of that committee’s ongoing efforts, the senator has aggressively questioned Google, Facebook and Twitter on their roles in disseminating false information from Russian state-sponsored actors. With his letter to Uber, the poster child for tech’s disdain for playing by the rules, Warner appears to be deepening his message that tech may no longer be above the regulations that govern more traditional industries.

View this document on Scribd

Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images


SpaceX filed a new amended update to its $351 million funding round from this summer, adding around $100 million to the round in newly disclosed funds and bringing the total to $450 million. The new follow-on funding puts SpaceX’s total post-money valuation at $21.5 billion.
SpaceX spokesperson James Gleeson provided the following statement regarding the amended filing:
“This filing simply discloses that SpaceX received an additional $100 million of investment as part of the last funding round which was disclosed earlier this summer.”


MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory has teamed up with Harvard’s Wyss Institute to create a super strong, affordable artificial muscle that could be used to create soft robots with “superpowers,” including the ability to lift up to 1000 times their weight.
The new soft robotic artificial muscles are inspired by origami, and can be constructed in as little as 10 minutes with materials generally available that can be acquired for less than $1. The technology uses ‘skeletons’ or basic structural scaffolding which are surrounded by a sealed bag that can then change its motion by creating a vacuum within the bag itself.
The internal skeleton component can be made from a variety of materials, and how it’s constructed (and how it folds) will determine the motion, meaning they can be “programmed” simply and manually by changing how they bend when the skin membrane contracts around the internal structure.
Their relative simplicity, as well as flexibility when it comes to the materials you can use to create them, means that these artificial muscles can range in size from a few millimeters to as much as a full meter in length, with relatively few changes in overall performance. The larger the muscle, the more it can lift, and researchers in the project envision eventually building an elephant robot complete with a trunk that works just like a real elephant’s.
This solution elegantly addresses some of the existing challenges of soft robotic, in terms of the flexibility, strength and limitations of other methods of creating simulated muscles for use in soft robotic applications.
Potential applications for this technology in practice could include medical assistance devices, industrial robotics, space exploration, and various wearable exoskeletons, according to the researchers.


Microsoft Office is now available for Google Chromebook users through the Google Play Store – a notable addition, given the two companies offer competing products in terms of office productivity software. Neither Google nor Microsoft are making a formal announcement about the Office applications’ arrival on Chromebooks. But we understand the Office Android apps will only be free to users with specific devices, while others will need to subscribe to Office 365 to take advantage of the apps.
Chrome Unboxed was the first to spot the arrival of Office via Google Play on Chromebooks.
This is the first time Office has been available to Chromebook users through Google Play as a general release, though a report today from ZDNet notes that some Chromebook users had been previously able to get Microsoft Office from the beta version of the Play Store.
The apps’ arrival is not too surprising, though, as Microsoft had said last year it would make full Android versions of Microsoft Office apps available to all compatible devices when the Google Play Store for Chromebooks exited beta.
As you may recall, Google made Chrome OS capable of supporting Android applications last year, but that support had been limited to select models.
Things began to change in 2017, when the company promised that all new 2017 Chromebook launches would support Google Play. It then delivered on that promise when devices like Samsung’s new Chromebook and, more recently, Google’s flagship Pixelbook arrived.
Despite these changes, Microsoft hadn’t offered an updated timeline for publicly bringing its Office Android apps to Chromebooks. That left some to wonder if the apps’ arrival was still forthcoming, while others explored workarounds.
Now the Office Android apps for Chromebook are here, but there are a few caveats we should note.
For starters, just because all newer Chromebooks now support Google Play, the ability to run Android apps on older models is still limited. (A list of which select devices are able to run Google Play is available here).
In addition, users with devices whose screens are 10.1 inches or larger will need an Office 365 subscription to use the Android apps, ZDNet also pointed out.
Of course, Google’s G Suite is still the more likely choice for a number of Chromebook users, but the ability to use Microsoft Office on a Chromebook makes them a potentially more viable option for businesses using Microsoft’s software.
That could be one reason why Microsoft isn’t making a lot of noise about its Office Android apps now working on Chromebooks. The other is Windows 10 S – the streamlined version of Windows 10 the company is positioning as its Chrome OS competitor.
Microsoft hasn’t (yet) provided a comment on the news of the apps’ arrival. Google declined to comment.

Featured Image: Billy H.C. Kwok/Bloomberg/Getty Images


Fans are stoked for a fourth season of Black Mirror, as they should be. The Emmy-award winning series, which shows the dark side of our inevitable future, does an outstanding job of story-telling while encapsulating an entire plot line in a single episode at a time.
But Netflix is keeping its cards close to the vest.
The streaming giant has yet to announce a release date for Season 4, but that hasn’t stopped Netflix from slowly releasing trailers for individual episodes.
Thus far, trailers for two of the six episodes have been released.
The first trailer is for Arkangel, which was directed by Jodie Foster. The story follows a mother (played by Rosemarie DeWitt) who briefly loses track of her daughter, which understandably gives her a bit of a scare. She signs up to be part of the trial for technology called Arkangel, which presumably tracks her daughter. How could this go wrong?

The second trailer is for an episode called Crocodile, which stars Kiran Sonia Sawar, who plays a doctor trying to help someone recall memories of a car crash through the use of some sort of computer.

The first trailer was released on Saturday, the 25th, and the second was released yesterday, November 26th. This leaves us two options: Netflix is either releasing one per day, which means we’ll get a third trailer in a couple of hours, or it’s releasing one per day on the weekends, which means we’ll be waiting for the third trailer until Saturday.
If I had to guess, I’d expect the release date to be announced following the last trailer. But if Black Mirror has taught us anything, it’s that the future doesn’t always turn out the way you expected.
Update: We now have a trailer for the third episode, Black Museum:


Google confirms it has now addressed an issue that caused the YouTube app to drain the battery excessively when running on iOS devices, even when the app was idle in the background. In some cases, users reported the device would even become heated as a result of the problem, but not everyone experienced this issue.
It’s unclear to what extent the issue affected the combined iOS and YouTube user base, as reports varied. One user said that watching a 15-minute clip degraded usage by over 10 percent, noted one report. Another said that battery life on the iPhone X dropped by 20 percent in over 30 minutes, according to a different report. Many others complained more generally about the problem on Twitter and Reddit.
But TechCrunch editor Matthew Panzarino, who reviewed the iPhone X here in-depth, watches a lot of YouTube and didn’t experience the issue himself.
To what extent users were affected is likely related to app version, however. We understand the problem impacted users on YouTube versions 12.42 and 12.43, specifically, regardless of which version of iOS they were running, or what iOS device they ran the YouTube app on. In other words, it wasn’t just a problem for those who had upgraded to the newest iOS 11 mobile operating system, as some reports had said, nor did it only affect those with Apple’s flagship iPhone, the iPhone X.
YouTube addressed users’ complaints on Twitter earlier this month, promising a fix was on the way.
 


Hi Shivam, we're actively working to fix this! Thanks for your patience.
— Team YouTube (@TeamYouTube) November 13, 2017





Hi there! Appreciate the report, this is something we're actively working on. Thanks for your patience.
— Team YouTube (@TeamYouTube) November 12, 2017



That fix actually rolled out in version 12.44 of the app, which launched on November 14th, Google tells us. But the company didn’t confirm the fix publicly until the release notes in version 12.45, which arrived today. (That’s why it’s only now being reported.)
Given that video watching is one of the most popular activities on mobile devices, the issue was a notable problem for those who were affected.
Google would not say what caused the problem in the first place, only that it was now resolved.


As Verizon’s digital media business Oath rolls on with its merging of Yahoo and Aol (which includes TechCrunch), today comes news of a significant departure. David Karp, who founded and led the Tumblr business, is leaving by the end of the year to be replaced by the social media site’s president and COO, Jeff D’Onofrio.
The news was making the rounds on Twitter, and we have confirmed it with the company directly.
“David Karp will depart Oath by the end of the year,” the spokesperson said in an emailed statement. “David founded Tumblr ten years ago as a space for the world’s creators, and we thank him for his commitment and passion driving the growth of the platform to almost 380 million blogs and over 155 billion posts. Going forward, Jeff D’Onofrio, President and COO of Tumblr, will continue to lead the team.”
And here is Karp’s internal memo, where he refers to his own “personal ambitions” as the reason for the departure.

Oath — which is the combined business of Yahoo and Aol — has seen some layoffs since merging, most earlier this month when just under four percent of staff were let go (equivalent to 560 jobs). This departure we understand is not related to those layoffs.
Notably, Karp didn’t have a specific role publicised when the merger of the companies was closed.
Karp’s departure is a big deal, in no small part because he was synonymous with the brand and the business.

Tumblr was a marquee acquisition by Marissa Mayer when she was CEO of Yahoo, made in 2013 for $1.1 billion as it looked for more growth among younger audiences around the platforms that they liked the most.
At the time, and in months and years subsequent to that, it seemed very much like part of the allure of the startup was Karp himself, who had started Tumblr 11 years ago (as of this year) and found unexpected success with the service, which combined a blog-style format with a social network style feed, where you could follow users and skip around from place to place through links. Tumblr grew on virality and was one of the big driving forces behind the rise of GIFs.
However, there were always questions about how Tumblr would monetise its free-form audience. It also had a persistent problem with NSFW or other explicit content (which it seems to not have eradicated but made it easier to obscure it from view).
More recently, it feels like the world has moved on to other platforms to share their quirky ideas, creative musings and more practical thoughts. Tumblr’s own post traffic — one engine of its growth, the other being traffic coming to consume those posts — has been steadily dropping from less than a year after Yahoo acquired it.
I’m not sure Yahoo, or Oath, ever managed to really turn it into a money machine.
We’ll update this post as we learn more.


Featured Image: Gil C/Shutterstock


Private equity giant Thoma Bravo has agreed today to buy Barracuda Networks in a take-private deal that’s valued at $1.6 billion. The company was offered $27.55 per share, about 16% above Friday’s close.
Though above Barracuda’s 52-week high, the price is down from the over $40 per share where the stock was trading in 2015. Barracuda went public in 2013.
Campbell, California-based Barracuda, which competes with Palo Alto Networks and Symantec, provides security for cloud-connected networks and applications. The company touts clients like Boeing, Microsoft and the U.S. Department of Defense. Barracuda says it has over 150,000 customers.
“We believe the proposed transaction offers an opportunity for us to accelerate our growth with our industry-leading security platform that’s purpose-built for highly distributed, diverse cloud and hybrid environments,” said BJ Jenkins, chief executive officer of Barracuda, in a statement. “We will continue Barracuda’s tradition of delivering easy-to-use, full-featured solutions that can be deployed in the way that makes sense for our customers.”
The deal is expected to close by the end of February.
Founded in 2003, Barracuda Networks raised at least $46 million in venture funding prior to its IPO. Sequoia Capital and Francisco Partners were amongst its largest shareholders at the time it went public.
Thoma Bravo is a Chicago and San Franciso-based private equity giant with $17 billion under management. Other portfolio companies include Compuware, McAfee and SailPoint, which recently went public.
Private equity firms began more aggressively buying up software companies last year, their apparent thinking being that they can generate reliable returns from such investments. The biggest take-private deals in the last 18 months include the sale of U.S. data analytics firm Qlik Technologies to Thoma Bravo for about $3 billion in June 2016; Marketo, a marketing software giant that went public in 2013 and was taken private again by Vista Equity Partners last year for $1.79 billion in cash; and the sale of event-management company Cvent last year to Vista Equity Partners in a $1.65 billion deal.
Morgan Stanley advised Barracuda on the deal. Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and UBS worked with Thoma Bravo.
Here’s a look at Barracuda’s stock chart, since it went public about four years ago.
!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script"),d=o[0],r=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=r+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var a=e.createElement("script");a.async=1,a.id=s,a.src=i,d.parentNode.insertBefore(a,d)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","//e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");

Featured Image: Dmitry Miroshnikov/Getty Images


Google announced today it’s expanding the focus of its Google Trends service – the site that lets anyone track what the world’s web searchers are looking for in both real time and non-real time. The service now includes data from more Google products beyond web search, the company says, with the addition of search data from verticals like Google News, Shopping, Images and YouTube.
The expansion makes sense given that Google searches aren’t just about people typing in keywords into a browser to see a set of standard results as a series of links. Even Google’s search results pages have long reflected the wide variety of possible search results – combining things like videos, images and news items alongside web links has been par for the course for a decade or so, since the launch of Universal Search.

As Google explains in a blog post about the changes to Google Trends, the added data will allow users to explore search results in different ways than was previously possible.
For example, a search for the keywords “Taylor Swift” via Google Trends would have let you drill down into search interest around that topic from web searches, but now you can see things like what related videos people are searching for on YouTube.

To use the feature, you type in your keywords into the Google Trends search box as before, then select the appropriate topic from the autocomplete suggestions. (For example, in Taylor Swift’s case, you’d pick the “singer-songwriter” topic at the top of the list.)
From here, you can dig into the trends from web searches, including filtering by geography or time frame. But you can now also choose from other options via a new filter. Here, you can opt to see data from other Google verticals like Image Search, News Search, Google Shopping and YouTube Search.

This gives you more angles into a search trend. To continue the Taylor Swift example, Google shows how a recent The Tonight Show appearance by the singer may lead to spikes in people searching for her performance on the show on YouTube, or images from that show on Google Images. These are shown as related topics and search interest is indicated with a percentage increase next to each climbing item.
As with web searches, you can use the new tool to see where, geographically, interest is strongest for the given topic across Google’s other verticals.
The Google Trends service is often used by researchers and journalists who use the data to report on major events happening around the world, and their impact on culture. It’s also a more in-depth and granular way to parse Google’s data than what’s provided to advertisers through things like AdWords’ insights into search volumes.
The new filtering options are live now on Google Trends’ website.

Featured Image: Robert Scoble/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


Reliam, a company that provides managed services for businesses that want somebody else to manage their public cloud deployments on platforms like AWS and Microsoft Azure, today announced that it has raised a $17 million funding round from Boston’s Great Hill Partners. Reliam says that Great Hill has reserved a full $75 million to fund additional acquisitions and growth.
In the managed services space, Reliam is an old hand with 16 years of experience and a strong focus on AWS. The company is bringing in some fresh blood as well, though. Simon Anderson, the former CEO of DreamHost, is now Reliam’s new CEO and to some degree, it looks like Reliam will be able to offer the kind of managed services that he wanted to bring to DreamHost, where he also played a vital role in backing the OpenStack ecosystem. After leaving DreamHost, Anderson was entrepreneur-in-residence at Great Hill Partners, so it’s easy to guess how Reliam and Great Hill came to work together on this funding round.
“It’s exciting that my collaboration with Great Hill Partners as Entrepreneur-in-Residence has come to fruition with the investment into Reliam,” said Anderson. “Under founder Nate Johnson, Reliam has created a world-class managed services offering and a loyal (and rapidly growing) customer base. Reliam is poised to play a meaningful role in the next phase of cloud adoption with expanded investment in software tools, solutions architects, cloud engineers, and the AWS partner ecosystem. I look forward to my new position at Reliam.”
One of the hardest things in managed services is scaling up a company. With Great Hill putting some money aside to fund acquisitions, chances are that Reliam will go out and bring a number of smaller players into its fold as it looks to compete with the likes of Rackspace and others.
“I’ve carefully built Reliam to be a platform for growth over the last few years, and it is truly gratifying to secure Great Hill Partners’ expertise and investment,” said Reliam founder and president Nate Johnson. “With this funding, we can build out even more capabilities for cloud managed services to support the explosive adoption of public cloud for all sorts of applications – and utilizing the latest cloud services including serverless computing, machine learning, artificial intelligence and the IoT.”
On top of its managed services (currently for AWS and Azure), Reliam also offers traditional hosting, help with migrations, architecture reviews and support for moving to a modern DevOps model. Unsurprisingly, Reliam also offers support for hybrid deployments.

Featured Image: Bill Hinton/Getty Images


HeadSpin, a mobile application testing service, launched today to give developers a one-stop shop for quality assurance and control for mobile application development.
The company’s co-founder and chief executive, Manish Lachwani, knows the mobile appspace better than almost anyone. The former co-founder and chief technology officer of Appurify (which Google bought), Lachwani previously served as the CTO of game developer Zynga and was a principal architect of the Amazon Kindle — developing the first Kindle OS.
At Appurify, Lachwani was one of the first to use hosted software to test automation with real devices, and the company’s subsequent acquisition by Google helped pave the way for in-house testing services that enabled Google developers to move faster and break fewer things, the company said.
““No one was enabling developers with automated real world testing, pre-release. All the attention was on post-launch monitoring and testing. In addition, testing and performance management solutions provided developers no visibility into the complex user experiences around the world,” Lachwani said. “As a result, developers were not getting ahead of performance or user experience issues.”
HeadSpin is already being used by companies like Tinder, DocuSign, Akamai, Telstra, and Dell. The company’s software provides monitoring of application development before and after an application’s release, the company said.
The company monitors code on devices in real networks; it doesn’t use an SDK so there’s no expansion of an application’s code base.
“Unlike other solutions, HeadSpin’s data driven platform is able to proactively uncover ‘hidden insights’ through learning. This helps us fix our app issues before launch and have something reliable and repeatable to test or measure,” said Maria Zhang, CTO at Tinder, in a statement.

Featured Image: audioundwerbung/Getty Images


A Tel Aviv district court has banned two of Uber’s services in the city following a court ruling in a case between the transportation company, the Ministry of Transportation and the Taxi Driver Union, Reuters reports.
The court specifically banned UberDay and UberNight, the company’s private-car services in Tel Aviv. UberTaxi, which enables passengers to request rides via licensed taxi drivers, is not affected.
In the court, lawyers on behalf of The Ministry and Taxi Driver Union brought up concerns around insurance coverage for riders who choose UberDay or UberNight. The ruling comes after the Ministry of Transportation issued an indictment against Uber in May, alleging Uber was operating without a government license.
UberX, the service that enables everyday people to drive their own cars and pick up passengers for a fee, had already been deemed illegal in Tel Aviv. That’s why Uber launched pilot services UberNight and UberDay, which required passengers to pay the private drivers reimbursement fees for expenses, including fuel.
“While we are ending our UberNIGHT and UberDAY pilots, we will continue to offer UberTAXI in Israel,” an Uber spokesperson told TechCrunch. “We are committed to working with the Israeli authorities to explore how technology can improve our cities with safe and affordable transportation alternatives.”

Featured Image: (Photo by Doug Patricio/Brazil Photo Press/LatinContent/Getty Images)/Getty Images


Over the holiday weekend, The New York Times found that one of its Twitter accounts had been locked. @nytimesworld was frozen for a full 24 hours over an innocuous tweet about a story in which Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau apologized for the country’s treatment of indigenous school children. 
Twitter restored the account Sunday afternoon, apologizing to The Times “for any inconvenience this may have caused.” The service blamed the temporary freeze on human error, but didn’t offer much more by way of explanation. “After reviewing the account, it appears that one of our agents made an error,” Twitter told The Times. “We have flagged this issue so that similar mistakes are not made going forward.”


Left out of an apology a decade ago, native people in Newfoundland and Labrador get an apology from Justin Trudeau https://t.co/BRRIUNCVMw
— New York Times World (@nytimesworld) November 25, 2017



It’s true that mistakes do happen, but this is yet another high-profile bumble for Twitter in a year that’s been filled with them. Last month, the service issued a new set of rules, focused on “unwanted sexual advances, non-consensual nudity, hate symbols, violent groups, and tweets that glorifies violence.” 
The stricter set of guidelines came in the wake of bad publicity for temporarily blocking Rose McGowan from the site, after the actress publicly called out Harvey Weinstein. Twitter later reinstated McGowan’s account, citing her “inclusion of a private phone number.”
Earlier this month, the service promised a rethink of its verification process after giving a blue checkmark to white nationalist Jason Kessler. CEO Jack Dorsey took to the platform to note that the company’s verification system “is broken and needs to be reconsidered.”
This latest self-described human error also comes as the paper finds itself a focal point in President’s Trump’s war on so-called “fake news,” repeatedly calling out “the failing New York Times” by name on Twitter. This morning, the President posted a rambling tweet suggesting a “fake news trophy” for America’s network news.
Trump’s own account was temporarily missing from the service for 11 minutes earlier this month, an act Twitter blamed on the actions of a rogue employee.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


As YouTube reels from a series of scandals related to its lack of policing around inappropriate content aimed at children, obscene comments on videos of children, horrifying search suggestions, and more, a new app called Jellies has arrived to offer parents a safer way to let their kids watch videos on mobile devices.
Jellies was built by Ken Yarmosh, founder of Savvy Apps, which has been making mobile apps for years, largely for clients like PBS, NFL, Homesnap, Navient, Levi’s, and others, in addition to passion projects like mobile calendar app Agenda and Today Weather.
As a parent, Yarmosh says he, too, was afflicted by the problems with YouTube that have recently come to light – namely, that allowing an algorithm to dictate what kids should watch will not lead to the safest environment.
“My oldest child is now five-and-a-half, but when he was two and three, he would love watching videos as many kids do,” explains Yarmosh. “YouTube became basically a non-starter because of the ads and him veering into things he shouldn’t very easily. Once YouTube Kids came out, I thought that would be the solution, so I kind of shelved the idea of Jellies,” he says.
But Yarmosh soon realized that YouTube Kids wasn’t working, either. His child was scared by videos for older kids (like one for “Hotel Transylvania 2”); he became obsessed with toy unboxings and egg surprises leading him to beg for toys; and he watched YouTube stars who demonstrated bad behavior, which impacted the way he acted.

These problems led to the creation of Jellies.
Its solution is complete human curation of video content, combined with a focus on videos that allow kids to explore their world, instead of being force-fed videos designed to promote consumerism, distraction, and bad attitudes. That is, the company’s selection of videos won’t include those with “ego-driven online ‘stars,'” the Jellies website proclaims, nor will it feature those where toys are unboxed or videos with inappropriate ads.
In fact, the app doesn’t include any ads at all.
The company instead chooses to generate revenue through a subscription model, charging $4.99/month for ongoing access to its video collection, which includes the addition of new video playlists on a weekly basis.

The video selection process is something the team at Jellies has thought about carefully. The company referenced The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) guidelines and age-range data from San Francisco non-profit Common Sense Media, to help with its curation process. This helped Jellies to figure out not just which videos make sense for which age groups, but also which topics should be included in its kid-friendly app.
For example, Common Sense Media suggests that videos inspiring creativity and imagination are important for children as young as two, while those that demonstrate good interpersonal skills – like sharing or waiting your turn – should be shown to slightly older kids. Videos that teach good values, like those focused on personal responsibility and ethics, can be brought in around age 5, Common Sense Media says. And older kids can be encouraged to develop critical thinking skills.



Jellies-appstore-iphone6_7plus-screen5




Jellies-appstore-iphone6_7plus-screen4




Jellies-appstore-iphone6_7plus-screen2




Jellies-appstore-iphone6_7plus-screen3




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


As any parent with a YouTube-addicted kid can tell you, the videos children watch can also influence their behavior. The kids begin to imitate the smart aleck-y, sassy YouTube personalities they see online, much to parents’ annoyance. Jellies’ position is that the videos children watch should demonstrate better behavior for kids to mimic. That means there are no YouTube stars on Jellies, and its videos are more educational than sensational.
To create the initial round-up of videos featured in Jellies, video viewers watched thousands of hours of YouTube videos to make sure they fit the company’s criteria. There are now over 3,000 handpicked videos across over 100 topics, with 4-5 being added per week, including seasonal topics.
Some technology helps with video selection, but ultimately human curation is the final deciding factor here.
“While we are developing tech to help, notice computers are last in our list. Yes, we get that the industry believes scale is important and values that highly or solely. We believe safety and quality are more important than algorithms that scale as of now,” says Yarmosh.
Beyond the more careful curation of content compared to what’s found on YouTube, Jellies also introduces a number of controls that put parents in charge of what the kids get to watch. Though a “Parents Model” option, moms and dads can select their kids’ favorite topics for inclusion in the app – like trains, planes, baby animals, sea creatures, and the like, for example. They can also add educational content, like ABCs and Shapes, if they choose, and remove other content as they see fit.

Meanwhile, children use the app in a special “Kids Mode” that lets them move between topics and explore videos, giving them a sense of autonomy even though they’re viewing only parent-approved videos.
Though Jellies does feature videos for school agers, not just preschoolers, it may be hard to pull older kids out of YouTube’s world after having been immersed for years.
It may be easier for parents with younger kids to just present them with Jellies, and never make YouTube watching an option.
A number of apps over the years have tried to offer curated versions of YouTube, but Jellies is hitting at a crucial time – when things have gotten so bad on YouTube’s platform that brands are even freezing their advertising due to its unsafe nature for children. That could help the app find an audience.
Jellies is a free download only on the App Store with the subscription available via in-app purchase.


This holiday e-commerce spending season is off to a flying start after Cyber Monday posted the largest-ever single day of online sales in the U.S. According to Adobe, consumers purchased $6.59 billion online during Cyber Monday, with purchases made on smartphones also breaking a record with $2 billion in sales.
The figures come from Adobe, which has been tracking shopping online in the last few days as retailers officially kick-off of holiday shopping season, the most important time of the year for their businesses. These early days are seen by many as a bellwether for how the next six weeks will play out.
Interestingly, Cyber Monday was the only day in the last five — the ‘start’ of the holiday shopping period that kicks off with the Thanksgiving long weekend, including Black Friday —  that sales totals did exceed Adobe’s estimates. In fact, they fell just slightly short of the $6.6 billion it predicted.
Adobe — which extrapolates its figures by analysing 80 percent of online transactions to the 100 largest web retailers in the country — says that November has so far racked up $50 billion in online revenue, up 16.8 percent increase year-on-year.
2017, it projects, will be the first year to break $100 billion in online sales, which is actually a downward revision from Adobe’s previous figure of $107.4 billion. (As a point of comparison, online sales in the US reached $94.4 billion for the holiday season in 2016.)
Cyber Monday has traditionally been an especially strong day for buying online. The reason: it’s a perfect storm of discounts that kicked off on Friday, combined with people heading back to work after the long weekend, and therefore no longer able to go to physical stores as easily throughout the day to pick up deals. (We run through some of the more interesting bargains for tech products here.)
But interestingly, it seems that perhaps the most enthusiastic buyers came earlier in the weekend, leading to a Cyber Monday that broke records but still was perhaps not as powerful as initially expected.
Overall, Adobe said traffic was up 11.9 percent for the day (season average: 5.7 percent). As with other days in the long weekend, mobile has been very much a part of the story: 47.4 percent of visits (39.9 percent smartphones, the rest tablets), and 33.1 percent of revenues.
Notable in the mobile story is that of smartphone-based browsing and purchases. The record-high of $2 billion in sales made via smartphones was a whopping over 40 percent year-on-year increase: an outsized number compared to the rest of the increases across the board that ran between 10 and 20 percent.
As we’ve seen previously iOS — and specifically the iPhone — continues to lead ahead of Android when it comes to monetizing. Average order values on iOS devices was $123. On Android devices it was $110. Conversions, as you would expect, are also very strong on smartphones this year: mobile transactions are closing at a 12 percent higher rate versus a year ago. It seems that one takeaway might be that if you are making the effort to do your browsing on a smartphone, you must really want an item and you are being less casual about it.
“Shopping and buying on smartphones is becoming the new norm and can be attributed to continued optimizations in the retail experience on mobile devices and platforms,” said Mickey Mericle, vice president, Marketing and Customer Insights at Adobe, in a statement. “Consumers are also becoming more savvy and efficient online shoppers. People increasingly know where to find the best deals and what they want to purchase, which results in less price matching behavior typically done on desktops. Millennials were likely another reason for the dramatic growth in mobile, with 75 percent expecting to shop via their smartphone.”
The season has been record-breaking, both in terms of total sales and how shoppers are making a big shift to mobile to browse and buy.
Thanksgiving generated $2.87 billion in sales, Black Friday $5.03 billion, and “Small Business Saturday” (the latest ‘named’ shopping holiday) brought in $2.82 billion (no name yet, and hence no tracking, for Sunday), all significant rises year-on-year.
On those days, mobile devices accounted for between 46 and 54 percent of all site visits, and between 30 and 37 percent of all sales, said Adobe, the biggest proportion yet.
Interestingly, Adobe said that Small Business Saturday saw the biggest smartphone usage yet, which is somewhat surprising as you might assume that small businesses were more likely to focus on physical store sales (when in actual fact, the state of modern retail rental has led many small business to shift to online-only because rents in high-traffic places are just too high for any business but a big business). It saw smartphone traffic of 46.5% and 56.7% for mobile overall.
As you might expect, Amazon is accounting for the most sales of any single platform. According to Hitwise, the e-commerce giant accounted for 45.1 percent and 54.9 percent of all transactions respectively on Thanksgiving and Black Friday. Hitwise puts the actual numbers at 5.6 million and 7.1 million transactions. We’ve asked for Cyber Monday figures when they come in.
At this moment, Shopify is tracking that there are around $280,000 in sales being made every minute (and in the time I’ve been writing, the number has shot up by about $20,000). As a point of comparison, Shopify noted that at its peak, this year’s Black Friday was generating $1 million in sales each minute.
Top items for purchasing, according to Shopify, are Apparel, Accessories and Housewares (in that order). The “cyber” of Cyber Monday is more related to how you shop than what you shop for: Electronics is the sixth-most-popular category for shopping today, between makeup and food.
Adobe, meanwhile, highlights toys, whose prices are down 18.8 percent since October; computers (discounted 14.7 percent) and TVs (21.1 percent discounted).
Adobe notes that best-selling electronics include many of the usual suspects: Google Chromecast, Apple iPads, Samsung Tablets, Apple AirPods, and Sony Playstation VR. Games and consoles include Super Mario Odyssey, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Xbox One X.
We’ll update this post as we get more data. If you see anything interesting related to shopping stats online — for example global features rather than those exclusively covering the US market — send it our way to tips@techcrunch.com and we’ll roll that in, too.

Featured Image: Ruslan Grumble/Shutterstock


ClimaCell, a weather forecasting technology that uses wireless networks to create incredibly granular predictions, has raised $15 million to develop new products and expand beyond the U.S.
The Boston-based company’s service has broad applications across government and business, offering ways to better prepare for the increasing number of severe weather events that are occurring worldwide.
“Nearly $3 trillion of the U.S. economy’s GDP is at risk due to weather every year and ClimaCell’s technology is poised to help verticals like aviation, insurance, financial services, logistics and defense change that,” said Rich Boyle, a general partner at the investment firm Canaan Partners, which led the new financing for ClimaCell alongside the mobility-focused investment firm Fontinalis Partners.
Founded by Ford Motor Company executive chairman Bill Ford, Fontinalis’ participation reveals how ClimaCell’s technology could play a key role in the development of another industry — autonomous driving.
ClimaCell currently sells a web-based interactive weather map, which provides street-level data on weather conditions and an API, which allows any company to access that map and build additional applications on top of it.
“Fontinalis invests in the most impactful companies across mobility,” said Chris Cheever, co-founder and partner at Fontinalis, in a statement. “ClimaCell’s cutting-edge technology enables the mobility industry to harness weather data in entirely new ways, driving operational efficiencies and unlocking new value for businesses in mobility sub-sectors such as aviation, connected cars, logistics, on-demand services, and many others.”
The company was founded by a former Israeli Defense Forces air force pilot, Shimon Elkabetz, who drew on his own weather-related near-death experience to launch the business. On maneuvers in Israel returning from a mission, Elkabetz flew into a foggy cloud-bank that his traffic control tower said should not be there.
He nearly lost control of the plane and definitely lost sight of the runway, Elkabetz recalled in an interview with Forbes.
From that experience, the Harvard Business School graduate began developing ClimaCell’s technology and services. The company uses information on the interference network providers are facing to determine what kind of weather a city is experiencing, according to Elkabetz.
The technology was compelling enough to attract the interest of an investor group led by the Australian, Israeli and U.S.-focused investment firm Square Peg Capital. “ClimaCell is changing the way massive industries assess, manage and make decisions around weather risk,” said Boyle in a statement.

Featured Image: NASA Goddard Space Flight Center/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


This is software to save lives. Facebook’s new “proactive detection” artificial intelligence technology will scan all posts for patterns of suicidal thoughts, and when necessary send mental health resources to the user at risk or their friends, or contact local first-responders. By using AI to flag worrisome posts to human moderators instead of waiting for user reports, Facebook can decrease how long it takes to send help.
Facebook previously tested using AI to detect troubling posts and more prominently surface suicide reporting options to friends in the U.S. Now Facebook is will scour all types of content around the world with this AI, except in the European Union, where General Data Protection Regulation privacy laws on profiling users based on sensitive information complicate the use of this tech.

Facebook also will use AI to prioritize particularly risky or urgent user reports so they’re more quickly addressed by moderators, and tools to instantly surface local language resources and first-responder contact info. It’s also dedicating more moderators to suicide prevention, training them to deal with the cases 24/7, and now has 80 local partners like Save.org, National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and Forefront from which to provide resources to at-risk users and their networks.
“This is about shaving off minutes at every single step of the process, especially in Facebook Live,” says VP of product management Guy Rosen. Over the past month of testing, Facebook has initiated more than 100 “wellness checks” with first-responders visiting affected users. “There have been cases where the first-responder has arrived and the person is still broadcasting.”
The idea of Facebook proactively scanning the content of people’s posts could trigger some dystopian fears about how else the technology could be applied. Facebook didn’t have answers about how it would avoid scanning for political dissent or petty crime, with Rosen merely saying “we have an opportunity to help here so we’re going to invest in that.” There are certainly massive beneficial aspects about the technology, but it’s another space where we have little choice but to hope Facebook doesn’t go too far.
[Update: Facebook’s chief security officer Alex Stamos responded to these concerns with a heartening tweet signaling that Facebook does take seriously responsible use of AI.


The creepy/scary/malicious use of AI will be a risk forever, which is why it's important to set good norms today around weighing data use versus utility and be thoughtful about bias creeping in. Also, Guy Rosen and team are amazing, great opportunity for ML engs to have impact. https://t.co/N9trF5X9iM
— Alex Stamos (@alexstamos) November 27, 2017



Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg praised the product update in a post today, writing that “In the future, AI will be able to understand more of the subtle nuances of language, and will be able to identify different issues beyond suicide as well, including quickly spotting more kinds of bullying and hate.”
Unfortunately, after TechCrunch asked if there was a way for users to opt out, of having their posts a Facebook spokesperson responded that users cannot opt out. They noted that the feature is designed to enhance user safety, and that support resources offered by Facebook can be quickly dismissed if a user doesn’t want to see them.]
Facebook trained the AI by finding patterns in the words and imagery used in posts that have been manually reported for suicide risk in the past. It also looks for comments like “are you OK?” and “Do you need help?”

“We’ve talked to mental health experts, and one of the best ways to help prevent suicide is for people in need to hear from friends or family that care about them,” Rosen says. “This puts Facebook in a really unique position. We can help connect people who are in distress connect to friends and to organizations that can help them.”
How suicide reporting works on Facebook now
Through the combination of AI, human moderators and crowdsourced reports, Facebook could try to prevent tragedies like when a father killed himself on Facebook Live last month. Live broadcasts in particular have the power to wrongly glorify suicide, hence the necessary new precautions, and also to affect a large audience, as everyone sees the content simultaneously unlike recorded Facebook videos that can be flagged and brought down before they’re viewed by many people.
Now, if someone is expressing thoughts of suicide in any type of Facebook post, Facebook’s AI will both proactively detect it and flag it to prevention-trained human moderators, and make reporting options for viewers more accessible.

When a report comes in, Facebook’s tech can highlight the part of the post or video that matches suicide-risk patterns or that’s receiving concerned comments. That avoids moderators having to skim through a whole video themselves. AI prioritizes users reports as more urgent than other types of content-policy violations, like depicting violence or nudity. Facebook says that these accelerated reports get escalated to local authorities twice as fast as unaccelerated reports.
Mark Zuckerberg gets teary-eyed discussing inequality during his Harvard commencement speech in May
Facebook’s tools then bring up local language resources from its partners, including telephone hotlines for suicide prevention and nearby authorities. The moderator can then contact the responders and try to send them to the at-risk user’s location, surface the mental health resources to the at-risk user themselves or send them to friends who can talk to the user. “One of our goals is to ensure that our team can respond worldwide in any language we support,” says Rosen.
Back in February, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg wrote that “There have been terribly tragic events — like suicides, some live streamed — that perhaps could have been prevented if someone had realized what was happening and reported them sooner . . .  Artificial intelligence can help provide a better approach.”
With more than 2 billion users, it’s good to see Facebook stepping up here. Not only has Facebook created a way for users to get in touch with and care for each other. It’s also unfortunately created an unmediated real-time distribution channel in Facebook Live that can appeal to people who want an audience for violence they inflict on themselves or others.
Creating a ubiquitous global communication utility comes with responsibilities beyond those of most tech companies, which Facebook seems to be coming to terms with.

Featured Image: Three Images/Getty Images




A few years ago jailbreaking your iPhone was all the rage. The cat-and-mouse game of hackers versus Apple was great fun and some of the open source products available to jailbreakers – namely the Cydia alternative app store – added amazing features and customizability to the iPhone. Some devs even launched only on jailbroken phones, thumbing their noses at Apple’s walled garden.
Now, however, the jailbreak community is shriveling up and blowing away. Now two major repositories have closed, leaving very little for the active jailbreaker to install and run.
First ModMyi has closed, announcing that it didn’t make economic sense to maintain the repository:
After ModMy, Mobile Nations (ModMy’s parent company) and SaurikIT finished our discussions, there was a clear but sad result to the issue of Cydia and repositories. ModMyi was not plausible to keep going as server costs were insane and the money the repository generated was way below the required amount to keep the repository, not with an economic gain, but to even keep it non-profit.
Second, MaCiti closed last week, the result of a “death spiral” in jailbreak popularity.


Damn.  It’s sad to see a great repo go. Thanks for all you guys did @macciti was indeed a great ride https://t.co/lKogrmYD8D
— Rick Fayad (@Subywrex) November 18, 2017



The latest iOS version has not been jailbroken and, given the insecurities of running a jailbroken phone including unwanted terminal access into the phone itself, it’s not likely many will adopt it. Even the most popular service, JailBreakMe is sitting idle. That said, true fanatics aren’t giving up.
“With all the talking going around about ‘jailbreaking being dead’ or how it’s dying, I’m here to reassure everyone that this subreddit’s discord is still active every day,” wrote Aaronp613 on Reddit. “I know times have been a bit tough for everyone, but that just means we need to focus on what we have at the moment.”


Blockchain investment firms are the ‘new new thing’ in the investment world, not least European companies like kryptonite1 and neufund which are both appearing at TechCrunch Disrupt in Berlin next week. If the internet came along in the 90s to move information assets around, blockchain technologies present potential for a variety of assets, with the potential to disrupt the financial services industry.
Now there’s a new kid on the block-chain (badum-tish!). Cambrian Asset Management claims to have a new take on the space, employing a research-driven, rules-based system to manage a portfolio of digital assets, including Bitcoin, Ethereum and others.
Cambrian’s fund is going to be aimed at family offices, VCs, hedge funds, endowments etc and similarly sophisticated investors which want long-term capital appreciation as the blockchain industry evolves and low exposure to high risk investments, as the company only intends to invest in the 70 or 80 top-tier blockchain startups.
Cambrian was founded by Internet 1.0 tech exec and investor Martin Green, hedge fund portfolio manager Jay Posner and three-time, VC-backed founder and active blockchain investor Adam Jackson.
Cofounder Adam Jackson told me: “Even though Bitcoin and Ethereum have had incredible gains this year, we believe it is still very early days in blockchain as assets move onto the Internet via blockchains.”
He says the company aims to hold a broad portfolio of tokens (BTC, ETH and dozens of others) which must meet certain liquidity requirements. They also plan research to root out frauds and scams. He has some experience already, being an active investor in 30+ tokens over the last year. “We believe in a research-driven, systematic, rules-based methodology to allocate capital in proportion to the relative value of each holding. Investors should maximize long-term returns, no matter which blockchains “win”.”
Jackson believes they will be “very different” from the other 70+ firms in the space, because many are either VC-style funds with early ICO access trying to “pick” winners. “A few of these will do well but history shows most will not successfully pick the winners,” he told me.


YouTube is firefighting another child safety content moderation scandal which has led several major brands to suspend advertising on its platform.
On Friday investigations by the BBC and The Times reported finding obscene comments on videos of children uploaded to YouTube.
Only a small minority of the comments were removed after being flagged to the company via YouTube’s ‘report content’ system. The comments and their associated accounts were only removed after the BBC contacted YouTube via press channels, it said.
While The Times reported finding adverts by major brands being also shown alongside videos depicting children in various states of undress and accompanied by obscene comments.
Brands freezing their YouTube advertising over the issue include Adidas, Deutsche Bank, Mars, Cadburys and Lidl, according to The Guardian.
Responding to the issues being raised a YouTube spokesperson said it’s working on an urgent fix — and told us that ads should not have been running alongside this type of content.
“There shouldn’t be any ads running on this content and we are working urgently to fix this. Over the past year, we have been working to ensure that YouTube is a safe place for brands. While we have made significant changes in product, policy, enforcement and controls, we will continue to improve,” said the spokesperson.
Also today, BuzzFeed reported that a pedophilic autofill search suggestion was appearing on YouTube over the weekend if the phrase “how to have” was typed into the search box.
On this, the YouTube spokesperson added: “Earlier today our teams were alerted to this profoundly disturbing autocomplete result and we worked to quickly remove it as soon as we were made aware. We are investigating this matter to determine what was behind the appearance of this autocompletion.”
Earlier this year scores of brands pulled advertising from YouTube over concerns ads were being displayed alongside offensive and extremist content, including ISIS propaganda and anti-semitic hate speech.
Google responded by beefing up YouTube’s ad policies and enforcement efforts, and by giving advertisers new controls that it said would make it easier for brands to exclude “higher risk content and fine-tune where they want their ads to appear”.
In the summer it also made another change in response to content criticism — announcing it was removing the ability for makers of “hateful” content to monetize via its baked in ad network, pulling ads from being displayed alongside content that “promotes discrimination or disparages or humiliates an individual or group of people”.
At the same time it said it would bar ads from videos that involve family entertainment characters engaging in inappropriate or offensive behavior.
This month further criticism was leveled at the company over the latter issue, after a writer’s Medium post shone a critical spotlight on the scale of the problem. And last week YouTube announced another tightening of the rules around content aimed at children — including saying it would beef up comment moderation on videos aimed at kids, and that videos found to have inappropriate comments about children would have comments turned off altogether.
But it looks like this new tougher stance over offensive comments aimed at kids was not yet being enforced at the time of the media investigations.
The BBC said the problem with YouTube’s comment moderation system failing to remove obscene comments targeting children was brought to its attention by volunteer moderators participating in YouTube’s (unpaid) Trusted Flagger program.
Over a period of “several weeks” it said that five of the 28 obscene comments it had found and reported via YouTube’s ‘flag for review’ system were deleted. However no action was taken against the remaining 23 — until it contacted YouTube as the BBC and provided a full list. At that point it says all of the “predatory accounts” were closed within 24 hours.
It also cited sources with knowledge of YouTube’s content moderation systems who claim associated links can be inadvertently stripped out of content reports submitted by members of the public — meaning YouTube employees who review reports may be unable to determine which specific comments are being flagged.
Although they would still be able to identify the account being associated with the comments.
The BBC also reported criticism directed at YouTube by members of its Trusted Flaggers program, saying they don’t feel adequately supported and arguing the company could be doing much more.
“We don’t have access to the tools, technologies and resources a company like YouTube has or could potentially deploy,” it was told. “So for example any tools we need, we create ourselves.
“There are loads of things YouTube could be doing to reduce this sort of activity, fixing the reporting system to start with. But for example, we can’t prevent predators from creating another account and have no indication when they do so we can take action.”
Google does not disclose exactly how many people it employs to review content — reporting only that “thousands” of people at Google and YouTube are involved in reviewing and taking action on content and comments identified by its systems or flagged by user reports.
These human moderators are also used to train and develop in-house machine learning systems that are also used for content review. But while tech companies have been quick to try to use AI engineering solution to fix content moderation, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg himself has said that context remains a hard problem for AI to solve.
Highly effective automated comment moderation systems simply do not yet exist. And ultimately what’s needed is far more human review to plug the gap. Albeit that would be a massive expense for tech platforms like YouTube and Facebook that are hosting (and monetizing) user generated content at such vast scale.
But with content moderation issues continuing to rise up the political agenda, not to mention causing recurring problems with advertisers, tech giants may find themselves being forced to direct a lot more of their resources towards scrubbing problems lurking in the darker corners of their platforms.

Featured Image: nevodka/iStock Editorial


After spinning out as a standalone security business from Intel earlier this year, McAfee has made its first acquisition. The company has acquired Skyhigh Networks, a specialist in cloud security, the companies announced today.
The financial terms of the deal have not been disclosed, but here are a few data points: Skyhigh had raised over $106 million in funding, according to Crunchbase, most recently a Series D round a year ago, with its investors including Sequoia, Greylock and Salesforce. PitchBook, meanwhile, puts its most recent funding round at $400 million, one marker for the potential value of this deal.
The deal is a sign of the ongoing trend for consolidation in the security industry, where smaller players are coming together under larger businesses to provide more security services under one roof. This makes sense on a couple of levels.
For one, the issue of cybersecurity has become one of the most persistent in the market today, with malicious hacking a nightmare not just for businesses but individuals as more and more of our personal and not-so-personal information becoming digitised and moving to the cloud, putting it in the reach of both criminals and destructive pranksters.
In the case of Skyhigh, McAfee — whose legacy business is in endpoint security — is specifically acquiring the company for that cloud expertise. Skyhigh CEO Rajiv Gupta will head McAfee’s cloud business unit.
The other is the nature of how security services is evolving: we’re seeing a big shift to the use of data analytics and machine learning and other kinds of AI to be able to identify, track and stop cybercrime. Bringing together different services that can use and improve the bigger data pool makes all of those services stronger, potentially.
“Skyhigh Networks had the foresight five years ago to realize that cybersecurity for cloud environments could not be an impediment to, or afterthought of, cloud adoption,” Chris Young, CEO of McAfee, said in a statement. “They pioneered an entirely new product category called cloud access security broker (CASB) that analysts describe as one of the fastest growing areas of information security investments of the last five years – where Skyhigh continues to innovate and lead. Skyhigh’s leadership in cloud security, combined with McAfee’s security portfolio strength, will set the company apart in helping organizations operate freely and securely to reach their full potential.”
It’s not clear if Skyhigh was profitable, and where it stood on its funding, but this will be coupled with more investment into its business by McAfee, which was valued at $4.2 billion at the time of its spinout from Intel in April.
“Becoming part of McAfee is the ideal next step in realizing Skyhigh Networks’ vision of not simply making the cloud secure, but making it the most secure environment for business,” Gupta said in a statement. “McAfee will provide global scale to further accelerate Skyhigh’s growth, with the combined company providing leading technologies and solutions across cloud and endpoint security – categories Skyhigh and McAfee respectively helped create, and the two architectural control points for enterprise security.”
Skyhigh Networks already has produces in the areas of SaaS, PaaS and IaaS and a range of cloud-based security services around policy control both for apps in the cloud and on premises. We should expect to see more of that now being marketed to McAfee’s current roster of customers.
The deal is expected to close pending regulatory approvals and other closing conditions.

Featured Image: Blue Island/Shutterstock


Snapchat is rolling out new filters that can recognize what’s in your photos in order to suggest graphics, like borders or stickers, to accompany your posts. These filters today are capable of recognizing images of objects like pets, sports, and food, as well as specific locations, like beaches or concerts.
The quiet release of the new filters was first spotted by Mashable, which confirmed the rollout with a company spokesperson.
The filters will appear as options in the carousel of filters after the user takes a photo matching one of the above categories, the report also noted.
The addition is an extension of Snapchat’s existing smart filters, including those that are based on where you are at the moment, also known as geofilters. Before, the smart filter carousel had featured smart filters that would show things like time, temperature or speed, but these have now been moved to the creative tool bar, where they’re available as stickers.
Being able to identify what’s in a photo in order to suggest filters could impact Snap’s advertising business in the future, as brands could target users based on the images they’re capturing, instead of just targeting a location or set of interests, as they do now. The company had also filed a patent for an advertising system patent back in 2015, which was published last July, the report said.



Screen Shot 2017-11-27 at 9.49.59 AM




Screen Shot 2017-11-27 at 9.49.51 AM




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Object recognition is a standard for many of today’s photo-sharing apps, including Apple’s Photos app, Google Photos, Amazon’s Prime Photos, and more. But in most cases, it’s been put to use to help surface photos of a certain nature, not to suggest ways to augment those photos with stickers and other decorations, with the more recent exception of Microsoft’s Skype, which added a similar feature called “Photo Effects” earlier this month.
This is not the first time Snapchat has offered image recognition capabilities, though. The company already lets users search across Stories by keywords for the objects in question (like “dogs”), or to search through their Snapchat Memories.
The launch of the filters comes just ahead of a significant redesign of the Snapchat application, which will focus on making the app easier to use for older people, while also sorting the Stories feed algorithmically, instead of in reverse-chronological order as it does now.
Image credits: Mashable

Featured Image: LIONEL BONAVENTURE/Getty Images


Anything you can do, AI can do better. Eventually.
On October 12, NASA put on its own demonstration, pitting an AI-piloted racing drone against world-renowned drone pilot Ken Loo.
Researchers at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, who have spent the last two years working on drone autonomy (which was funded by Google), built three custom drones equipped with cameras for vision and algorithms that would help them fly at high speeds while still avoiding obstacles.
The drones, named Batman, Joker, and Nightwing, used algorithms that were integrated with Google’s Tango technology, which helps AI map out 3D spaces.
These drones could fly up to 80mph in a straight line, but on this particularly cramped course, were only able to hit 40mph.
In a press release, NASA explained the pros and cons of both the autonomous drones and the human pilot. While the AI-powered drones were able to fly more consistently, they were also more cautious and, at times, ran into problems with motion blur at higher speeds. On the other hand, Loo was able to learn the course after a few laps and fly with much more agility than the autonomous drones, but is susceptible to fatigue.
“This is definitely the densest track I’ve ever flown,” Loo said in the release. “One of my faults as a pilot is I get tired easily. When I get mentally fatigued, I start to get lost, even if I’ve flown the course 10 times.”

Long story short, the AI and the human started out with similar lap times, but Loo eventually won out and ended up with a faster average lap time than the AI.
The implications here are big: autonomous drones may eventually be used for surveillance, emergency response, or inventory in warehouses.


European VCs are getting tired, and who can blame them. Europe’s startup industry has boomed in the last ten years, and no-one can say it isn’t a world away from what it was in previous decades. However, European founders are consistently getting it wrong in how they allocate options and equity to staff. This is have a few major effects. It’s stopping startups from attracting the talent they need out of bog corporates and the tech giants. It’s also constraining how the wealth is shared around on exit, and thus how many people go on to become entrepreneurs themselves.
Everyone (by now at least) should be aware of the PayPal Mafia (Elon Musk anyone?) or the Skype Mafia. But why are there not more ‘mafia’s’ being created in Europe, and faster? European VCs won’t say it out loud, but they are fed up. Tired of startups where only one or two people (the founders) become millionaires, slow the scaling of the company, hold it back from attracting talent and tired of Europe not creating more entrepreneurs from these early employees.
It’s time to change that culture, and today two major European VCs have mounted an assault on the issue.
The first is Index ventures.
Realising that Founders were relying on old posts by US VCs like Fred Wilson or perhaps Seedcamp to work out how much in share options they should allocate to employees, Index has gone ahead and done a huge amount of research into the area.
If we want to produce the next wave of global tech giants then giving employees ‘a greater stake in the game’ is Index’s view. In their new report, “Rewarding Talent” they’ve found there is an uneven playing field holding European founders back.
But the real kicker to the report is that Index is also launching OptionPlan, an online web app for entrepreneurs to design their own stock option plans. This is not live yet. It will be released on Thursday, 30 November 2017. I’ve seen the app ahead of launch, and it might just be the most useful tool for founders I’ve seen in a long time!
Martin Mignot, partner at Index Ventures says, “Access to talent is the single most important ingredient for creating transformative tech companies, which is why we are calling on European governments to help level the playing field for our ambitious entrepreneurs by creating the right conditions to support and incentivise employee ownership. Attracting the best talent is the biggest focus for all entrepreneurs and should be the singular focus of all governments who seek to support innovation, entrepreneurialism and job growth.”
Why should they do this? Well, the competition from big companies is just too strong now.
Index Ventures founding partner Neil Rimer says: “Europe is on the cusp of greatness, but risks coming short of building companies the size of Amazon, Facebook and Google if it cannot compete for the talent it needs.”
The report’s underlying research is extensive. It has analysis of over 4,000 individual option grants from more than 200 startups across Europe and the US; cap table analysis by funding round across 73 companies in the Index European portfolio; a Survey of ESOP practices completed by executives from 53 European startups and former startups, representing over 11,000 employees; in-depth interviews with founders, CFOs and executives of 27 Index-backed European companies from seed stage to post-IPO; and a review of regulatory and tax policy in the US and other key European markets, supported by Taylor Wessing and Wilson Sonsini.
The report found that:

On average, employees own 20% of late-stage start-ups in the US, versus 10% in Europe.

Employee equity is less consistently on offer to employees in Europe, with two-thirds reserved for executive level employees in contrast to the US where the reverse is true.


There is also disparity in Europe when it comes to how deeply technical the business is, with those in AI or enterprise software significantly more likely to receive such benefits than those in e-commerce, for example.


In other words, European employees are not being encouraged by the low options they are receiving, European founders are not offering is as much as their US counterparts, and less technical employees not being treated as equally, hampering the growth of the eco-system.
Index says there are three main factors preventing greater adoption of employee ownership as a means to secure talent in Europe. Firstly, governments must create the right conditions to encourage broader employee ownership.
Index found that European employees are often being penalised for their stock options in the startup they work at. In much of Europe, employees must pay a high strike price and are heavily taxed on exercise as well as sale, with those leaving often receiving nothing. The US is totally different and stock options are supported and encouraged by more favourable tax policies.
National tax policies across Europe are also working against giving employees options. Index Ventures’ cross market analysis shows that the UK tops the rankings for creating the best conditions in Europe for start-ups, scoring higher even than the US. France and Ireland also show well. However, in Germany and Spain the figures are much worse, and these countries will need to work on this area if they are to encourage the development of startups.
The financial benefits of employee ownership are also being lost in the conversation. Index found that European workers still do not expect stock options much of the time. Lastly, Index found that European entrepreneurs have to date suffered from a lack of information on the level of ownership incentives offered by their counterparts in Europe and the US.
Mignot also told me their research found that the EMI options scheme is more forward thinking in the UK than the US. “If ever a European country emulated the UK’s scheme then whole of Europe would be world class and would trigger talent moving from traditional corporates to startups,” he said
“There are a crop of companies coming through who will be big, like Deliveroo, but in order to get the next generation, of startups, what’s holding us back is our ability to attract and retain talent. Looking long term, staff with options will spread through the ecosystem. Criteo made 50+ millionaires, and all are now funding other startups or starting them. This is critical.”
Secondly, today Balderton Capital has released its own report on Employee Equity which outlines why startups should give equity to employees; how equity compensation works and why it should be used; how to engineer a fair and efficient plan; and how to navigate the many complex issues that implementation in different European companies.
This huge 59 page long deck has practical spreadsheets that address many dimensions of such a program such as how to evaluate and present the value of a given stock grant; how to model the vesting of a grant; how to establish a grant refresh program; and how to present the equity program and gain approvals from the company board of directors.
As you can tell, investors are worried about this. They are worried that corporates and huge tech giants like Google and Facebook will use huge salaries to lure the talent away from startups where they might get equity. But for startups to work, that equity has to be attractive. Founders need to understand how to allocate it well, and governments need to start legislating to encourage it if European startups are to flourish.
If things go well, then Europe will get the same flywheel effect you see in Silicon Valley. You get more advocates for the tech ecosystem, then you can optimise for long-term value and encourage policy makers to incentivise startups.
Plus, of course it also means you can encourage a corporate employee to find out how much they might get on the upside by joining a startup…

Featured Image: Hiroshi Watanabe/Getty Images


Image-hosting site turned meme social network, Imgur, is the latest tech service to ‘fess up to a security breach. In a blog post Friday it revealed that hackers had compromised its systems in 2014, with ~1.7M emails and passwords affected.
No additional information was apparently compromised in the breach.
“Imgur has never asked for real names, addresses, phone numbers, or other personally-identifying information (“PII”), so the information that was compromised did NOT include such PII,” it emphasizes.
While the hack occurred three years ago, Imgur says it only came to light on November 23 — when it was contacted by security researcher, Troy Hunt, who had been sent the stolen data as a consequence of running the haveibeenpwned data breach notification service.
Hunt has since tweeted to confirm that the majority of the stolen credentials were already in his database (although he appears to have tweeted the wrong date for the Imgur hack):


New breach: imgur was hacked in 2013. 4 years later, 1.7M records with email addresses and cracked passwords surfaced. 60% were already in @haveibeenpwned. Read more: https://t.co/uTfmTUpXDJ
— Have I been pwned? (@haveibeenpwned) November 25, 2017



Imgur hasn’t confirmed how the breach occurred as yet — saying it’s still investigating. Although it does note that in 2014 it was using an older hashing algorithm (SHA-256) for encrypting passwords in its database, and suggests the hackers could thus have decrypted the stolen credentials using a brute force attack.
“We updated our algorithm to the new bcrypt algorithm last year,” it adds.
Sad to say, data breach disclosures are an all too regular occurrence these days.
And a breach affecting 1.7M users appears almost modest in comparison beside some of the recently disclosed mega-hacks.
Principally, Yahoo’s massive hacks in 2013 and 2014 — which apparently affected all 3 billion of its accounts.
But also just last week Uber disclosed a huge hack that compromised the personal data of 57M Uber users and drivers.
What is notable here is the apparent speed of disclosure. So while Imgur says it only became aware of the hack on November 23, by the morning of November 24 it had begun notifying impacted users (via their registered email address), and forcing password resets.
It also made a public disclosure of the breach via its blog post on November 24, at 4PM PST.
Compare that with Uber — which kept quiet about a massive October 2016 breach for the best part of a year, having learned that hackers stole the user data in November 2016.
In Uber’s case, the compromised information also included PII (names, addresses, phone numbers and around 600,000 US drivers’ licenses). So the associated risks to users — such as ID theft — is greater.
Another thing to note is that new rules incoming in the European Union will set a data breach disclosure standard of 72 hours from May next year. And under the GDPR data controllers will also face far stiffer penalties for failing to comply.
So, for example, under Europe’s incoming rules the recent breach disclosed by Equifax — affecting ~143M consumers, including some in Europe, and including names, addresses, dates of birth, Social Security numbers, drivers’ licenses and (for a subset) credit card info — could have resulted in a fine as high as $68.5M, based off of projections for the company’s full year revenue for 2017.
Whereas companies that disclose breaches promptly — as Imgur appears to have done here — will be at far lower risk of being slapped with large fines under GDPR, if they are also handling European citizens’ data.
So perhaps, as the financial risks of storing and handling user data step up, we’ll start to see more data breaches disclosed promptly. While, over time, EU lawmakers’ hope is there will be fewer major breaches occurring as security and data protection gets given far more executive priority.


Video is what consumers are paying attention to these days, and Amazon’s AWS is hoping to capitalise on that with one of its latest launches. Doubling down on its video services for media companies, app publishers — and actually any other organization that has considered launching a video service — Amazon today announced a new suite of five video processing tools as part of AWS Media Services, cloud-based tools to help build, service and monetise video streams.
The new launch puts it into competition to some extent with the likes of Google’s YouTube and its efforts to work with media companies and other creators to build and host live streams and ad-based videos. Interesting timing, given all the negative press YouTube has had over the kind of content that it’s been hosting over the years.
The company also appears to refer to the product AWS Elemental Media Services. The “Elemental” in the name comes from AWS’s video business, formed largely on the back of its acquisition of Elemental Technologies for around $500 million in 2015, and supplemented with additional IP and talent by way of other purchases, including ThinkBox Software earlier this year.
The idea of AWS’s Media Services — announced on the eve of its big re:Invent conference, along with a big mixed reality push in the form of a new platform called Sumerian — is fairly disruptive for the video industry.
Up to now, building services like targeted advertising around a video stream required integrating with third-party providers. Similarly, to account for boosts in traffic, providers had to build in costly equipment to handle the capacity. Amazon’s aim is to take that out of the hands of the video providers, letting them essentially offload it to AWS, and its cloud — a vastly reducing the pricing for using such tools, as well as making it easier to use them full-stop.
“For the better part of six decades, professional-grade video workflows were limited to a few major industry players who could afford to build and maintain customized infrastructure that would be updated only once or twice each decade,” said Alex Dunlap, GM at AWS Elemental, in a statement. “These companies spent a great deal of time, money, and focus operating infrastructure with resources that could have been better spent creating great content and viewer experiences. We built AWS Elemental Media Services to let customers focus on delivering top-quality video reliably to any device, everywhere, without the undifferentiated heavy lifting of managing infrastructure. This not only helps traditional video providers innovate faster, but it also opens up new opportunities for startups, government agencies, schools, and multinational enterprises that, before today, had limited access to premium-quality video technology.”
Video, however, is a medium that any publisher working in digital cannot ignore, either, if it’s hoping to find as many ways as possible to connect with people. According to figures from Zenith, online video viewing globally will rise 20% in 2017, to an 47.4 minutes a day viewing videos. Mobile video in particular is fuelling that boost, with the most growth compared to desktop.
Amazon says that companies using the new tools include BT, Pac-12 Networks, Amazon Prime Video, Fox Sports Australia, fuboTV, Nine, Spuul, M2A Media, Cinépolis, and IMAGICA.
Notably, Netflix — a huge customer for Amazon on the video hosting front — is not mentioned.
The five services cover different aspects of creating, streaming and making money off of videos:
AWS Elemental MediaConvert will let publishers format and compress video-on-demand content “for delivery to virtually any playback device, with high-quality video transcoding and broadcast-level features.”
AWS Elemental MediaLive will let publishers encode broadcast-grade live video for TV or connected devices.
AWS Elemental MediaPackage will help producers prepare “and protect” live video streams with extra tools such as immediate playback.
AWS Elemental MediaStore is a storage service for video (how could an AWS service not have this, I ask?)
AWS Elemental MediaTailor lets you monetize the videos with targeted (personalised) advertising. It’s not clear where the advertising tech is coming from here (we’re still looking) but it’s interesting to me to see Amazon moving deeper into this area, as it upends and directly competes with Google’s YouTube and its services for video creators.
The service is launching today after running in a closed preview for a while now with the above customers. Those using it can also integrate it with other AWS services, Amazon said: “AWS Direct Connect and AWS Snowball for content ingestion; Amazon CloudFront for content delivery; Amazon CloudWatch for monitoring; and Amazon Rekognition for artificial intelligence.” Let the Hunger Games begin.

Featured Image: Thomas Cloer/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE


The Nordic Web, a research and analysis company which specialises in covering data on tech companies emerging out of the Nordic region, has started a new Angel fund. The fund will invest across Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
Founder Neil Murray says ‘The Nordic Web Angel Fund’ plans to invest in 10-15 Nordic startups over the next 12 months. He claims this would make it one of the most active funds in the region.
LPs backing the venture include some high profile names from the region such as Thomas Madsen-Mygdal (TwentyThree), Linda Liakus (Hello Ruby) and Johan Brand (Kahoot!) as well as VC investors from around Europe, such as Martin Mignot (Index Ventures), Christoph Janz (Point Nine Capital) and Philipp Moehring and Andy Chung (both of AngelList Europe).
Murray says he has secured over 50 LPs backers with mix of location, gender and experience. A full list is here.
In a statement he said: “By leveraging the expertise and knowledge of our investors in the fund, we can offer unrivalled support in helping early-stage Nordic startups, with access to a whole community behind them. Due to the explosion of capital and interest in the Nordics in the last five years, we are now beginning to see early entrepreneurs leave companies and start their own. However, they typically remain under-the-radar due to their personal profiles not being known by institutional investors. The fund discovers and backs these companies.”
Mignot said: “I’ve seen the vital role that The Family has had in supporting and accelerating the Paris ecosystem and I believe this can have a similar impact in the Nordics.”
Murray told TechCrunch that Philipp Moehring from AngelList helped raise the fund and take care of all the back-end and legals. “I believe I am one of the first in Europe to take advantage of this,” he added.


The UK government has announced it will introduce draft legislation in the spring aimed at preventing unsafe or criminal use of drones.
Last year it ran a public consultation that recommended addressing safety, security and privacy challenges around drone technology.
Among the measures planned for the forthcoming Drone Bill plus secondary legislation amendments the government has planned are new powers for police to order an operator to ground a drone if it’s deemed necessary.
Police will also be able to seize drone parts to prove it has been used to commit a criminal offense, the government said yesterday.
It had already announced its intention to set out a registration plan for drones weighing 250 grams or more. Yesterday it reiterated that the incoming legislative changes will mean drone owners are required to register their devices.
They will also have to sit safety awareness tests, as well as being required to use certain apps — “so they can access the information needed to make sure any planned flight can be made safely and legally”.
In a statement, aviation minister Baroness Sugg said: “Drones have great potential and we want to do everything possible to harness the benefits of this technology as it develops. But if we are to realize the full potential of this incredibly exciting technology, we have to take steps to stop illegal use of these devices and address safety and privacy concerns.”
“Do not take this lightly — if you use a drone to invade people’s privacy or engage in disruptive behaviour, you could face serious criminal charges,” added assistant chief constable Serena Kennedy, the National Police Chiefs’ Council Lead for Criminal Misuse of Drones, in another supporting statement.
While the UK currently has a Drone Code intended to encourage drone operators to fly safely and responsibly, there have still been multiple reports of near misses between drones and aircraft — and the government clearly feels the code needs to be backed up by new laws and powers.
Yesterday it said it is considering whether to ban drones from flying near airports or above 400 feet — noting these measures could form part of the new regulations.
Safety research it published this summer found that drones weighing 400 grams or more can damage the windscreens of helicopters.
It added that it is also continuing to work “closely” with drone manufacturers to use geofencing technology to prevent drones from entering restricted zones — such as military sites.
Another problematic use of drone tech that has emerged is for smuggling contraband over prison walls. Although it’s not yet clear whether the government wants prisons to be included in the ‘no fly zones’ manufacturers bake into devices.
“These new laws strike a balance, to allow the vast majority of drone users to continue flying safely and responsibly, while also paving the way for drone technology to revolutionise businesses and public services,” added Sugg.
Also commenting in a statement, Tim Johnson, policy director at the Civil Aviation Authority, said: “Drones can bring economic and workplace safety benefits but to achieve those we need everyone flying a drone now to do so safely. We welcome plans to increase drone operator training, safety awareness and the creation of no-fly zones.”
At the same time as announcing incoming drone regulations draft, the government revealed it’s funding a drone innovation project which launches today — inviting UK cities to get involved in R&D focused on using the tech to transform critical services, such as emergency health services and organ transport, essential infrastructure assessment and repair, and parcel delivery and logistics.
Up to five cities will be able to gain government support for carrying out some drone R&D as part of what it’s dubbed The Flying High Challenge.
The project is being run by Nesta in partnership with the Innovate UK government agency.


We’d heard months ago that Amazon would be using its Re:Invent AWS event to roll out some a new service related to building in mixed reality — augmented reality and virtual reality. And on the eve of the conference kicking off, it’s done just that. Today the company announced Amazon Sumerian, a new platform for developers to build and host VR, AR and 3D apps quickly and with minimal coding, for smartphones and tablets, head-based displays, digital signage and web browsers. As with many other AWS services, Sumerian is “free” to use: you pay only for the storage for what you create.
The service — announced at AWS’s “Midnight Madness” pre-show event — is available in preview from today. Initially, the service is browser-based and works in any browser that supports WebGL or WebVR graphics rendering, such as Daydream, HTC Vive, Oculus Rift, and iOS mobile devices.
Amazon says different features in Sumerian in preview include the ability to design in AR, VR and 3D immersive environments using libraries of pre-built objects; the ability to create animated characters (using its Lex speech recognition and Polly for natural language understanding); and then shipping the apps to various hardware.
It’s also integrating with third-party developers for certain features — these include Mapbox for location services.
AWS naming the service Sumerian — the language spoken by Sumer people of Mesopotamia — is an interesting choice and fits with Amazon’s concept behind the service.
Sumerian (the original language) was one of the world’s first written tongues and is considered to be the basis of many languages that followed. Amazon’s thinking behind Sumerian (the AWS product) is that it is trying to bring AR, VR and 3D into the mainstream by building set of tools to make it much easier to use.
“Customers across industries see the potential of VR and AR technologies for a wide range of uses, from educating and training employees to creating new customer experiences,” said Marco Argenti, Vice President, Technology, AWS, in a statement. “But, customers are daunted and overwhelmed by the up-front investment in specialized skills and tools required to even get started building a VR or AR application. With Amazon Sumerian, it is now possible for any developer to create a realistic, interactive VR or AR application in a few hours.”
It does this by way of providing many pre-configured building blocks to make creating apps quickly and with less coding to cover the basics like inanimate objects and the basics of a human form.



Sumerian-05-ImportAsset-1




Sumerian-07-MannequinAsset




Sumerian-05-ImportAsset-2




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Amazon’s been making a number of acquisitions to help build out its position in AR and VR and the new wave of computing. They have included the body-scanning startup Body Labs and GameSparks, a platform for building games. I’d argue that you can see some of that tech and general approach coming to the fore here as well.
In fact, it’s often not obvious how Amazon will redeploy talent and technology in its products down the line. One of the people leading the company’s mixed reality efforts in AWS is Kyle Roche, who actually came to Amazon when it acquired his IoT startup 2lemetry. Roche also had a background in augmented reality. He’s now the GM of Sumerian.
In keeping with the idea of trying to kick-start more AR and VR development, Amazon is also creating a series of pointers to steer people to different kinds of apps — critical, given that one of the big criticisms of mixed reality services is that the applications for the technology have yet to prove themselves as “must-have”.
Amazon is focusing here on very practical end-points: “training simulations, virtual concierge services, enhanced online shopping experiences, virtual house or land tours” are among those it names could be improved with the use of virtual environments populated with animation and 3D and more natural interactions with users.
The service also brings together a lot of what AWS has been doing in other areas by trying to simplify otherwise-complex new computing applications. Last week, the company announced a new consultancy to help people build more AI-based services, and last month, it announced Gluon, a simplified machine-learning model builder.
The bigger picture here is that the new wave of computing and technology has a lot of coding and other time-consuming processes behind it, and Amazon wants to be the one to modernise and simplify that — thereby becoming the default platform for creating applications on that new tech.
(This is not unlike Apple’s push in its early days to demystify computers by making them super easy to use for the average consumer, at a time when the pre-existing basic home computer still required you to wear a tinfoil hat to use.)


TechCrunch December Include Office Hours will be hosted in Berlin, Germany on December 1st. We’re partnering with Cavalry Ventures. From 2-3pm, founding and managing partner Rouven Dresselhaus and managing partner Stefan Walter will be giving key feedback and valuable guidance for underserved and underrepresented founders. Apply now!
In 2014, TechCrunch launched the Include program to leverage TechCrunch’s unique network and resources to create access and opportunity for underserved and underrepresented founders.
TechCrunch Include Office Hours are a part of this effort. TechCrunch partners with a VC in New York or San Francisco to host these meetings. During Disrupt, we host Office Hours in the city of the event — this month, it’s Berlin! These private 20-minute sessions are valuable opportunities for entrepreneurs to gain insights and advice from seasoned investors, as those from Cavalry Ventures. Founders can apply here.
Underserved and underrepresented founders include (but are not limited to): female founders, refugees, veterans, minority, LGBTQ, Black, Latino/a, Asian, people with disabilities and Native peoples.
Let’s meet Cavalry Ventures and the partners
Based in Berlin, Cavalry Ventures invests in early-stage, disruptive companies. Cavalry is founded and led by a team with deep founder and investment experience themselves. Cavalry is a “hands-on, operations driven and laser-focused on enabling early stage entrepreneurs who have the ambition to transform important markets to build the next big thing.”
Rouven Dresselhaus

Rouven Dresselhaus is founding and managing partner of Cavalry Ventures and contributes his expertise in strategic decision making, e.g. investment strategies, portfolio management as well as fundraising support to back the growth of portfolio companies. At Cavalry, Rouven is responsible for the portfolio companies McMakler and FreightHub.
Prior to Cavalry, Rouven invested privately in more than 35 startups worldwide that have created over $1.5 billion in shareholder value. Among them are Tradeshift (world’s largest network for businesses) and Simplesurance (leading online provider for product insurances).
Rouven started his career at KPMG as a consultant in the Financial Risk Management practice. He then supported Morten Sondergaard in his investment activities and joined the early/mid-stage VC fund Capnamic Ventures.
Aside from being experienced in the digital economy, Rouven possesses strong ties to the old economy, as he grew up closely connected to his family’s business, Dresselhaus GmbH & Co KG, one of the largest providers of screws and fastening parts in Europe. Other than taking the Founders Pledge, he is an avid supporter of and donor for YUNUS Social Business to generate sustainable social impact.
Stefan Walter

Stefan Walter is managing partner at Cavalry Ventures and supports founders in areas such as funding/fundraising strategy, financial modeling and investor communications.
Stefan holds degrees in finance/tax law and business administration. Prior to Cavalry he co-founded Montredo amongst others, an e-commerce venture with focus on new luxury watches, before moving to the other side of the table and joining Rheingau Founders, a Berlin-based company builder and early-stage investor.
Stefan is passionate about all sorts of ball games (basketball, tennis and soccer in particular), and is actively involved in the Berlin startup scene, where he serves as mentor at Techstars and METRO Accelerator.


At Disrupt Berlin, we have a special treat for attendees who want to engage with our main stage speakers and other experts on the big topics in the tech and startup world. We call these Off the Record sessions (OTRs). Although technically not ‘off the record,’ they are a great opportunity to ask our speakers questions, as well as listen to the experts and a moderator talk in more depth about the topics they discussed with TechCrunch editors on the main stage.
The format is a 45-minute roundtable discussion including questions from the audience. Any regular Disrupt attendee may participate. The sessions take place on-site at the venue in an area we have set aside for OTRs. The discussion is followed by a networking reception. The OTRs won’t be recorded, and TechCrunch doesn’t normally cover them, so the only way to be a part of what is sure to be a series of great discussions is to register for Disrupt Berlin.
Right, so which categories are those? We’re almost done programming the OTRs, and here is the line-up so far. Please note that most of these OTRs correspond to highlighted sections of our Startup Alley.
Robotics – Monday Dec. 4 at 1:15 – 2:30 p.m.
Rob Coneybeer, Shasta Ventures
Alex Zosel, Volocopter
James Harrison, Sky-Futures
Cryptocurrencies – Monday Dec. 4 at 4:00 – 5:15 p.m.
Kavita Gupta, ConsenSys Ventures
Mona El Isa, Melonport
Tim Zagar, Iconomi
Moshe Hogeg, Sirin Labs (Sponsor)
Blockchain – Tuesday Dec. 5 at 10:00 – 11:15 a.m.
Gavin Wood, Parity Technologies / Web3 Foundation
Jutta Steiner, Parity Technologies
Artificial Intelligence – Tuesday Dec. 5 at 1:00 – 2:15 p.m.
William Tunstall-Pedoe, Ada Health
Suranga Chandratillake. Balderton Capital
Fintech – Tuesday Dec. 5 at 11:30 a.m. – 12:45 p.m.
Valentin Stalf, N26
Christian Nagel, Earlybird Venture Capital
Health and Bio Tech – Tuesday Dec. 5 at 2:30 – 3:45 p.m.
Ida Tin, Clue
Claire Novorol, Ada Health
Xavier Duportet, Eligo Bioscience


Whether you celebrate a specific holiday or just love to celebrate giving gifts, you’re gonna love our Cyber Monday special. Today only, when you buy a general admission ticket to Disrupt Berlin, you can head on over to our curated TechCrunch Gift Guide and pick up something nice for someone you love. Or for yourself — we don’t judge.
And we’re not talking some $10 office holiday party gimcrack, either (not that there’s anything wrong with that). No, we’re talking anything you want up to $200 USD (not including tax or shipping).
Who knows, you might find some cool gear or gadget that you can take with you to Disrupt Berlin on December 4-5. Oh, that’s right… the gift may be a cool bonus, but the real present is treating yourself to the hottest tech conference in Europe. Aren’t you the clever shopper?
This Cyber Monday deal is good for today December 27 only (until midnight, local Berlin time) and is not applicable to Startup Alley Exhibitor Packages, student or government tickets, so get a move on. Buy your ticket and claim your $200 bonus gift right now.
*You will be contacted after December 5 to proceed with fulfillment of your Gift Guide prize.

Featured Image: pley.com


Simon Lee, founder and CEO of Flitto
Artificial intelligence-powered translation is becoming an increasingly crowded category, with Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook all working on their own services. But tech still isn’t a match for professional human translations and machine-generated results are often hit-and-miss. One online translation service, Flitto, is now focused on providing other companies with the language data they need to train their machine translation programs.
Headquartered in Seoul, Flitto launched in 2012 as a translation crowdsourcing platform. It still provides translation services, ranging from a mobile app to professional translators, for about 7.5 million users. About 80% of its revenue, however, now comes from the sale of language data, called “corpus,” to customers such as Baidu, Microsoft, Tencent, NTT DoCoMo and the South Korean government’s Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute.
When Flitto launched five years ago, its main competition was Google Translate, says founder and chief executive officer Simon Lee. Google Translate delivered mixed results, but professional translation services were inaccessible for most people. Flitto, whose backers include Japanese game developer Colopl, was created to combine the two. It works with 1.2 million human translators who are paid if their translation is picked by the requestor.
Then in 2016, Google introduced its neural machine translation system, which improved the accuracy of Google Translate. Now many big tech companies, including Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook and Apple, are focused on developing their own artificial intelligence translation tools.
Even though results are getting better, they are still imperfect. AI-based translation systems need a ton of data to train, which is where Flitto comes in.
“There are different ways to translate something that gives different meanings in different situations, so there needs to be a huge set of data and a human checking all of that data to see if it is right or wrong,” says Lee.
He adds “it’s difficult to build up a corpus and IT companies don’t like building corpus because they focus on technology.”
Flitto’s app provides a machine translation first, then crowdsourced translations if requested.
Flitto’s corpus includes sets of human-translated sentences from its crowdsourcing service, which is used for things like slang, pop culture references or dialects that might stymie a machine translation service. Over the last five years, Lee says Flitto has accumulated more than 100 million sets of translated language data.
Corpus providers include the Oxford University Press, which gives researchers access to the Oxford English Corpus, and companies like Microsoft and Google that built corpus to train their systems. But there is still constant demand for new corpus because they take a lot of resources to create. While programs like Deepmind’s AlphaGo were able to train themselves with almost no human help, machine translation still needs a human touch.
“In other fields, machines can create their own data, but in language and translation it’s impossible for machines to create translation data by themselves,” says Lee. “So there always have to be human translators who go through all that data.”


Matt Heiman
Contributor


Matt Heiman is an investor at Greylock Partners.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Why ‘TAM’ doesn’t matter to me
Innovation under the hood will rev the engines of a fintech revolution



Nearly three years ago, Saar Gur and I wrote about how early-stage consumer product companies were overlooked by venture capitalists, but had the potential to create breakout success. At the time, VCs largely shrugged off the category by pointing to the lack of sizable outcomes in the consumer vertical and the difficulty of predicting which brands would be successful.
Since that post, Unilever bought Dollar Shave Club for $1 billion, Walmart bought Bonobos for $310 million, Kellogg bought RXBar for $600 million, and Purple Mattress effectively went public for $1 billion. None of these companies had yet celebrated their tenth anniversaries. Others including Warby Parker, Daniel Wellington, Glossier, and Allbirds remain independent but are reportedly doing $100’s of millions in sales after just a few years in the market.
These startups are taking advantage of not only the changing habits of millennial consumers, but also the ability to reach those consumers and build brand awareness through under-exploited digital marketing channels. As Amazon replaces brick-and-mortar store shelves and social influencers replace television stars, newer brands are not only taking advantage of these channels, but also are architecting their products and business models around them.
Unsurprisingly, success in the sector has spawned companies attacking nearly every imaginable product vertical. However, not all products are well-suited for disruption from tech startups. Andy Dunn wrote a terrific post outlining The Rise of Digitally Native Vertical Brands, but how does one know which “DNVBs” have the highest chance of success?

Friction Of Incumbent Channel And Unique Digital Enablement
A defining feature of DNVBs is that they are sold online. Selling online makes the most sense when there is a built-in friction associated with purchasing through the existing offline channel.
For instance, Dollar Shave Club took advantage of the fact that razors and razor blades are available in convenience stores, but are often behind a protective plastic or behind the counter, requiring the involvement of a store associate. Warby Parker thrived on the fact that eyewear shops often have to turn away or delay patients without a prescription. Nurx and Roman are building off of the friction of getting prescriptions for medications that people are sometimes uncomfortable talking about.
Irrationality of price can be another form of purchase friction. For instance, when buying a mattress from offline stores, it can be almost impossible to price compare, because manufacturers fragment their product line such that each store has slightly different SKUs. Startups like Casper and Purple Mattress were able to draw on that inefficiency.
Prescription acne medication is another example of a product that is priced exorbitantly relative to the costs of production, largely because of the way medications are prescribed, purchased, and paid for today. Curology was able to offer those same active ingredients in their own product online for a fraction of the cost.
A somewhat obvious part of digital enablement is the ability for the product to ship well. To sell something online, its physical dimensions and economics need to work with shipping. One of the important, but overlooked, reasons for Casper’s success, is that their mattresses are made of foam and compress into a relatively standard and compact box. At the same time, there is no work required of the customer, since the mattress takes form upon exposure to air. If instead Casper had to ship fully formed mattresses, the shipping logistics would be more complicated and require a higher sales price.
Another way to think about digital enablement is when something about selling direct-to-consumer over the internet allows for a type of product design or economics not feasible in the traditional channel.
For instance, Grove Collaborative sells household cleaning products in concentrate form (i.e., without water) to dramatically reduce shipping weight and cost. Incumbent competitors like Windex are designed around optimizing shelf-space in physical retail stores, so can not feasibly make the same product innovation.

Frequency Of Purchase Or High Average Order Value
Just as with software, successful consumer businesses generally have high customer lifetime values (LTV). There are two ways to achieve high LTV: a single but large and profitable purchase, or repeated smaller, less profitable purchases.
Consumer products that have recurring or highly repetitive purchase behavior are particularly interesting. These businesses can afford to spend more on acquiring a new customer because once that customer is acquired, the company will continue to earn revenue for a long period of time. Many of the very successful consumer brand startups over the last decade have had this feature. Subscription or high repeat businesses like Ritual, Dia & Co., Lola, and Hubble are just a few recent examples.
Yet there are a host of brand startups selling highly infrequent purchases. Furniture and jewelry are good examples here. These startups instead focus on having high average order value, and associated profit, such that they can recoup marketing investment in the first sale. While possible, going for the one-time high order value is generally a more challenging way to build a big business, as the lack of subsequent interaction with the customer does not afford opportunities to introduce other products.
Hubble contact lenses cost $30 per monthly supply.
 
High Margins On The Product And For The Retailer 
Another important feature to consider is the product margins in the category. What constitutes “high” varies considerably based on the category. But generally speaking, products that have 70%+ gross margins are particularly attractive because they exhibit many of the same characteristics as software businesses, especially when they also have high purchase frequency as discussed above. In fact, the income statement of a company selling these types of products could easily be mistaken for those of a software business. Most consumer products have gross margins of 30–50%, but there are a few categories where 70% margins have been sustainable, such as skin care, cosmetics, and vitamins.
Because DNVBs usually sell direct-to-consumer, it’s also important to consider the category retail gross margins. Some categories, such as grocery, have notoriously thin retail margins, whereas others, such as luggage, apparel, and eye care have much higher margins.
A common myth is that new brands can succeed by going direct-to-consumer because they cut out the retail margin. Nothing could be further from the truth. Brands are simply taking on the burden of distribution themselves, rather than offloading it to a larger retailer, which if anything can usually manage distribution more efficiently because of economies of scale.
As a result, consumer brand startups will have to take on retail costs, such as managing an e-commerce platform, customer service, and most importantly customer acquisition. These startups shouldn’t count on gross margins being higher than incumbents for a long time, so need to enter a category where those margins are sufficiently high from the beginning to support marketing costs.

Propensity To Share Via Social Media OR Garner Earned Media
The best brands are those which make their customers proud to be associated with them, which happens when a brand can become associated with a customer’s identity. Brands whose customers effectively market on their behalf — either by word of mouth or more recently via social media — have a built-in advantage in the form of dramatically lower customer acquisition costs.
Daniel Wellington now has 3.5 million Instagram followers, which is a good example of a brand that used social media sharing instead of traditional advertising to build a $250 million revenue business in a few short years. Glossier, which stated that 70% of their online sales comes via peer referrals, is another example.
Even if customers themselves don’t post selfies using a product, earned media can fill the gap. Earned media is when reporters and bloggers write about the product. It can be a cost effective marketing channel for the right products. Companies with compelling missions and founding stories are often able to capture outsized earned media. Toms, the footwear and apparel brand that donated a pair of shoes to a child in need for every one purchased, is a company that continually receives earned media given the important social mission. Having celebrities involved in the company is another way to generate outsized earned media.
One way to evaluate whether it’s possible to achieve this type of marketing advantage is to consider the historical importance of brand in a category. For instance, brand has mattered in products like shoes and apparel for a long time, but is less important in verticals like mattresses and furniture. But it can also be dangerous to assume that the future will be just like the past. Some of the best consumer startups have been those that were able to create an important brand in a category where there was formerly none.
Glossier, the makeup brand from Into the Gloss, has the perfect natural look set.
Timelessness Of The Product
Certain categories, such as apparel, are subject to rapidly changing fashion cycles. Starting or investing in these types of businesses is particularly difficult because one has to underwrite the success of the current generation of products while continually anticipating consumer’s future preferences. And brands that stand for something may very well find it difficult to evolve effectively if preferences shift against their brand ethos.
Volatility and difficulty of predicting changing preferences is a common reason why investors do not back in early-stage consumer products. But there are many categories in which consumer preferences are stable and change only over the course of decades rather than by the season. For example, products like household goods, personal care, and over-the-counter medications stay consistent.
Conclusion
The above is not a fully comprehensive look at what drives success in consumer product startups. There are certainly examples that violate many — if not all — of these rules, yet have found tremendous success regardless. Allbirds is a recent example that does not fit neatly into many of the criteria above, yet seems to be finding great success.
Historically, in each generation there have always been a handful of new consumer brands that emerge that later become household names. What’s unique about our current environment is that new brands now have the potential to directly reach their target customers without the restraints of the wholesale channel, and therefore can scale quickly.
Of course, many new consumer brand startups will not succeed. That’s just the nature of the game. But the odds are now better and for those that can break through, and the prize is now sufficiently large that founders and investors should pay attention.


It’s official—Meredith Corporation will buy Time Inc. in an all-cash transaction valued at $2.8 billion. Meredith said today it agreed to pay $18.50 per share for all outstanding shares of Time Inc. As reported earlier this month by the New York Times, the deal, which is slated to close in the first quarter of next year, includes equity financing from the billionaire Koch brothers, who are known for supporting conservative policy. Meredith said they will have no influence in the combined company.
Meredith has been trying to buy Time Inc. since at least 2013, when its first offer was rejected because the two companies could not agree on what magazine titles would be included in the deal. Meredith approached Time again earlier this year, but those discussions also stalled when Meredith reportedly failed to secure enough bank financing for the acquisition.
Then earlier this month, the New York Times reported that talks were back on after Charles G. and David H. Koch, who own manufacturing conglomerate Koch Industries but are probably better known for their conservative advocacy, agreed to back Meredith’s offer with more than $500 million in equity.
As it turns out, the Koch brothers are contributing more than that. Meredith said that Koch Equity Development, the investment arm of Koch Industries, will contribute $650 million in equity to help finance the deal.
Media watchdogs have expressed concern over the potential influence of the Koch brothers on Time Inc. The siblings fund a non-profit advocacy group called Americans for Prosperity to back conservative candidates and positions and though the Koch brothers were critical of President Donald Trump’s campaign tactics, they have recently become closer with the administration to support its tax reform efforts.
Meredith said in its press release that the Koch brothers will have no influence on how the company is run or its editorial content: “[Koch Equity Development] will not have a seat on the Meredith Board and will have no influence on Meredith’s editorial or managerial operations. KED’s non-controlling, preferred equity investment underscores a strong belief in Meredith’s strength as a business operator, its strategies, and its ability to unlock significant value from the Time Inc. acquisition.”
Meredith’s brands include Better Homes & Gardens, Allrecipes, Parents and Shape. It also runs 17 local news stations in 12 markets. Time Inc. is best known for publishing its eponymous news weekly, but its other titles include Fortune, Entertainment Weekly, People, Sports Illustrated and InStyle.
Meredith said the first two years after the acquisition are expected to generate cost synergies of $400 million to $500 million, which is probably not reassuring to Time Inc. employees considering its multiple layoff rounds this year.
Once the two companies are merged, Meredith says they will serve nearly 200 million consumers, with its digital media business reaching 170 million monthly unique visitors in the U.S. Meredith and Time Inc. made combined revenues of $4.8 billion in 2016, including $2.7 billion in total advertising revenue (with $700 million of that from digital advertising) and adjusted EBITDA of $800 million.

Featured Image: Gary Hershorn / Contributor/Getty Images


I’ve been thinking about token sale marketing lately mostly because it’s been so bad. I’ve gotten hundreds of emails asking me to be an ICO advisor or evangelist or influencer primarily because the ICO marketing techniques come to us straight out of the spammiest corners of affiliate marketing. I’ve gotten emails from founders who have been promised “posts on TechCrunch” by content marketers with no relationship with the site and I’ve seen founders bribe writers on Forbes and Medium and other user-generated sites to simply add a link. The bottom line?
You’re doing it wrong.
Why will your token sale fail? It’s not because you didn’t get Posh Spice or Richard Branson to tweet about you. It’s not because you didn’t pay Floyd Mayweather to stand in front of a pile of cash and suggest, in the most winking way, that you, too, can be as rich as him. It’s because you did do these things but forgot the core of startup growth: you need fans. And those fans have to be so dedicated, so in love with your idea, that they stay up all night clicking away, chatting, and talking about you product.
You need red-eye fans, fans so dedicated to your crazy cause that they become crazy themselves.
The tech hype cycle is quite simple. For a tool to get mass adoption you first need a core group of users who can’t live without your product. Foursquare created this group a SXSW in Austin and Uber created it in San Francisco. These users fit those products into their daily lives and those companies grew and grew. Word spread when those core users opened their phones and checked in or called a car or made a reservation in a few seconds. People around them were fascinated.
“What is that?” they’d ask.
“Let me show you,” said the early-adopter. And thus a behemoth is born.
What happens if you don’t have a product? Then you have to build the hype based on other things. You have to talk about your development experience, how hard you’re working, and how cool you and your team are. Think about the best Kickstarter campaigns you’ve seen. They’re run by personable, excited people, they are staffed with not only programmers but social media managers who get the word out about every wrinkle, and the feedback boards are pep rallies rather than information booths. This works – check out Kickstarter and Indiegogo for confirmation – but it’s very hard.
Now we’re entering a weird world of token sales, a world in which the story is quite confusing. How does it work? A company aims to “raise” $40 million on a team and a dream? That sounds amazing and impossible! It’s actually far less interesting than it sounds and no one will admit that token sales are essentially currency-generating events with little bearing on reality.
A company creates millions of smart contracts for a few pennies each. The company keeps a few million contract tokens for itself and its founders, sells millions of tokens to initial “investors” (really crypto whales with lots of cash), and then, if all goes according to plan, releases tokens to the general public. The company actually “raises” a few million at best and then has to spend the rest of its life propping up that token to keep investors and purchasers happy. It’s a juggling act that most founders don’t expect.
So how do you market this effort? This process and the fact that you are doing it is not news. No one cares except, of course, your red-eyed fans. In short, then you run an ICO you walk a tightrope in a storm with only a few people to at your disposal for help. Once you get to the other side you find only more tightropes.
Your job, then, is simple. You make a good product and tell the world. You spend on product market, show your product to people and hope they become fans, and do regular old outreach via blogs, Facebook, Twitter, and everything else. A token sale isn’t a shortcut. You grow the old-fashioned way: you earn every percentage.
Your users, users who have tried a version of your product and found it amazing, are key here. You need red-eyed users, users who refuse to stop talking about what your product will do not how much money they will “make” in your ICO. You need users who are in love with your team and who are excited about what you will produce.
Making a product is hard. Making a great product is nearly impossible. But if you drop everything to run an ICO you will not make a great product. And it’s great products that get all the attention, all the press, and all the support.
So don’t waste your time or money on influencers, advisors, scammy book makers, and rich people who are getting high on the fumes of a new financial scam. When you pay someone to spread the news about your potential scam sale you’ve lost. When you hire influencers you’ve lost. When you create a list of advisors who may or may not be aware they are on your deck then you’ve lost. The only time you win is when you lead with product.
Token sales have added a massive distraction to the startup founder’s life. A founder’s goal, at the end of the day, is to produce. If they fail, then all the tokens in the world won’t save them. The game hasn’t changed from the old VC days. It’s just gotten far more important to produce a scaffold – financial, personal, and future-forward – to support your dreams. And those red-eyed fans, the fans that will stay up all night to get your next release, are the only relationships you need to cultivate.


More VC money sloshing around Europe: In what was probably one of the worst kept secrets in European VC, London-based Balderton Capital is announcing a new $375 million fund. I understand that it actually closed earlier this year, however, and I’m told has already been used to make ten investments.
In fact, although the firm now has a decent amount of new capital to deploy, this is really business as usual for Balderton. The new fund — the firm’s sixth — will target startups anywhere in Europe at mostly Series A stage, with the occasional seed deal or Series B investment, in addition to follow ons.
In terms of LPs, the VC isn’t disclosing any individual names, including whether or not any European Investment Fund (EIF) or taxpayer-funded British Business Bank money made it into the fund. It simply says that the latest fund has been raised from new and existing investors from Europe, the U.S. and Asia. The inclusion of a small number of Asia-based LPs differs from its previous fund, while the Europe and U.S. portion is split 60/40. (Update: The EIF has confirmed to Business Insider it is a backer of Balderton’s new fund).
Presumably part of its pitch deck to LPs, Balderton says the continent’s technology sector has reached a pivotal moment, in which a “critical mass of fast-growing companies, ambitious entrepreneurs, top tier technical talent, and access to multi-stage investment means that Europe’s next global giant is set to be a technology company”. This it believes could see Europe finally produce a tech company to rival Silicon Valley.
“Europe’s technology sector has already produced many game-changing global companies, but we are still waiting for our continent’s very own Google, Amazon or Facebook to emerge,” says Bernard Liautaud, Balderton Capital’s Managing Partner, in a statement. “As European startups grow bigger faster, we are convinced that is finally about to change. With growth accelerating – this year to date European companies have attracted more than $12.5bn of venture investments – the continent can now produce and scale tech businesses of global significance”.
Meanwhile, Balderton’s previous fund saw it invest in what it claims are a range of category leaders, such as fintechs Nutmeg, Revolut, and Prodigy Finance. Others investments from the same fund include Aircall, Carwow, and Frontier Car Group.
In a call with Balderton Partner Suranga Chandratillake, he said the VC will continue to do a few investments in fintech, while AI — something that the U.K. and Europe excel at — will be a strong focus going forward. “We are very bullish on AI,” he tells me. “Both for extremely complex, unique problems that will require real fundamental AI progression to really make progress… and applied AI”. One example of the latter is Balderton portfolio company Comply Advantage that uses AI to automate compliance for banks and other financial services companies.
Another area that Balderton continues to eye up — and one where Chandratillake is personally excited about – is games, which, again plays to Europe’s strengths. “If you look at the history of games, Europe has historically outperformed the rest of the world and I think it will still do that,” he says.
“The amount of time people spend on games, the number of platforms on which games can be played, the openness of those platforms; all of these trends are extremely positive. Long, long term, things like AI and the fact that more and more of us will have more and more spare time, things like games — in the broadest possible sense — become quite important for humanity”.


Andrew Keen
Contributor



Andrew Keen is the author of three books: Cult of the Amateur, Digital Vertigo and The Internet Is Not The Answer. He produces Futurecast, and is the host of Keen On. 

			More posts by this contributor:			
How one of America’s most powerful policemen learned to love social media after Hurricane Harvey
How human capital is tech’s most valuable resource



There are few greater threats to democracy in the world today than the proliferation of fake news and propaganda.
So it was no surprise that this year’s National Democratic Institute’s (NDI) prestigious Democracy Award focused on websites and research organizations that are countering the distribution of fake news.
The three winners of the 2017 Democracy Award, announced by NDI Chairwoman and former Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, at a ceremony in DC, were the Ukrainian fact-finding website Stopfake.org; the Oxford Internet Institute’s Project on Computational Propaganda and the Philippines-based social news network, Rappler.
All of these award winners are at the “forefront of the battle to combat disinformation…. They work each day to protect the integrity of our information, to protect truth itself,” according to the NDI.
So how do we protect “truth itself” online? What’s the best way to combat fake news?
According to Maria Ressa, the former CNN bureau chief in the Philippines and founder and editor-in-chief of Rappler, the real responsibility for cleaning up fake news lies with social networks like Twitter and Facebook. 97% of those online in the Philippines get their news via Facebook, Ressa reminds us. So social media networks need to “take responsibility” in revealing the ways propaganda spreads online — like the bloggers consciously spreading lies in the Philippines, she says.
But Philip Howard, the professor of internet studies at the Oxford Internet Institute, disagrees with Ressa. “The time for industry self-regulation has passed,” Howard says. It passed after the Brexit vote and the election of Trump. Now some sort of “gentle” policy oversight is necessary, Howard insists, to stop the online spread of what he calls “junk” news.
Fake news is an incredibly hard problem to address. But what should be applauded is the heroism of journalists like Rappler’s Ressa, who are at working to counter online disinformation.
“We talk truth to power,” Ressa says. Telling that truth is a particularly brave thing to do in the Philippines, where the regime of President Rodrigo Duterte has been accused of involvement in hundreds of extra-judicial killings. And what Rappler — a curated website which checks the veracity of news — highlights is that there can never be an effective technological fix for fake news.
Only accountable journalists at news sites like Rappler or Stopfake.org can effectively combat disinformation, says Ressa. There is no app that can protect truth itself.
Many thanks to the folks at the Greater Providence Chamber of Commerce for their help in the production of this interview.

Featured Image: Thomas Faull/Getty Images


Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.adSetOthAT('kventryid=1571090;kvcmsid=tcr:1571090;kvugc=0;kvsubj=977570:980877:983714:981525:6378649:980826:5160607:6378650;kvent=3862702:3611531:3685848:3692516:3696129:3922598:5420114:3856042:5497151:3571000:4177200:3608857:3460256:3461873:5417120:3552721:3695185:3697974:4974275');
			window.htmlAdWH('93484976', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDiv2c5ec6354c');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




Earlier today, November 26 2017, I was turned away from immigration at Shanghai’s Hongqiao airport by Chinese officials.
Alongside a number of other visitors, I had been waiting in line to take advantage of the city’s 144-hour ‘transit’ visa, which allows travelers with an onward flight to stay in Shanghai without needing to secure a visa before they travel.
The transit visa is issued on arrival if a visitor is not returning to the destination from which they arrived. For example, someone arriving from Hong Kong qualifies for the visa so long as their onward destination is outside of China but not Hong Kong. I flew in from Hong Kong and my exit ticket to Bangkok was booked for early afternoon on November 29, putting me comfortably inside the 144-hour limit.
As someone who has lived in Asia for nearly a decade, I’ve become accustomed to visas and the fact that, even when there’s another option, getting one before you travel is the best approach. In the case of China, however, I’ve long given up on the prospects of doing so.
Even though TechCrunch’s reporting aims to highlight promising startups and the role of tech in this modern and connected world, my status as a journalist in Thailand — where I live and hold an annual visa as a registered member of the media — has made getting a legitimate pre-travel visa for China impossible. The fact that I am from the UK — which doesn’t have 10-year visa options like the U.S. — means that one route taken by some reporters, who are able to get decade-long business visas, is not open to me.
Last summer, for example, I visited the Chinese embassy in Bangkok to start the process for a visa for our next TechCrunch China event in Beijing that November. Ultimately, I was told I was welcome to apply but that I would require a range of paperwork in addition to the usual documents, including approval from the municipal government of Shanghai and the mayor of Shanghai.
In order to make progress, I had a member of the embassy staff explain the requirements in Mandarin over the phone to an employee at TechCrunch’s partner company in China. I was later told by our partner that what was required was unclear and likely impossible to deliver on.
China, you see, will never reject your visa. Instead, an insurmountable wall is erected to prevent you from ever applying in the first place.
That’s where the appeal of the transit visa comes in. You simply book your flights to ensure you won’t overstay, then turn up.
Since 2015, I have used the transit visa system on six occasions. Even then, I’ve been nervous. Each time, I watched other travelers processed quickly after showing their documents, while I was kept waiting — one time for more than an hour as my bag ended up in lost property — as immigration officials looked over a computer screen (presumably showing my details) and summoned their seniors. Eventually, after waiting on the sidelines and watching travelers flow through with success, I’d be told I had been let in.

Travelers pass through immigration in Shanghai while I wait
Not this time
This time however, starting at around 5:30 pm, the wait was noticeably longer than usual. A senior official returned after around 45 minutes, telling me I was to board a plane to return to Hong Kong.
I was permitted to stay for 24 hours under the shorter transit visa option, but my request to stay for three days — and not utilize the full 144-hour visa — would not be allowed.
The reason, as it was explained to me, was that in 2015 I had broken Chinese law when I failed to present myself to authorities in Beijing when I had visited and stayed at an Airbnb residence on two different trips. Unbeknownst to me at the time — and something that was not communicated by Airbnb — foreigners are required to register at a local police station, but in most cases the hotels where they stay handle this..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Therefore anyone using Airbnb, or staying with friends, must voluntarily visit the city’s police station and register. As anyone who has ever spent time in China and doesn’t speak the language will know, that’s challenging. But it is the law.
Even still, I was surprised. I used the very same transit visa on my last trip to Shanghai in June, and again in November of last year when I visited Beijing. This year, I was granted a visa on arrival (which is not a transit visa) to visit Shenzhen in June without trouble.
The immigration officers explained to me that a new law that had come into effect in recent months meant I was unable to exercise the longer transit visa. My previous visits were not subject to that, I was told. The officials denied my request for details about this new law.
The two incidents that they cited — from the first half 2015 — did indeed happen. However, it wasn’t until I was leaving Beijing Airport on the second trip that I was made aware of my crime. Two burly immigration officials pulled me to the side of the immigration queue and took my passport. They then berated me in Mandarin and summoned an English-speaking officer.
After some delay and an explanation of the police registration requirement, I was instructed to give information about my host. I provided her telephone number and name as requested. The officers made me sign a piece of paper that was written in Mandarin and, after I expressed concern that I would miss my flight, I was allowed to leave and get an exit stamp in my passport.
I made my flight, just, but the incident made an impact. Aware that Airbnb operated in a legal grey area in China at the time and concerned I might have put my host in hot water, I decided to stop using the service in China and contact her to ensure all was okay.
My host, who is Chinese, told me that she did indeed receive a call from the police who asked to know the nature of our relationship, including how long had she known me. She told them I had booked the room online.

I spoke to her after I left Shanghai yesterday and she recalled that her experience with me was “super weird.” As an Airbnb host for four years who has welcomed more than 100 guests, she said she had never had any problem like it with anyone else. She repeated her belief that I didn’t actually need a visa for short stay.
Back to Hong Kong
Back to the situation in Shanghai this weekend, faced with the prospect of being denied entry, I tried my best to calmly explain that I was only made aware of my rule-breaking the second time. Since then, I explained, I had made a point of only staying in hotels as I didn’t want to break rules. Plus, most importantly, I had since returned to China, been permitted entry, and complied with the requirement each time.
My plea fell on deaf ears, however. Perhaps angry at my efforts to argue my cause, I was informed that the senior officer had decided to remove my option for a 24-hour visa. I was told to travel immediately, I would not be admitted — period. I need to leave now, they said. The plane I had taken in from Hong Kong had been turned around and was ready to leave; this was the flight I was to be on.
The reason I was in Shanghai was our latest TechCrunch China event which runs for two days. This meant I would miss all of it.
Compounding my misery, Hong Kong Airlines, which I used to fly into Shanghai, then informed me I’d need to buy a ticket to leave, although I later ‘struck a deal’ to go back for free.
Exit agreed, I was then accompanied by a very tall security officer, who took my passport and escorted me and the airline representatives to collect my luggage and arrange my seat on the next flight at the Hong Kong Airlines desk.
I asked if I could take a photo with my chaperone to mark the occasion, but was told no.

Crunchbase






				Tencent Holdings			


 
Founded
1998


Overview
Tencent is a Chinese internet service portal offering value-added internet, mobile, telecom, and online advertising services.

Since its establishment in 1998, Tencent has maintained steady growth under its user-oriented operating strategies. It provides value-added internet, mobile and telecom services, as well as online advertising under the strategic goal of providing users with "one-stop online …


Location

Shenzhen, Guangdong



Categories

Social Media Marketing, 																													Internet, 																													Online Games, 																													Advertising, 																													Mobile 


Founders
Zhidong Zhang


Website

https://www.tencent.com/en-us/ 


Full profile for Tencent Holdings 










“Have a happy journey” — ground staff, airline staff and the immigration officer arrange my ticket back to Hong Kong
Ticket secured, I was escorted back through checkin and onto the plane — it was truly whirlwind — all while my passport was in the possession of my large minder. At the plane, it was briefly returned to me, but I was told that I had been given a seat on the condition that my passport was turned over to the Hong Kong Airlines crew, who would return it to me when we landed.
Options exhausted, I reluctantly agreed and, after holding the flight up significantly through my situation, I walked through a plane of disgruntled passengers glaring at me — the cause of their 90-minute delay — to take my seat in the corner at the rear of the plane.
One airline attendant had apparently heard what had happened to me and offered an apology.
“This is the Mainland, sir.”
Why the trouble?
I’ve heard stories of senior people at major global media companies being given transit visas on the condition that they remain inside the airport, and other such restrictions on political reporters, but I didn’t ever think I — a technology blogger — would join the club.
It’s hard to speculate on Chinese policy with any certainty. One thing I do know is that Chinese immigration have been aware that I am a “journalist” since I was given a tourist visa in 2015.
At the time, the official who granted me the visa told me that, even though I had applied for a three-month, multiple-entry visa, he would only give me a one-week visa. These are ‘special’ since they are not even among the options for travelers. His main concern was that I might write stories while on Chinese soil and, since he didn’t entirely understand what TechCrunch did, he wanted to err on the side of caution.
My experience this week shows that the level of caution has been raised significantly. I neither write investigative stories about the Chinese government, nor do I cover politics. But I am someone who is viewed as a member of the media. While in the past, there was some tolerance to us passing through, China has decided to get tighter still.
The fact that the 19th Congress has just taken place, thus making politics more intense right now, may be a factor.
Some might suggest that stories I’ve written on censorship in China may be a reason, but I’ve been covering thorny topics for some time, and it hasn’t ever prevented my entry into China.
It’s hugely disappointing for me because I always enjoy my (short) trips to China. It’s a great chance to see a different kind of innovation to the U.S., one that isn’t as well-understood or even reported on as the U.S.. Then there’s the opportunity to talk to young startups, huge $500 billion giants like Tencent, and those with designs on influencing Asia and other parts of the world. I’ve lost count of the number of events, company launches, and other story opportunities that I’ve had to pass on due to visa concerns.
Our objective is to shine light on these topics for our readers, but unfortunately the Chinese government is making that hard to do.

Featured Image: Timothy Allen/Getty Images



0
SHARES






























		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'organic-thumbnails-a',
			container: 'taboola-organic-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Organic Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});
	




		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'thumbnails-e',
			container: 'taboola-sponsored-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Sponsored Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});


Update: Apologies. I’d written today a breezy story titled: “Snap’s Evan Spiegel is clinging to billionaire status by his fingernails.” I cited reporting that this remaining 86,657,812 shares are reportedly worth $1.07 billion at this point. What I failed to note — and a source close to the company has brought to my attention —  is that those roughly 86 million shares are class A shares only. Spiegel also owns roughly 143.7 million class C shares and another 7.5 million class B shares to safely secure his status as someone worth well over $1 billion, despite the slide in Snap’s share price since its March IPO. Very sorry for the screw-up. The original story follows below.
It’s hard to fault someone for being barely a billionaire — a self-made one at that, who happens to be just 27 years old. Still, owing to the performance of Snap Inc.’s performance since its March IPO, such is the position of its cofounder and CEO, Evan Spiegel.
Spiegel was worth more than three times that amount just nine months ago, when the company made its splashy debut. Hailed initially as a triumph, Snap’s shares opened their first trading day at $24, soaring 41 percent out of the gate. Their price quickly began drifting south, however, as Instagram began more aggressively replicating the features that made Snapchat so popular.
Today, its shares trade at just less than $13 each, giving the company a market cap of $15.6 billion, down from a peak valuation of $31 billion.
What does it really matter? Not much if Snap’s plans to reinvigorate its business can gain solid footing.
As you may have read in TC earlier this month, the company is reversing its stance on several key things. One of them will be to embrace social media influencers, rather than shun them, as was previously the case. Snap had also focused primarily on first-world countries where high-bandwidth video is readily accessible, largely abandoned developing countries. But after missing revenue expectations by $30 million in the third quarter, Spiegel acknowledged on the company’s earnings call that “[Snap needs] to accelerate the adoption of our product among Android users . . . and users in the rest-of-the-world markets.”
Not last the company says it’s prepared to work harder to attract users above the age of 34, a segment to which it was not catering earlier.
Snap is also doing more to squeeze revenue out of its users, only  4.5 million who were new to the company in the last quarter. (That amounts to less than three percent user growth quarter over quarter.)
As our colleague Josh Constine reported a couple of days ago, for example, Snapchat is looking to win over more businesses with immersive new ads formats. One, called Promoted Stories, strings together multiple Snaps into a longer-form slideshows that can be opened from a tile on the Stories page. A separate initiative, called Augmented Reality Trial ads, allows people to play with an AR version of a product overlaid on the scene surrounding them.
Only time will tell if these initiatives make the kind of impact that Spiegel hopes they will.
In the meantime, he may have to make do with less. Though he and cofounder Bobby Murphy reportedly sold shares worth $272 million apiece at the time of Snap’s IPO and he has continued to make regularly scheduled stock sales (he sold 1.65 million shares on November 9th at an average price of $12.42, for a total transaction of roughly $20.5 million), his remaining 86,657,812 shares are reportedly worth — eek — $1.07 billion at this point.
On the day of Snap’s IPO, they were worth nearly $3.6 billion.


Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.htmlAdWH('93484976', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDiv5cbfa33be3');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




For decades technology companies have enjoyed a near-unbroken run of great publicity. Products and services are lauded as shiny and covetable. Adoption is couched as inevitable. Direction goes unquestioned. Engineering genius is assumed. And a generous margin is indefinitely applied to gloss over day-to-day errors (‘oh, just a few bugs!’) — allowing problematic functioning to be normalized and sanctioned in all but a handful of outlier instances.
The worst label these companies have generally had to worry about is being called ‘boring’. Or, at a push, overly addictive.
Tech giants have been given space to trumpet their products as revolutionary! Break through! Cutting-edge agents of mass behavioral change! To, on the one hand, tell us their tools are actively restructuring our societies. Yet also fade into the background of the conversation the moment any negative impact gets raised.
Then they prefer to stay silent.
When forced, they might put out a blog post — claiming their tools are impartial, their platforms neutral, their role mere ‘blameless intermediary’.
The not so subtle subtext is: The responsibility for any problems caused by our products is all yours, dear users.
Or at least that was the playbook, until very recently.
What’s changed is that lately the weight of problems being demonstrably attached to heavily used tech services has acquired such a gravitational and political pull that it’s becoming harder and harder for these businesses to sidestep the concept of wider societal and civic responsibilities.
Whether it’s Facebook and election disinformation. Google’s questionable choices in information ranking and ad monetization. Amazon’s appetite for crushing traditional retail and evading tax. Airbnb diluting local neighborhoods and pushing up rents. Uber being outted as a rule-breaker and a bully — again and again. Or Twitter providing a safe place for nazis to spread violent hate speech and misogynists to harass women.
Libertarians are unlikely to object to any of this, of course, but it really is long overdue that the rose-tinted glasses came off the liberal view of tech companies.
The warning signs have been there for some years now. Few apparently cottoned on.
The honeymoon is over
Silicon Valley’s creativity may have been seeded in the 1960s by hippy counterculture but the technological powerhouse its community constructed has graduated from hanging around in communes to churning out some of the most fervent capitalists in human history.
Growth is its icon, now. Power the preferred trip. And free love became voyeuristic data capture.
You may champion capitalism and believe, of all available systems, it alone delivers the best and widest societal benefits — albeit trickle down economics is a desiccating theory still in dire need of a flood… (And that’s before you even start to factor in advancing automation destroying lower skilled jobs).
But the messages tech giants have used to sell their services have hardly amounted to an honest summary of their product propositions. That would require their marketing to confess to something more like this: ‘Hi! We’re here to asset strip your personal data and/or public infrastructure to maximize our revenues and profits any way we can — but at least you’re getting to use our convenient service!’
Instead they’ve stood behind grand statements about making the world more open and connected. Organizing information and making it universally accessible. Living like a local. Having a global mission. And so on and on.
They’ve continued to channel hippyish, feel good vibes. Silicon Valley still stuck on claims of utopianism.
This of course is the slippery lie called marketing. But tech’s disingenuous messages have generally been allowed to pass with far less critical scrutiny than gets applied to companies in all sorts of other industries and sectors.
And as a consequence of, what? On some level it seems to be the result of an uncritical awe of gadgetry and ‘techno-newness’ — coupled with a fetishization of the future that’s greased by ‘association attachment’ to sci-fi themes that are in turn psychologically plugged into childhood nostalgia (and/or fueled by big Hollywood marketing budgets).
On the other hand it may well also be a measure of the quantity of VC funding that has been pumped into digital businesses — and made available for polishing marketing messages and accelerating uptake of products through cost subsidization.
Uber rides, for example, are unsustainably cheap because Uber has raised and is burning through billions of VC dollars.
You don’t see — say — big pharma being put on the kind of pedestal that tech giants have enjoyed. And there the products are often literally saving lives.
Meanwhile technologists of the modern era have enjoyed an extended honeymoon in publicity and public perception terms.
Perhaps, though, that’s finally coming to an end.
And if it is, that will be a good thing. Because you can’t have mature, informed debate about the pros and cons of software powered societal change if critical commentary gets shouted down by a bunch of rabid fanboys the moment anyone raises a concern.
Money for monopolizing attention
The long legacy of near zero critical debate around the de-formative societal pressures of tech platforms — whose core priority remains continued growth and market(s) dominance, delivered at a speed and scale that outstrips even the huge upheavals of the industrial revolution — has helped entrench a small group of tech companies as some of the most powerful and wealthiest businesses the world has ever known.
Indeed, the race is on between tech’s big hitters to see who can become the first trillion dollar company. Apple almost managed it earlier this month, after the launch of its latest iPhone. But Alphabet, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft are all considered contenders in this insane valuation game.
At the same time, these companies have been disrupting all sorts of other structures and enterprises — as a consequence of their dominance and power.
Like the free Internet. Now people who spend time online spend the majority of their time in a series of corporate walled gardens that are ceaselessly sucking up their input signals to order to continuously micro-target content and advertising.
Social media behemoth Facebook also owns Instagram, also owns WhatsApp. It doesn’t own your phone’s OS but Facebook probably pwns your phone’s battery usage because of how much time you’re spending inside its apps.
The commercially owned social web is a far cry from the vision of academically minded knowledge exchange envisaged by the World Wide Web’s inventor. (Tim Berners-Lee’s view now is that the system is failing. “People are being distorted by very finely trained AIs that figure out how to distract them,” he told The Guardian earlier this month.)
It’s also a seismic shift in media terms. Mass media used to mean everyone in the society watching the same television programs. Or reading news in the same handful of national or local newspapers.
Those days are long gone. And media consumption is increasingly shifting online because a few tech platforms have got so expert at dominating the attention economy.
More importantly, media content is increasingly being encountered via algorithmically driven tech platforms — whose AIs apparently can’t distinguish between deliberately skewed disinformation and genuine reportage. Because it’s just not in their business interests to do so.
Engagement is their overriding intent. And the tool they use to keep eyeballs hooked is micro-targeted content at the individual level. So, given our human tendency to be triggered by provocative and sensationalist content, it’s provocative and sensationalist content the algorithms prefer to serve. Even if it’s fake. Even if it’s out-and-out malicious. Even if it’s hateful.
An alternative less sensationalist interpretation or a boring truth just doesn’t get as much airplay. And easily gets buried under all the other more clickable stuff.
These algorithms don’t have an editorial or a civic agenda. Their mission is to optimize revenue. They are unburdened by considerations of morality — because they’re not human.
Meanwhile their human masters have spent years shrugging off editorial and civic responsibilities which they see as a risk to their business models — by claiming the platform is just a pipe. No matter if the pipe is pumping sewage and people are consuming it..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Traditional media has its own problems with skewed agendas and bias, of course. But the growing role and power of tech platforms as media distributors suggests the communal consensus represented by the notion of ‘mass media’ is dissolving precisely because algorithmic priorities are so singleminded in their pursuit of engaged eyeballs.
Tech giants have perfected automated, big data fueled content customization and personalization engines that are able to pander to each individual and their peculiar tastes — regardless of the type of content that means they end up pushing.
None of us know what stuff another person eyeing one of these tech platforms is seeing in any given moment. We’re all in the dark as to what’s going on beyond our own feeds.
Many less techie people won’t even realize that what they see isn’t the same as what everyone else sees. Or isn’t just the sum of all the content their friends are sharing, in the case of Facebook’s platform.
The recipes underpinning these individual information hierarchies are only abstractly alluded to. They are certainly not publicly shared. The full gamut of targeting factors are never disclosed. The algorithms are not open sourced. Calls to open up their black boxes have been studiously ignored.
What self-regulation there is tends to be piecemeal. After the outraged fact — of YouTube being shown monetizing extremism, for example, or (a more recent accusation) pandering to pedophiles.
But now some politicians are talking openly about regulating the Internet — apparently emboldened by growing public disquiet. That’s how bad it’s got.
After the love is gone
If we allow social consensus to be edited out by a tiny number of massively dominate content distribution platforms which are algorithmically bent on accelerating a kind of totalitarian individualism, the existential question that raises is how can we hope to maintain social cohesion?
The risk seems to be that social media’s game of micro-targeted fragmentation ends up ripping us apart along our myriad fault lines — by playing to our prejudices and filtering out differences of opinion. Russian agents are just taking what’s there and running with it — via the medium of Facebook ads or Twitter bots.
Were they able to swing a vote or two? Even worse: Were they so successful at amplifying prejudice they’ve been able to drive an uptick in hate crime?
Even if you set aside directly hostile foreign agents using tech tools with the malicious intent of sewing political division and undermining democratic processes, the commercial lure of online disinformation is a potent distorting force in its own right.
This pull spun up a cottage industry of viral content generating teens in Macedonia — thousands of miles away from the US presidential election — financially encouraging them to pen provocative yet fake political news stories designed to catch the attention of Facebook’s algorithm, go viral and rack up revenue thanks to Google’s undiscriminating ad network.
The incentives on these platforms are the same: It’s about capturing attention — at any cost.
Another example where algorithmic incentives can be seen warping content is the truly awful stuff that’s made for (and uploaded at scale to) YouTube — with the sole and cynical intention of ad display monetization via children’s non-discerning eyeballs. No matter the harm it might cause. The incentives of the medium form content into whatever is necessary to generate the click.
In the past decade we even coined a new word for this phenomenon: ‘Clickbait’. Bait meaning something that looks tasty when glimpsed, yet once you grab it you’re suddenly the thing that’s being consumed.
Where algorithmic platforms have been allowed to dominate media distribution what’s happened is the grand shared narratives that traditionally bring people together in societies have come under concealed yet sustained attack.
Both as a consequence of algorithmic micro-targeting priorities; and, in many cases, by intentional trolling (be that hostile foreign agents, hateful groups or just destructive lolzseekers) — those agents and groups who have got so good at understanding and gamifying tech platforms’ algorithms they’ve been able to “weaponize information” as the UK Prime Minister put it earlier this month — when she publicly accused Russia of using the Internet to try to disrupt Western democracies.
And tech platforms gaining so much power over media distribution seems to have resulted in a splintering of public debate into smaller and angrier factions, with groups swelling in polarized opposition over the dividing lines of multiple divisive issues.
Some of the heated debate has been fake, clearly (seeded on the platforms by Kremlin trolls). But the point is fake opinions can help form real ones. And again it’s the tech pipes channeling and fueling these divisive views which work to fracture social consensus and undo compromise.

Really the result looks to be the opposite of those feel-good social media marketing claims about ‘bringing people closer together’.
Cashing out
A few massively powerful tech platforms controlling so much public debate is not just terrible news for social cohesion and media pluralism, given their algorithms have no interest in sifting fake from real news (au contraire). Nor even in airing alternative minority perspectives (unless they’ve divisively clickable).
It’s also bad news if you’re an entrepreneur hoping to build something disruptive of your own.
Unseating a Google or a Facebook is hardly conceived of as a possibility in the startup space these days. Instead many startups are being founded and funded to build a specific feature or technology in the explicit hope of selling it to Google or Facebook or Amazon or Apple as a quick feature bolt-on for their platforms. Or else to flash them with relevant talent and encourage an acquihire.
These startups are effectively already working as unpaid outsourcers within tech giants’ product dev departments, bootstrapping or raising a little early funding for their IP and feature idea in the hopes of cashing out with a swift exit and a quick win.
But the real winners are still the tech giants. Their platforms are the rule and the rulers now.
Sure, in the social space Snapchat stood its ground against big acquisition offers. And managed to claw its way to an IPO. Yet Facebook has responded by systematically cloning its rival’s ideas — copy-pasting key features across its own social platforms to amplify its own growth — and successfully boxing Snap’s momentum.
If Facebook had not been allowed to acquire additional social networks it might be a different story. Instead it’s been able to pay to maintain and extend its category dominance.
Just last month it acquired a social startup, tbh, which had got a little bit popular with teens. And because it already owns or can buy any potentially popular rival network, network effects work to seal its category dominance in place. The exception is China — which has its own massively dominant homegrown social giants as a consequence of actively walling out Western tech giants.
In the West, the only shade darkening the platform giants’ victory parade is the specter of regulators and regulation. Google, for example, was fined a record-breaking $2.73BN this September by the EU for antitrust violations around how it displays price comparison information in search results. The Commission judged it had both demoted rival search comparison services in organic search results, and prominently placed its own.
In Europe, where Google has a circa 90 per cent share of the Internet search market, it has been named a dominant company in that category — putting it under special obligation not to abuse its power to try to harm existing competitors or block new entrants.
This obligation applies both in a market where a company is judged to be dominant and in any other markets it may be seeking to enter — which perhaps raises wider competition questions over, for example, Alphabet/Google’s new push, via its DeepMind division, into the digital health sector.
You could even argue that the overturning of net neutrality in the US could have the potential to challenge tech platform power. Except that’s far more likely to end up penalizing smaller players who don’t have the resources to pay for their services to be prioritized by ISPs — while tech giants have deep pockets and can just cough up to continue their ability to dominate the online conversation.
Even the European Commission’s record-breaking antitrust fine against Google Shopping shrinks beside a company whose dominance of online advertising has brought it staggering wealth: Its parent entity, Alphabet, posted annual revenues of more than $90BN in 2016.
That said, the Commission has other antitrust irons in the fire where Google is concerned — including a formal investigation looking at how other Google services are bundled with its dominant Android mobile OS. And it has suggested more fines are on the way.
The EC has also gone after Amazon over e-book pricing and publisher contracts — forcing a change to its practices to settle that antitrust probe.
European regulators’ willingness to question and even attempt to check tech platform power may be inspiring others to take action — earlier this month, for example, the state of Missouri launched an investigation into whether Google has broken its consumer protection and antitrust laws.
Meanwhile Silicon Valley darling, Uber, got a big shock this September when the local transport regulator in its most important European market — London — said it would not be renewing its license to operate in the city, citing concerns about its corporate behavior and its attitude to passenger safety. (A decision that’s since been validated by the news which broke this month that Uber had concealed a massive data breach affecting 57M of its users and drivers for a full year.)
Next year incoming European data protection regulation will bring in a requirement for companies to disclose data breaches within 72 hours — or face large fines of up to 4% of their annual global turnover (or €20M, whichever is greater).

Crunchbase






				Google			


 
Founded
1998


Overview
Google is a multinational corporation that is specialized in internet-related services and products. The company’s product portfolio includes Google Search, which provides users with access to information online; Knowledge Graph that allows users to search for things, people, or places as well as builds systems recognizing speech and understanding natural language; Google Now, which provides information …


Location

Mountain View, California



Categories

Search Engine, 																													Blogging Platforms, 																													Ad Network, 																													Collaboration, 																													Email, 																													Video Streaming, 																													Enterprise Software, 																													Information Technology 


Website

http://www.google.com/ 


Full profile for Google 









These much stiffer penalties for data mishandling are intended, by European lawmakers, to rework how digital businesses view information generated by and around their users.
The change they’re seeking is for digital data to no longer be seen as a limitless resource to be siphoned off, stored and ceaselessly data-mined; but as a potential liability to be collected sparingly, applied carefully and deleted the moment it’s no longer needed — because the financial risk of holding on to it has suddenly, drastically inflated.
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) can really be seen as a reaction to the kinds of behaviors that have enabled and entrenched a few tech giants at the top of the pile.
Another example: Google’s AI division, DeepMind, has had its fingers burnt in the UK this summer after a data-sharing partnership it inked with a London National Health Service Trust was judged to have violated data protection law.
The rules around sharing medical data are already subject to multiple layers of regulation, ethics and information governance. Nonetheless DeepMind was handed access to the non-anonymized medical records of 1.6M patients without their knowledge or consent, and under loosely defined contract terms that failed to firmly lock down what the company might be able to do with highly sensitive medical data.
Was the NHS Trust suffering from an overly shiny perception of technologists’ intentions when it agreed to hand millions of people’s medical records to an ad-targeting giant in exchange for a little free app development assistance and a few years’ unpaid access to the resulting service? You really do have to wonder.
It had been DeepMind’s intention to apply AI to the same data-set. Before it presumably grasped the extent of legal minefield it was careening into — and apparently backed away from feeding the medical records to its AI models (it has claimed the AI research it had intended to conduct on this data-set “has not taken place”).
In the wake of this controversy, the data-sharing contracts DeepMind has been able to ink with other NHS Trusts (most recently Yeovil) have been considerably tighter than the terms applied to its initial data grab. And none of these data-sharing arrangements enable DeepMind to use its data access to develop AI. (A research partnership with Moorfields Eye Hospital is the sole exception.)
The long and short of all that is that — at least in Europe — regulators are responding to tech giants’ moves into sensitive spaces rather faster than they might have done in years past. (Even if still a little after the fact.) And as the sheen comes off tech’s marketing, it’s arguably getting easier for politicians to challenge and stand up to big tech’s unchecked claims.
More and more politicians are also wondering aloud how society can place checks and balances on tech platform power. And as the next sets of rules get forged, they are being written with eyes  opened to the disruptive power of software.
Think different
It may be that we’ve reached the end of the road for tech businesses being able to get such an easy and uncritical ride — and that means tech businesses of all stripes, large or small, established or just starting up.
If so, it’ll be because a few tech giants got so good at selling their one-sided stories they were able to crush competition and entrench themselves as the default. For search. For social. For shopping. For media. For capturing and monopolizing attention.
And because no one thought to question what would happen if — for example — a dominant communication platform allows anyone with a few dollars to spend to micro-target any kind of advertising they choose. Anyone — or any government or hostile actor with a divisive agenda to push.
Facebook has defended its failure to anticipate misuse of its tools by saying ‘we just didn’t think of that’. Which suggests the company’s management was either drunk on its own Kool Aid. Or deliberately chose not to be responsible for anything outside the narrow scope of business growth.
But if they’re not taking responsibility for negative civic and societal impacts, regulators are going to have to make them act with more care.
No one also apparently thought to question what would happen to the quality of information being surfaced and made mainstream if a dominant tech platform’s information sorting algorithms were chained directly to its revenue generating mechanism.
Pulling up the most clickable stuff might be great for business growth but it’s really not so edifying for the eyeballs and minds encountering the base stuff your tech ends up pushing.
A lot of people have spent a lot of time warning about what’s lost when you allow hateful speech to dominate and drown out constructive opinions.
But Twitter ignored them anyway. Because its platform apparently gets more engagement by giving trolls a soapbox. And now abusive behavior accounts for the vast majority of government complaints the company receives.
While people in popular tourist destinations have increasingly been asking what happens to local communities and neighborhoods if you throw open the door to short term rental opportunism without considering the impact on long-term residents and rents.
You still won’t read anything about those downsides in Airbnb’s marketing, though.
And what about the people who fought for better background checks for the self-employed contractors that were being placed in positions of trust on ride-hailing platforms just because it lowered the barrier to faster business expansion if they didn’t have to run fingerprint checks.
Do those people feel vindicated now that Uber is facing regulatory backlash in London over safety and corporate responsibility issues as well as a class action lawsuit in the US alleging it endangered thousands of female passengers?
Or do they just feel really, really angry?
Whose fault is it that software has been given such a free ride to eat the world no matter the wider human and societal costs?
It’s especially egregious when you consider that just a tiny bit of critical thought could have helped steer off so many of these bad outcomes.
A little more critical thinking, for example, and it would have been obvious that requiring tech platforms to disclose who’s paying for digital political ads is a good idea. TV and print ads already do it. Why on earth should digital ads be any different?
Had that rule been in place last year, Russian agents would at least have had to be a bit more creative about their election disruption. As it was they were able to pay in Rubles — and using their known ‘troll farm’ name.
It beggars belief how the power of tech platforms has passed under the political radar for so long. And likely speaks to how tech illiterate so many politicians still are.
But again, they’re waking up. And boy is it a rude awakening.
Critical analysis of technologies to consider their wider impacts — on politics, on relationships, on emotional and mental wellbeing, on local and global environments — is what’s been sorely lacking in the tech narrative for years.
So really it’s hardly surprising that civic and societal considerations have been systematically de-prioritized by tech algorithms and omitted from the one-sided conversations technologists love to have.
But maybe the backlash is finally coming.
And instead of mindless cheerleading accompanying every startup pitch we’ll get a lot more Bodega fury wake-up calls.
Certainly we will if tech entrepreneurs keep making ‘disruption’ a clarion call for destruction and exploitation.
So founders, ask yourselves this: What might break because of what I’m trying to make?
And then: What am I going to do about it?

Featured Image: Arielle Calderon/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE



0
SHARES






























		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'organic-thumbnails-a',
			container: 'taboola-organic-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Organic Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});
	




		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'thumbnails-e',
			container: 'taboola-sponsored-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Sponsored Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});




Well, it’s over $9,000.
Even as you recoup from attempting to explain Bitcoin to your family over the Thanksgiving dinner table, the value of the cryptocurrency is growing at an increasingly hefty pace. As of the time of this writing, the value of a single Bitcoin was above $9,143, climbing nearly 6 points in the past 24 hours.
At a certain point, news of clearing these incremental price hurdles are going to get old, but given the increasing speed in which Bitcoin prices are knocking through these barriers and hitting all-time-highs, it seems relevant to chronicle the march towards $10,000 at least.
The cryptocurrency currently has a market cap north of $152 billion.
via coinmarketcap.com
My colleague Fitz Tepper said the case for Bitcoin at $10k was pretty strong by year’s end when it hit $8,000 just six days ago, but at this rate perhaps its more relevant to wonder how close to $15k the cryptocurrency will get in 2017 before the rate of investment at least cools.


You know everybody loves Tesla-the-company. But did you know that a whole lot of smart people hate Tesla-the-business? “From a return-on-investment-capital standpoint, Tesla is a catastrophe.” “The electric-car maker has been burning money at a clip of about $8,000 a minute (or $480,000 an hour.)” “Tesla is losing a massive amount of money with no competition, and yet massive competition is coming.”
Jim Chanos summarized all of the reasons why nicely: “If you wouldn’t be short a multi-billion-dollar loss-making enterprise in a cyclical business, with a leveraged balance sheet, questionable accounting, every executive leaving, run by a CEO with a questionable relationship with the truth, what would you be short? It sort of ticks all the boxes.” A lot of people think bankruptcy looms in Tesla’s future. Of course, Tesla bears have been saying this for years, and they’ve consistently been wrong — but this time, are they right?
Maybe; maybe not. Either way, a far more interesting question, if (like me) you have no financial interest in the business’s success or failure, is: does it matter?
I’m entirely serious. We tend to assume that a company’s purpose is to make money for its shareholders, or at least “not go bankrupt,” because money is how we measure success. And this is in fact true of most companies. But it is not true of Tesla. “When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure,” and this is as true of money as it is of any other measure. The purpose of Tesla is not to make money; it is to pioneer fleets of smart mass-market electric cars, and the infrastructure to support them, and battery technology which is not limited to cars. Making money is ancillary.
And whether or not they are making money, they are succeeding at their purpose. They are building the world’s largest factory — in fact, the world’s largest building; it’s still under construction, but parts of it are already up and running. They all but own the luxury electric car market, and are on course to dominate the mass market as well, while also manufacturing power packs.
I’m sure Elon Musk would like to do this while turning a sweet profit. Which is of course also, technically, his fiduciary duty. But if he fails to do so, is that really so tragic? For those of us who aren’t shareholders or bondholders, I mean. (Don’t you worry about Elon, he won’t be missing any meals.)
Maybe it wasn’t even possible to do so — in which case Musk will have used the capital markets to essentially subsidize Tesla with free money. (And, interestingly, open-source the resulting patents.) In which case, you know what, more power to him for managing to fund a loss-making investment in what is not so much a car company as it is infrastructure for our shared future.
After all, even if Tesla stock goes to zero, and its bonds default to pennies-on-the-dollar, its factories and software repositories and human capital will all be there, and no Chapter 11 court or committee will be blind to the fact that they’re worth far more as a coherent unit than they would be as separate assets. The analogy I like to draw is that of the Channel Tunnel, which was privately dug and built, and a complete financial debacle for its investors — “a wonderful thing from which we’ve all benefited, apart from the people who paid for it to be built who lost substantially all their money.”
That quote may yet apply to Tesla. Does it sound unfair to stockholders and bondholders? Not at all: this is capitalism in action, you pays your money and you takes your chances. But if you’re not a stockholder, and not a bondholder, maybe don’t worry so much about headlines screaming about Tesla’s financial unviability. This time, for once, the rest of us win either way.


Being the richest man in the world wasn’t enough.
After Amazon shares climbed on Black Friday, founder and CEO Jeff Bezos saw his net worth rise to $100.3 billion, according to Bloomberg estimates.
Amazon’s stock has soared this year and Bezos has benefited to the tune of $32.6 billion. Yes, that’s the amount he has earned in 2017 alone.
So what’s he going to do with all that money?
Bezos wants suggestions. Over the summer, he tweeted a “request for ideas.” He said he wants his “philanthropic activity to be helping people in the here and now- short term- at the intersection of urgent need and lasting impact.”


Request for ideas… pic.twitter.com/j6D68mhseL
— Jeff Bezos (@JeffBezos) June 15, 2017



It isn’t the first time someone reached the unfathomable 12-figure milestone. Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates hit the mark in 1999.
Gates has since started The Giving Pledge alongside investor Warren Buffett, a promise to give away at least half of his fortune to charitable endeavors. He has also launched the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which aims to reduce poverty globally.
Bezos eclipsed Gates to become the world’s richest person last month. Buffett is presently estimated to be the third-richest at $78.9 billion.
Amazon has seen its stock rise this year as it continues to convince investors that it will carve out an even bigger lead in e-commerce. The company has also seen success in some of its hardware devices like voice-assistant Alexa.
Amazon has additionally seen growth in its cloud services business, Amazon Web Services (AWS) and is making new bets in a range of other verticals. Among them is a bet on groceries, with its purchase of Whole Foods earlier this year.

Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images


Three years and seven phones later, it’s hard to argue with OnePlus’s methods. That’s not to say it hasn’t made its share of missteps along the way (it definitely has), but the company has produced quality phones at affordable prices basically since day one.
OnePlus’s whole “never settle” tagline is less about offering up handsets that live on the bleeding edge than it is giving smartphone buyers the bet bang for their buck. It’s an increasingly important service as flagships start to push right up against the $1,000 mark.
User feedback has always been an important piece of OnePlus’s business model. The company fostered initial interest through an activity message board and an invite-only system, and much of that connection appears to still be intact, seven phones in. The company didn’t rush to include any features on the 5T — many like Portrait Mode and the 18:9 aspect ratio have already been a staple in flagship smartphones for six months or a year.
The company makes no bones about waiting to add features, nor does its rush to drop them for the sake of future-proofing. Case in point, the headphone jack. After a Twitter poll from co-founder Carl Pei found that fans overwhelmingly wanted the headphone jack to stick around, the company’s phones have continued to support the port.
The result, in the case of the OnePlus 5T, is a phone that ticks just about all of the necessary boxes for most Android users. While it’s true that the handset won’t elicit the same sort of high-end phone envy as the latest handsets from companies like Samsung, the 5T is a utilitarian device in the best possible way. It doesn’t push any limits or break any ground, but it offers premium or near-premium specs in a nice package for an accessible starting price of $499 — roughly half of what that shiny new iPhone will cost you.
Utilitarian unibody

It’s clear at first sight that we’re not dealing with anything too fancy here. There’s none of the flash of Samsung Galaxy or iPhone X in the 5T’s design. It’s sturdy though, and still pretty fetching, with an aluminum unibody that still hasn’t gone out of style, as much as bigger handset makers rush each year to one-up it.
The unit we got is “midnight black,” a pretty apt name for a handset with no color accents to break up the darkness. Of course, OnePlus always offers up a zillion different cases to dress the thing up — and add a little protection. Though, keep in mind, unlike most other flagships, there’s no waterproofing on-board — so the company remains a bit behind on that sensible trend.
And while the display has stretched out toward the sides and top, it’s not quite the edge-to-edge offered on higher-end flagships. Though the company did use this generation to do away with the home button like much of the competition, moving the fingerprint reader to the back of the device, and introducing face unlock in the process. The company’s managed to cram a six-inch screen into a moderately sized footprint.
And it’s a lovely display at that. The company opted for a Samsung-designed OLED. It really pops, with bright colors and not any of the drab muddying you’ll find on Google’s somewhat ill-fated Pixel 2 screen. It’s yet another element that belies the product’s totally reasonable price tag.
Camera ready

Like much the rest of the phone, the camera system is less rethinking than refinement. The dual rear-facing cameras are intact — kind of, sort of. Which is to say, the main lens remains unchanged, but the second, optical zoom has been swapped out in favor of one that does better in low light. That means this is one spot where OnePlus will, in fact, make you settle. Getting in tighter on an image means using digital zoom, which, in turn, means a degraded image.
It’s a bummer, but life, as they say is full of compromise. If you’re really missing it this time out, consider buying an Olioclip or some other third-party exterior clip-on lens. Personally, I think the company made the right call here. The low-light performance has been noticeably improved, and I suspect that impacts more users on a day to day basis, cutting out a lot of the noise you get when not shooting a photo in perfect daylight conditions.
Also new is Portrait Mode — another one of those features you’ve been seeing on flagships for a while now. The OnePlus 5 had the feature earlier this year, but the results were pretty widely panned. The 5T’s version is more subtle and, as a result, better. It’s still not quite on par with the highest-end flagships, but does a solid job mimicking the bokeh effect and highlighting its subjects.
Interior design

The 5T’s got a Snapdragon 835, just like its predecessor — a chipset that makes it competitive with other flagships. The handset handle tasks like a champ. The standard 6GB of RAM should be plenty for most users, but another $60 will bump that up to 8GB, and will double the 64GB of storage to 128GB. It’s worth considering, as there’s no expandable storage here, and because, hey, it’s still a pretty good deal.
The battery’s the same 3,300 mAh you’ll find in its predecessor, coupled with the company’s own super-quick Dash Charging tech. You should be able to get a day’s worth of use easy on a single charge, and can go from zero to full in about an hour.
The best deal in smartphones

It’s true that the 5T is mostly a refinement over its predecessor — but that’s to be expected, given the fact that it’s only been about six months since the OnePlus 5 hit the market. And besides, that was a great phone that’s been made even better. Sure, the 5T isn’t for those who need a phone to impress the neighbors, but you’re certainly not going to find a better deal for the price.
And given all of the stumbles companies like Google and Samsung have had attempting to stay on the bleeding edge, there’s also something to be said for not being too eager to be the first one to embrace a technology — or drop a headphone jack.


In May, when the FCC released an early draft of its plan to undo 2015’s strong net neutrality rules, I pointed out that its case rests almost entirely on a deeply incorrect definition of how the internet works. There can be no mistake now that this misrepresentation is deliberate; the agency has reiterated it in even stronger terms in the final draft of the proposal.
I’m not going to go into great detail on it (my earlier post spells it out) but the basic problem is this: broadband has to be defined as either an information service or telecommunications service. The first is “the offering of a capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing, retrieving, utilizing, or making available information,” while the second is “the transmission, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the user’s choosing, without change in the form or content of the information as sent and received.”
 
Related Articles
Commission Impossible: How and why the FCC created net neutrality
The FCC's craven net neutrality vote announcement makes no mention of the 22 million comments filed
New York attorney general slams the FCC for ignoring net neutrality comments investigation


It’s important because the two things are regulated very differently — the FCC has much greater power over telecommunications services, under the “Title II” authority that internet service providers are so afraid of.
While it’s certainly true that ISPs do in some ways store and generate data on behalf of the user, usually as part of managing their networks, it’s equally certain that their primary purpose is to transmit data between the user and points of his or her choosing. Consequently, broadband should be classified as a telecommunications service.
But don’t take my word for it. The FCC made the argument for me in its 2015 order, citing many sources of its own in support of this fact. This excellent primer produced by the EFF and nearly 200 experts explains basically from first principles how the internet works and why it should be defined as telecommunications. There are big names on the list, but it seems clear that even the garden variety experts understand this much more clearly than the FCC does (or pretends to).
The FCC dismisses these scholars and founding technologists of the internet in a footnote, describing itself as “unpersuaded” that the internet works the way they insist it does. Meanwhile, the proposal repeatedly and unquestioningly cites the comments of ISPs claiming that something as simple as caching data magically exempts them from being telecommunication services:
Just trust them — after all, it’s not like they have a horse in this race.
The resulting definition of broadband as enabling users to generate, store, transform, and process their data is absurd. It is, as the Internet Engineers comment points out, like saying your phone is a pizzeria because you can use it to order a pizza. It is like saying that because you build a road, you are also building all the businesses along that road.
It is edge providers like Wikipedia, Dropbox, and even simple websites like TechCrunch that provide the services users request; it is ISPs that carry that data, with no change in form, between users and those edge providers. The FCC rejects this fundamental idea and substitutes a convenient fiction that upholds its current ambition to reclassify broadband. There is a semblance of plausibility to all this, but only because of precedents set in times when the internet looked very different.
This may be their downfall. Because the entire proposal is predicated on this spurious and outdated definition, to remove it causes the rest to crumble. Without reclassification there is no rollback of net neutrality. There is hope here: the FCC’s argument (which is to say, the broadband industry’s argument) already failed in court and may do so again. Here’s hoping.


Joanna Glasner
Contributor



Joanna Glasner is a reporter for Crunchbase.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Not a minimalist? Startups will gladly store, manage and deliver your items
The state of the unicorn



As VC brands go, Rothenberg Ventures has seen better days.
The firm built up a reputation as an up-and-coming early-stage investor a few years ago, based on bold bets on virtual reality, a flashy marketing strategy and its well-connected namesake and founder, Mike Rothenberg. Between 2012 and 2016, the San Francisco firm participated in funding rounds for more than 100 early-stage companies, commonly investing alongside top-tier VCs.
But Silicon Valley soured on Rothenberg Ventures last year, amid charges that its founder spent beyond his means, failed to pay staff and misappropriated investor funds for a side project. Lawsuits ensued, along with a name change (since changed back), an SEC investigation and a lot of unflattering profiles casting the now 33-year-old Rothenberg as a sort of modern-day Gatsby.
So it hasn’t been a good year for Mike Rothenberg. But what about the Rothenberg Ventures portfolio?
In an effort to see how firm- and investor-specific scandals might affect portfolio companies, Crunchbase News took a look at the performance of Rothenberg Ventures-backed startups. We looked at exits and up rounds, as well as closures and apparent down rounds.
Overall, the Rothenberg portfolio seems to be doing well. It’s seen multiple exits at what appear to be favorable returns, a lot of up rounds and not too many high-profile flops. It probably helps that most portfolio companies had a number of other investors. The vast majority that raised cash from Rothenberg Ventures did so as part of a larger investor syndicate, and those startups weren’t relying on the firm as a major provider of follow-on capital.
With that in mind, here’s what the portfolio looks like now.
Exits
At least 13 Rothenberg-backed companies have gone on to exit, according to Crunchbase data. Point-of-sale systems company Revel Systems sold a majority stake to private equity firm Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe.
All of the exits were through acquisitions, and most of those exits involved early-stage companies selling for undisclosed amounts. Typically, Rothenberg was a non-lead investor in a syndicate for these startups. Most had raised a few million dollars prior to exit, though a few had raised larger rounds.
A couple of acquisitions involved companies that had already stopped offering their services.
 
Generally speaking, if an early-stage company that is not known to be in distress gets acquired, backers make money. This seems to be the pattern for most of the Rothenberg portfolio company acquisitions to date. The list includes Sweet IQ Analytics, a provider of local search tools that sold to Gannett; Payable, a provider of software for paying contractors that sold to Stripe; and Propeller, a platform for updating apps that sold to Palantir. One of the few deals with a disclosed price was a celebrity-heavy investment, Hello Giggles, a women-focused online media startup that sold to Time for $30 million in 2015. (You can view the full list of acquisitions here.)
A couple of acquisitions involved companies that had already stopped offering their services. AltspaceVR, a social VR platform closed over the summer, was snapped up by Microsoft in October. And Luxe, a valet parking app, had also shut down before it sold to Volvo in September.
So far, the firm’s big bets on virtual reality have yet to produce lucrative exits, though some have raised follow-on rounds, which we’ll look at next.
Up rounds
Seed investments take a long time to mature, so it’s not surprising to see the majority of viable portfolio companies still in follow-on fundraising mode.
To date, the Rothenberg portfolio has a number of companies that have gone on to raise much larger follow-on rounds, presumably at marked-up valuations. We assembled 30 of them here.
The portfolio includes some unicorns. Mike Rothenberg said there are three companies in the portfolio that have surpassed the $1 billion valuation mark, but did not name them. It seems clear looking at the firm’s list of investments that one unicorn is RobinHood, the zero-commission platform for buying stocks, which raised its last round at a $1.3 billion valuation. The firm is a non-lead investor and one of at least 28 known backers.
 The biggest exits and biggest flops are probably yet to come.
 
It’s unclear whether SpaceX counts as one of the unicorns. Rothenberg invested in a 2012 Series D, but SpaceX already had a multi-billion dollar valuation at the time, (although its value has since multiplied). We couldn’t identify an additional potential unicorn, so probably we either missed it or it’s a company whose billion-plus private valuation hasn’t been publicly disclosed.
There were also a number of companies that raised early-stage funding from Rothenberg that have secured significantly larger follow-on rounds in the past couple of years. Some of the bigger ones are Patreon, an online platform for sponsoring artists; 8i, a VR software developer; Andela, a tool for finding African tech talent; and Rinse, a garment care service.
Flops
Most seed-stage startup efforts don’t end in success, so we’d expect that any firm operating this stage for a few years would have some flops.
Rothenberg is no exception. Crunchbase turned up a few portfolio investments that raised small sums a few years ago and have since closed, like Butter, an app for making new friends; Buttercoin, a Bitcoin startup; and Bloodhound, an app for managing leads at trade shows. There are certainly more, though putting together a full list is challenging, as many startups prefer to quietly fade away rather than officially announce their closure. Also, seed investors commonly don’t disclose all their micro-investments, particularly for stealth startups.
The firm’s most high-profile potentially troubled asset is River Studios, a virtual reality production house Rothenberg launched in 2015. The investment came under fire last year, with Wired and other publications reporting that River hadn’t been properly green-lit by investors, lost money and was behind on rent.
The current status of River Studios is unclear. Its blog hasn’t been updated since mid-2016, and there are no open positions listed on its site.
Takeaway
Overall, the takeaway seems to be that Rothenberg Ventures’ downturn hasn’t extended to its portfolio companies in a meaningful way.
The firm’s performance seems similar to those of other funds of a similar vintage and approach. That is, it’s largely what we would expect from a well-connected Silicon Valley angel or VC participating in large investor syndicates for hot seed and early-stage startups in hot sectors. Rothenberg was somewhat of an outlier in its heavy focus on virtual reality, a sector that continues to attract reasonable funding but has yet to produce fat exits. VR hasn’t produced any big outcomes for Rothenberg, either — yet.
Given the long-time horizons that seed-stage startups require to mature, however, it’s still early innings for the bulk of the portfolio. The biggest exits and biggest flops are probably yet to come.

Featured Image: iStockPhoto / honglouwawa


Smartphones are inarguably an addictive class of devices, and not just because they put an endless font of information at your fingertips. The very experience of holding the phone and touching it is itself associated with that pleasure — so much so that you might wish you were doing it even when you don’t want to actually use the phone. That’s when you need one of Klemens Schillinger’s “Substitute Phones.”
The devices, if you can really call them that, are inert pieces of heavy, high-quality plastic in which are embedded stone beads that let you run your fingers along them to simulate various gestures. The beads roll in place, giving a similar frictionless feel but (I presume) also a pleasant little finger massage.
Whether you’re a compulsive swiper, scroller, or zoomer, there’s a model just for you.
“The object, which some of us describe as a prosthesis, is reduced to nothing but the motions,” explains Schillinger’s description of the… object. “This calming limitation offers help for smartphone addicts to cope with withdrawal symptoms. The object as a therapeutic approach.”
Speaking to Dezeen, Schillinger added that he was inspired not only by the disturbing frequency with which he and others tend to consult their smart devices (and for no particular reason, usually), but also the writer Umberto Eco, who when attempting to stop smoking his pipe, substituted a simple stick.
“It was the same thing,” he said, “but without the nicotine, just the physical stimulation. I remembered this and thought to make phones that would provide the physical stimulation but not the connectivity.
The Substitute Phone is the second in a series Schillinger is working on relating to our relationships with our devices. The first is the Offline Lamp, which only turns on when you put a smartphone-size object inside its drawer. Both were created for Vienna’s Design Week earlier this year.


There’s another battle brewing in Washington, though it may not matter all that much to the many venture-backed online lending companies that sprang into existence in the wake of post-crisis regulations.
At the center of this particular drama: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was established under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to protect consumers from predatory lenders and has become a potent consumer watchdog in the ensuing years, with wide power to battle abuses.
Just last week, the CFPB filed a lawsuit against Think Finance — a so-called financial technology provider that’s accused in multiple federal lawsuits of being a predatory lender — for allegedly collecting payments on debts consumers did not owe. (Sequoia Capital had owned nearly 30 percent of Think at one point. Elevate Credit, which provides loans to people with low credit scores and went public in April, was part of Think until it was spun off in 2014.)
Republican lawmakers have long sought to reduce the CFPB’s oversight. Now dueling appointments put its immediate future in question. Last night, President Trump named his budget director, Mick Mulvaney, as acting director of the agency hours after its current leader, Obama-appointed Richard Cordray, announced he would leave the job.
Mulvaney once characterized the consumer protection bureau as a “sad, sick joke,” as notes the New York Times, and he was widely expected to try and unwind Cordray’s legacy.
To counter the administration’s plans, on his way out the door, Cordray named his chief of staff, Leandra English, as the agency’s deputy director.
Under the law, the appointment should make English the agency’s acting director, though the White House says that Mulvaney plans to show up at the CFSB Monday morning anyway. The White House further says Mulvaney will keep his current job as head of the Office of Management and Budget.
If the Trump administration follows through on its threats, Mulvaney will lead both agencies until a permanent head of CFPB is chosen and confirmed by the Senate. The offices of the OMB and the CFPB are across the street from each other in Washington.
Senator Elizabeth Warren, who first proposed the creation of the CFPB as a Harvard law professor in 2007, isn’t going to let that happen quietly. She has already written in favor of Cordray’s decision on Facebook, saying that “President Trump can’t override that. He can nominate the next CFPB Director — but until that nominee is confirmed by the Senate, Leandra English is the Acting Director under the Dodd-Frank Act.”
You can imagine plenty of others will have weighed in by the time this weekend comes to a close.
Still, this fight may not matter all that much to online lenders. At least, they’ll be far more impacted — helped, really — by a different, recent development relating to the CFPB. Specifically, landmark financial regulation that was designed to restricts banks and credit card companies from imposing mandatory arbitration on their customers as a means to resolve disputes was killed last month in a tie-breaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence.
The rule, which had been praised by consumer advocates as giving people more power to fight industry abuses — like the creation of those millions of unauthorized accounts at Wells Fargo — was unveiled in July after years of work by the CSFB. It would have allowed Americans to file class-action suits against banks instead of being forced in many cases into private arbitration.
As we’ve noted in past stories about arbitration — which is also widely used by technology companies to keep disgruntled employees from publicly airing allegations of wrongdoing — the determinations of an arbitrator are binding. Consumer advocates and employment attorneys say that most decisions favor the company, too.

Featured Image: Luke Sharrett/Bloomberg/Getty Images


Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.adSetOthAT('kventryid=1568952;kvcmsid=tcr:1568952;kvugc=0;kvsubj=982665:978896:980877:981907:6371511:983462:981959:6376056:978369:978826:979133:979377;kvent=3597624:3993574:4062164:4166750:6225793');
			window.htmlAdWH('93484904', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDiv2c5ec6354c');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




Here’s a scary thought for decision makers inside large organizations grappling with digital transformation. You can actually be innovative and have mechanisms in place to react to disruptive forces, and still get steamrolled as layers of internal management turn your creative ideas into something unrecognizable.
Kodak is a company that’s always held up as the poster child for an organization that missed the digital boat in order to protect its existing businesses. Tricia Wang, a technology ethnographer, who studies organizational and user behavior, says her research reveals a different narrative. In her view, the big digital ideas weren’t simply rejected by short-sighted Kodak execs. Instead, she says, the real story is much more complicated involving big company decision making processes.
It’s clear by now that companies recognize that digital transformation or modernization or whatever you choose to call it is a very real concept that can help stave off disruption. Kodak was certainly an early victim of digital disruption, but Wang says the company was not simply passive or unaware.
Rather, she sees a company that couldn’t take that idea and fully understand the implications of digital transformation. Maybe it was too soon to see, but it was at least partly because the decision makers wanted to build a digital product in the image of what came before instead of what was coming next.
The Kodak digital myth
The story goes that Kodak’s R&D team invented the first digital camera way back in 1974, then moth-balled it before building the first modern digital SLR camera in 1989. Some folks might have recognized the potential of that second discovery, but upper management rejects it, seeing the new device as a direct threat to its core film and developing business. As a result they never really take the idea seriously and fail to see the digital future that is just around there corner.
Eastman Kodak headquarters in Rochester, NY Photo: Brady Dillsworth/Bloomberg via Getty Images
This example illustrates a classic case of disruption as defined by Clayton Christensen in his seminal book The Innovator’s Dilemma. But Wang sees a different cautionary tale here.
She believes the evidence suggests that, even though Kodak might not have understood the full extent of the digital future in front of it, neither did it completely cast it aside in a fit of blind self-interest..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Wang describes a scenario of decision making, which didn’t ignore disruption, but still resulted in the same unhappy outcome: bankruptcy and the shrinking of a once great industrial giant.
Finding the next (wrong) idea
It’s fair to say that Kodak never fully embraced the digital camera. Instead, it looked at ways it could somehow fit digital into its company world view. Wang points out that computer-based photo editing made its debut around the same time that Kodak invented that modern digital camera. “The first digital photo editing software was introduced in 1988, and the Macintosh computer on which it ran was hinting strongly towards a different kind of future for digital capture and editing,” she said.
“The patents that Kodak developed around digital photography — especially the 1989 [digital camera] patent — could have given Kodak a huge leg up in meeting the emerging consumer needs around digital photography.”

Yet Kodak seems to have missed all the signals coming from the marketplace. “The market was captured by other competitors without the technological advantage or the IP [that Kodak had] — for example, the Casio QV-10, which was introduced in 1995, actually saw where the future of point-and-shoot digital photography was going, and pioneered the onboard LCD display that can be seen as a direct precursor to the smartphone, which came along equipped with cameras as early as 2000,” she explained
They never saw the problem as converting their customers to a digital world, but rather as finding a way to increase their brick and mortar presence. That ended up taking the form of a kiosk that sort of answered a digital user need of printing out hard copies from the digital system. It wasn’t a terrible idea, but it completely missed the real digital mark.
Kodak digital picture printing kiosk. Photo: Bloomberg/Getty
“This really big idea [the digital camera], got shoehorned into a footnote of a footnote of a footnote as it traveled up the chain of command. Kodak discovered something new, but their decision making process didn’t account for it,” Wang explained. They had the right insight, but the way they invested in it had nothing to do with the original idea of a fully digital world.
To be fair, Wang points out that the kiosk wasn’t the only thing the company did with its digital patents, but it was a particularly telling one. “It illustrates very clearly how corporations can miss out on broad changes in consumer behavior and instead focus on incremental operational improvements to their existing businesses,” Wang said.
Talking to your customers
She says that we have become so indoctrinated to be data-driven that we have forgotten the human element. You have to understand how customers are using whatever you’ve created and their real human feelings about it. While there is an element of the Steve Jobs theory that customers won’t know what they want until we show them, that’s only part of it. No company can really know what customers need until you ask, even within the context of true innovation.
Tricia Wang Photo: Ted Talks
What’s more, even the holy grail of data can only take you so far. As we have seen, collecting that data and understanding the needs of the customer at the point of contact often involves a huge disconnect. If you doubt that, think about the time a United passenger was dragged off a plane last spring. United might have had a history of every interaction with that customer in their databases, but it didn’t do them a lick of good when it mattered at the point of contact with that flight crew.
For Wang that means, companies have to look beyond tools and technology. They need to get the technical people who understand the technology to learn how to talk to the non-technical folks in sales, marketing, customer service and other parts of the company that actually touch the customers. She says the problem is that we have these tools and dashboards, but that’s doesn’t tell you everything there is to know without customer contact.
If you want to avoid becoming Kodak (or United), it starts with letting the technologists talk to the managers, executives and other employees and building a common understanding and language internally among employees, then externally with customers.
Otherwise you could end up with a kiosk instead of an iPhone and nobody wants that.

Featured Image: Roy Scott/Getty Images



0
SHARES






























		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'organic-thumbnails-a',
			container: 'taboola-organic-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Organic Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});
	




		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'thumbnails-e',
			container: 'taboola-sponsored-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Sponsored Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});




It’s one of the biggest shopping days of the year, but retail giant Macy’s can’t get its credit card processors to work.
Customers have been waiting in lines across the United States to buy discounted items, only to find out that the machines won’t take credit cards or gift cards. Some Bloomingdale’s stores, which are owned by Macy’s, may have also been impacted.
Update: The company says it has resolved the issue and has provided the following statement.
“We have fully resolved today’s system issues. We highly value our customers and sincerely apologize for any inconvenience today’s system slowdown may have caused during their shopping experience. The delays we experienced this afternoon were due to a capacity-related issue that caused some transactions to take longer to process. We do not anticipate any additional delays.”
Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, has become a shopping holiday, with retailers offering heavily discounted items. Macy’s even kicks off the occasion with its big annual Thanksgiving parade in New York, which is televised throughout the country.
The company also experienced an outage on its website during Black Friday 2016. Holiday sales play a significant role in the company’s quarterly earnings and Macy’s disappointed Wall Street last season.
Its stock is trading at less than half of what it was a year ago and about one-third of what it was three years ago. The company presently has a market cap of $6.4 billion.

Last year, Terry Lundgren, who was Macy’s CEO at the time, said in an interview with Fortune that the company started opening its stores earlier on Thanksgiving Day because of industry pressure. “If you’re not open and your competitors are, there’s going to be a number of customers who simply will go shop elsewhere,” he told Fortune. “You’ll never recover that sale.”
Lundgren is now executive chairman.  Jeff Gennette took on the role of CEO in March, after being promoted from president.
Gennette told CNBC earlier Friday that Black Friday was off to a stronger start than last year.He said that the company had fewer discounts this year, which would lead to better profit margins.
According to the National Retail Federation, 164 million Americans planned to shop during Thanksgiving weekend.

Featured Image: Alexander Scheuber/Getty Images




Pokémon Go creator Niantic has raised a new $200 million in funding, reports The Wall Street Journal. The Series B raise was led by Spark Capital, and includes participation from Founders Fund, Meritech, Javelin Venture Capital, You & Mr. Jones and NetEase, Inc. Spark partner Megan Quinn is also joining Niantic’s board as part of the new financing deal.
Niantic is known for its augmented reality games, which began with the multiplayer sci-fi spy game Ingress, created during the company’s time as an internal startup founded within Google. In 2015, Niantic spun out as its own entity, and it launched Pokémon Go in July, 2016. The Pokémon AR game managed to attract massive interest at launch, resulting in huge real-world gatherings of players thanks to its mechanic of incentivizing players to move around in the real world to achieve in-game success.
In its Series A round, Niantic raised $30 million in funding from an investor group including Alsop Loui Partners, Google, Nintendo, The Pokémon Company, Cyan and Scott Banister and others. Earlier this year, Niantic announced its first acquisition, of mobile social network developer Evertoon, and it also recently made official its intent to build a mobile AR game based on Harry Potter.
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite is due out sometime next year, and will be developed in partnership with Warner Bros. Interactive.


The final figures for Black Friday online sales are in, and it’s another record-breaking day e-commerce in the U.S. Adobe says that shoppers spent $5.03 billion online in a race for bargains for themselves and to gift to others.
The figures come the day after Thanksgiving racked up a record $2.87 billion in online sales Adobe analyses 80 percent of online transactions to the 100 largest web retailers in the country to come up with its numbers. The final figure surpassed its own estimates, where were for $5 billion of sales.
“Shoppers capitalized on deep discounts on Black Friday, resulting in the largest Black Friday online ever,” said Taylor Schreiner, director of Adobe Digital Insights. “Conversion rates across all devices saw double digit growth throughout Black Friday.”
Schreiner said that “Small Business Saturday” — the latest invented shopping holiday for the season — is seeing online sales “trending slightly lower than expected.” However, in a month of “exponential growth”, Cyber Monday is projected to be “the largest US online shopping day in history”, with an eye-watering $6.6 billion in sales.
Still, it’s a drop in the ocean for single-day sales when compared to Alibaba’s $25 billion in sales during Singles Day this year.
The final totals are a rise of 16.9 percent compared to Black Friday 2016, and also show that online sales slowed down slightly throughout the day. At 7am Pacific, when sales were at $640 million, they were up 18.4 percent compared to a year ago. This would make sense, since people flock to physical stores to catch bargains there as the day went on.
“Many retailers are still focused on in-store sales for Black Friday,” said Linda Bustos, director of merchant strategy at e-commerce platform provider Workarea (which also works with hundreds of online retailers). “The physical retailer’s star is still Black Friday, but the consumer behavior is smoothing out because consumers are opting out of the physical hustle and bustle and moving more toward what’s easier: shopping on a couch.”
While we are collectively seeing a larger volume of sales, on a per-sale level things are actually holding steady. The average order value was $135, which is up just 0.9 percent over 2016’s Black Friday average.
The bigger shift is in how we are shopping. Purchases made on mobile devices have so far totalled a record 36.9 percent of all sales, and 54.3 percent of all site visits. This works out to just under $2 billion in sales. Smartphones accounted for 44.6% of visits and 26.0% of revenue.
“The big story this holiday season is in mobile shopping. Retailers know this is where the audience is now and are delivering better experiences. On both Thanksgiving and Black Friday, the gap between mobile traffic and revenue is closing,” said Mickey Mericle, VP of marketing and customer insights at Adobe. “Shoppers looking for discounts are getting better at using smartphones to quickly close the deal, and we are seeing better mobile conversion this season at over ten percent growth.”
Tablets, and the story of their decline in importance in shopping — especially as smartphones have gotten faster, easier to use and bigger — is an interesting trend. It’s also been going on for a while now, and if you could use its performance in e-commerce as a track for how much they are used overall, the picture is not that bright for tablets.
Another stat that should not come to a surprise to those who are familiar with consumer behavior on mobile concerns the platforms that are being used. iOS average order value continues to be higher than Android order value, and is also growing more: respectively it’s $127 (up 5.1 percent on 2016) and $112 for Android (up 1.5 percent). iOS also has a higher conversion rate of visits to purchases: 3.2 percent (up 10 percent YoY) versus 3.1 percent (up 8.1 percent YoY).
Collectively, e-commerce has generated $33.26 billion in sales so far in November (up 17 percent year-on-year), Adobe said.
Black Friday — and the subsequent pool of days that has spread around it — are significant for consumers because they get a chance to buy items at a deep discount to their normal prices. (Unless you subscribe to the school of “Hey, if you don’t buy anything, you get a 100 percent discount!”)
They are significant for online retailers because they set the pace and are a bellwether for the rest of November and December, traditionally the most important time of the year for their businesses to rack up holiday sales.
In terms of what is being purchased, Adobe highlights electronics like TVs and computers as two big sellers today, as are the Chromecast and Roku. Other top products it said include Apple AirPods, the Sony Playstation VR, the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One X.
Updated with final Black Friday figures. We’ll add more as we find them.

Featured Image: Alexander Scheuber/Getty Images


Sunny Dhillon
Contributor



Sunny Dhillon is a partner at Signia Venture Partners.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Mixed reality arcades are the next big market opportunity — but not for VCs
Virtual reality in Japan



With Amazon as the 800-pound gorilla, many of my fellow investors choose to ignore e-commerce altogether. In fact, the industry hit recent lows in a number of deals and investments. But as Bonobos’ $310 million acquisition by Walmart and Stitch Fix’s IPO demonstrate, there are still plenty of exciting opportunities in this space for investors.
In my ongoing hunt for investment opportunities, I recently came across a brand that had garnered significant traction without raising a lot of capital. This traction, however, was across traditional retail channels, not the channel that mattered most to me as a venture investor — e-commerce.
Why do I value this direct to consumer channel so highly? For one, e-commerce margins are better (in the 80 percent range versus as low as 50 percent in traditional retail). But it also offers the potential for scale that retail simply can’t match. My grandfather grew his textiles business methodically, one merchant and store at a time — something I greatly admired as a child, given the grit and hustle he put into closing each sale. However, today, with the help of Facebook ads, viral videos like Dollar Shave Club’s classic ad, influencer and celebrity-driven endorsements, sales can boom overnight.
People have been shopping online for more than two decades, and we have seen a number of iconic brands originate online. Behind many of these brands are successful venture investors, such as Forerunner Ventures (Warby Parker, Glossier, Bonobos) and Maveron (Everlane, Madison Reed), as well as amazing entrepreneurs and marketers like Kal Vepuri, Divya Gugnani and Rohan Oza, who “just get” consumer branding. They know how to make something cool, at an affordable price point, and how to position their companies for big M&A when the time comes.
As these investors and individuals know, billion-dollar acquisitions come from scaling and plugging in e-commerce startups directly to help scale with the acquirer. Jet.com (Walmart), Dollar Shave Club (Unilever), Chewy.com (PetSmart) and Lazada (Alibaba) were acquisitions of talent, revenue, EBITDA, supply chain and strongly branded online brands.
This leads me to approach direct to commerce brand deals through the following three lenses.
Who are you disrupting?
Identifying problems with the incumbents is often the starting point for why a new company needs to exist. It could be an unethical or unhealthy supply chain (something Everlane has exploited well), stodgy brand imagery associating incumbents with older consumers or delivering a similar but cooler product for a cheaper price than the gross-margin laden incumbent (see Dollar Shave versus Gillette).
I also care about CACs — costs of customer acquisition. The general thinking for e-commerce businesses is that with less than 10 percent of U.S. commerce taking place online, you will eventually exhaust all potential customers for your product. Facebook and Instagram ads will only get you so far with a digital audience. Once you need to scale to those shoppers who don’t live their commercial lives online, the common approach is partnerships with traditional brick and mortar retailers.
Let’s use Casper as an example. After famously hitting $1 million in sales within a month and $100 million in its first full year of business, the mattress maker was the undisputed king of the nascent online bedding industry. Spying the masses of potential customers beyond the e-commerce realm, Casper has since partnered first with home furnishings retailer West Elm and then Target — coincidentally, after the Minneapolis retail giant tried to make them one of those billion-dollar acquisitions mentioned above. The approach appears to be paying off: Casper took in around $200 million in revenue last year, and CEO Phillip Krim suggested in the spring that they were on track to double that in 2017.
In the case of Casper, and e-commerce brands in general, customer reviews on Google and Amazon really matter. I never believed I’d buy a mattress online, thinking I’d have to test out a “durable” purchase such as a bed before trying it. My millennial shopping habits kicked in, however, and I realized I didn’t need to roll around on the bed to know it was comfortable because I trusted user reviews.
Casper disrupting the mattress industry
Finally, how you’re disrupting matters. I want to know how you’re using data to improve the e-commerce relationship. Companies such as Constructor.io power search for giant e-commerce companies and demonstrate the power of building a walled garden search box for your products. Analytics drawn from what people are searching for (e.g. products you don’t currently stock, but you should) can provide a lot of tactical insights into new or adjacent product categories that a vendor should stock.
There’s also a lot of insight to be gained from knowing which customers were successfully retargeted and for what products. If you have a retail presence, are you leveraging data that stores are gathering about customers while they’re physically in the store itself? Take RetailNext, which uses strategically placed cameras and computer vision technology to give retailers deep insights into everything that happens from the time a potential customer enters the store to the point of sale.
How much of your supply chain can you collapse by cutting out middlemen and taking your product to customers in as direct a way as possible?
Cut out middlemen like these guys
Digital-first (and sometimes digital-only) brands can benefit from nimble supply chain maneuvering. Larger, brick and mortar business is still largely conducted via salespeople working out of local shops and national distributors that cater to large businesses. E-commerce shoppers are lured away with instant comparison shopping and free delivery, on top of whatever else the digital brand may be offering.
It doesn’t matter if the new digital brands sometimes use the same factories and sourcing as the incumbents they seek to disrupt. The new company is selling a millennial-empathetic lifestyle and the incumbent is something for your parents and “old people.”
When operating as a horizontal e-commerce platform — which can absolutely be branded — think no further than Amazon Marketplace or Boxed Wholesale, one of our investments at Signia. Once customers trust the online marketplace, they will trust own-label products from the platforms themselves. This is typically highly beneficial to the platform due to the higher margins of acting as a vertically integrated supplier versus a third-party product distributor.
How brandable is the product?
Online brandability, especially on Instagram, is a must-have in order to build a successful e-commerce company today. In a previous article, I wrote about the growing importance of influencer marketing and how much brand equity matters in these campaigns: “While influencer marketing takes many different forms, there always has to be a great product, a great story, and great storytelling for the magic to be unlocked. You can’t just attach an influencer to a brand and hope for sales takeoff.”

“Offline” brandability is also an important consideration. When a D2C brand ventures into retail, part of its strategy may include partnering with an incumbent retailer with extensive foot traffic, as Casper did with West Elm and Target. Another part may involve opening retail “brand ambassador” locations. For example, the Mongolian-American luxury cashmere brand, Naadam, recently opened a New York City pop-up containing artifacts from the Mongolian nomadic lifestyle and imagery inspired by the brand’s exotic eastern roots. Glossier recently hosted a pop-up store and dinner in London with a bunch of beauty influencers. These physical IRL (in real life) events and locations can provide real-world brand experiences that further tie consumers to the predominantly digital brands they covet.
Meeting these criteria is not easy, but startups that do attract my attention and my investment dollars. Although other venture investors may beg to differ, e-commerce continues to spawn a wide range of innovative companies that offer compelling investment opportunities.

Featured Image: Pavel Ignatov/Shutterstock


Snap Inc’s stock tanked after missing revenue expectations by $30 million last quarter, so Snapchat is looking to win over businesses with immersive new ads formats. This week it introduced two new forms of ads: Promoted Stories which string together multiple Snaps into a longer-form slideshows openable from a tile on the Stories page that’s shown to everyone in a given country, and Augmented Reality Trial ads that let people play with an AR version of a product overlaid on the world around them.
Together, these new formats could make Snap’s ads less skippable and more memorable, coaxing money out of businesses hoping to make a mark on premier audience of US teens. Both Promoted Stories and AR Trial ads go a step beyond what Facebook can offer, but could soon be copied like the rest of Snapchat.
Snapchat’s ads were predominantly either single Snap ads inserted between Stories or Discover content that could easily be skipped with a single tap, or sponsored creative tools that let you try on goofy masks or project 3D mascots into the world but that didn’t offer much utility. This may have left advertisers skeptical about the lasting impact on buying behavior.
Snapchat’s new Promoted Stories tiles open multi-Snap ads
“Our advertising partners have been asking for ways to tell deeper stories on mobile” Snap’s Director of Revenue Product Peter Sellis told TechCrunch in a statement. HBO is piloting the format with Promoted Stories about why you should stay in and watch Game Of Thrones on Black Friday, while in Europe clothing brand ASOS highlights “night-out worthy looks.”
Now advertisers can string together a series of three to ten photos and videos to create a Promoted Story that auto-advances or that users can tap through to follow a detailed narrative about a brand or see multiple angles of a product. They can look like a user Story or a mini magazine-esque Publish Story like what appears in Discover, and each Snap can be swiped up to open a website, app install, or article.
These Promoted Stories are labeled “ad”, get their own preview tile, and are purchased on a full-country one-day takeover basis with users having to actively tap to view. Advertisers get back a range of analytics from preview tile impression through to conversions. Snap says it can reach 88 million people in the US with Promoted Stories, surpassing the 74 million Instagram Stories users, and approaching half as many as Facebook’s 190 million mobile audience members. For the coveted youths age 13 to 24, Snap reaches 47 million people — supposedly 9 million more than Facebook and 15 million more than Instagram’s feed.
To avoid falling into the same pit as Twitter, with its highly-skippable and unobtrusive ads, Snapchat hopes Promoted Stories will ensnare users even if they instinctively try to click past an ad’s first Snap.

Meanwhile, AR Trial Ads take Snapchat’s World Lens ads and make them functional instead of just fun. Previous World Lens ads remade your reality into a creepy Stranger Things scene or let you stick a dancing Bud Light mascot in your videos. With AR Trial ads, BMW will let you actually place its new X2 vehicle in an augmented view of the space around you, tap to change its color, and walk around it like it’s actually there. The ads can also be swiped up to view a business’ website.
“We wanted to insert ourselves in an organic way into the Snapchat environment and its users’ world. That is the most meaningful way to address our fans in a style that fits the channel” head of Digital Marketing Jörg Poggenpohl wrote to TechCrunch in a statement. A previous BMW sponsored face lens ad in Europe reached 13 million Snapchatters who played with it for an average of 24 seconds.
Snapchat’s new AR Trial ads let you play with products in augmented world
That’s the magic of these AR ads. Even if you never share the content with friends, you still get extended exposure to the brand just playing with the selfie mask or 3D objects. Actually resizing and walking around a car company’s vehicle will probably leave a bigger impact than just scrolling past some Facebook News Feed display ad. If you reshare that content in private messages or Stories, BMW gets bonus exposure to people who see the brand enmeshed with their friends’ content so they don’t just skip past it like the banners we’ve all grown numb to.
Herein lies Snapchat’s challenge and opportunity. After bloodbath earnings calls and extremely weak user growth, Snap has to figure out how to squeeze more money out of the same number of people. It added just 4.5 million users last quarter, slipping below 3% user growth for the first time ever, down from 17% before Instagram Stories launched.
If it can’t reach the most users, it has to boost average revenue per user as high as possible without completely overwhelming the Snapchat experience with ads. These new formats are a smart way to do that because you’re never forced to watch them. You can choose to tap the Promoted Stories tiles or play with the AR tools.
By offering immersive experiences users choose to dive into rather than cramming light-touch ads down people’s throats, Snap could earn enough to stabilize its businesses and cut its losses. It can’t keep incinerating over $400 million a quarter and expect to have enough cash to develop a killer augmented reality hardware device before giants like Apple invade the market.


Black Eyed Peas frontman will.i.am took heed of Steve Jobs’ “think different” but perhaps more so, he has kept it all the way 100 by being fresh and original — the core values of golden-age hip-hop. Today, the group released an augmented reality app, available on iOS and Android, to go with its graphic novel Masters of the Sun: The Zombie Chronicles.
The story, co-written by Benjamin Jackendoff and illustrated by Damion Scott over five years, follows Zulu-X who battles an ancient alien god who turns drug dealers and gangsters into zombies. The action-packed allegory is a blend of conspiracy theories, Egyptology and street smarts. The printed copy is available now.
The AR app, led by internal creative team Pasha Shapiro and Ernst Weber, make the story come to life with animated talk bubbles and voiceovers from hip-hop and R&B juggernauts Rakim, Queen Latifah, KRS One and Mary J Blige, with narration from the legendary Marvel icon Stan Lee and musical score from Academy Award winning composer Hans Zimmer. The team plans an Oculus VR partnership set for early January 2018.
What the tech industry doesn’t understand is that hip-hop at its core is DIY and all about creative freedom, like slangin’ mixtapes out the trunk.
“That’s the benefit of working the way we work. There is no freakin’ hound, there is no freakin’ limitation on what we can do and how we should go about doing it. It’s like ‘let’s figure it out,’” will.i.am tells me. “You do not put out the same ‘ol shit if you’ve been gone for six years,” says will. “You better push the boundaries or do not come out at all.”
will.i.am says we can expect at least two more announcements in 2018 hinting at a possible gamification of sorts with the ability of unlocking and collecting characters, vehicles and weapons.
The AR comic is a first for both the comic and hip-hop cultures. Did will.i.am and the BEP crew knock it out of the park this tech go-round? Will will.i.am’s for-us-by-us hip-hop mentality help or hurt future ventures in tech?
It remains to be seen, but with co-signs from various industry pillars and the enthusiastic response from Comic Con LA, it certainly is a step in the right direction.


A number of bed-in-a-box startups have taken different approaches to selling their mattresses and bed ware in the last year. Casper and Tuft and Needle, for instance, launched their own branded physical store locations.
However, Purple, a mattress startup out of Utah that recently merged with a New York shell company, took a different approach, instead striking a distribution deal with mattress retail giant Mattress Firm.
Note, Casper also has distribution deals with West Elm and Target stores.
Mattress Firm holds over 3,500 locations nationwide but Purple will selectively sell its mattresses in 13 Washington, D.C. locations, with more rollouts to follow in Austin, Texas and Sacramento,
California, depending on how the sales go in our nation’s capital.
Purple says the initial locations were chosen for market research purposes. They will be used to pilot the sale of Purple’s next generation of mattresses, including four new mattresses employing the company’s new Hyper-Elastic Polymer® technology, which, according to a company news release, is “optimized to disperse pressure and cradle the hips and shoulders
while providing excellent support.”
Thousands of Purple’s mattresses stacked up inside Purple’s 574,000 square-foot warehouse.
It’s not clear how that is different from the current mattresses but Purple has offered to let me try it out sometime and find out for myself. I’ll let you know if and when that happens.
“From the start, Purple has been resolute on providing the most comfortable and
supportive mattresses on the market,” Purple CEO Sam Bernards said. “We continue to improve our mattresses to help people feel better and reduce uncomfortable pressure using our proven sleep science, which is revolutionizing the mattress industry.
The news comes just as Black Friday deals are starting to heat up. Purple, for instance will throw in a free pillow with your purchase (while supplies last) But there are plenty of other (and better) deals to be had for those in the market.
According to popular mattress review site Sleepopolis, most other online mattress companies are offering something in the range of $100-$300 off bed-in-a-box orders if you buy today. Mattress startup Leesa is offering $125 off plus a free pillow when you order and Brooklyn Bedding (the mattress I happen to have) is offering $300 off for its Aurora mattress. Be sure and check those out and others today.


( function() {
			var func = function() {
				var iframe_form = document.getElementById('wpcom-iframe-form-e8cea1e0f15435c524d24f693349fef3-5a2a8624c6147');
				var iframe = document.getElementById('wpcom-iframe-e8cea1e0f15435c524d24f693349fef3-5a2a8624c6147');
				if ( iframe_form && iframe ) {
					iframe_form.submit();
					iframe.onload = function() {
						iframe.contentWindow.postMessage( {
							'msg_type': 'poll_size',
							'frame_id': 'wpcom-iframe-e8cea1e0f15435c524d24f693349fef3-5a2a8624c6147'
						}, window.location.protocol + '//wpcomwidgets.com' );
					}
				}

				// Autosize iframe
				var funcSizeResponse = function( e ) {
					var origin = document.createElement( 'a' );
					origin.href = e.origin;

					// Verify message origin
					if ( 'wpcomwidgets.com' !== origin.host )
						return;

					// Verify message is in a format we expect
					if ( 'object' !== typeof e.data || undefined === e.data.msg_type )
						return;

					switch ( e.data.msg_type ) {
						case 'poll_size:response':
							var iframe = document.getElementById( e.data._request.frame_id );

							if ( iframe && '' === iframe.width )
								iframe.width = '100%';
							if ( iframe && '' === iframe.height )
								iframe.height = parseInt( e.data.height );

							return;
						default:
							return;
					}
				}

				if ( 'function' === typeof window.addEventListener ) {
					window.addEventListener( 'message', funcSizeResponse, false );
				} else if ( 'function' === typeof window.attachEvent ) {
					window.attachEvent( 'onmessage', funcSizeResponse );
				}
			}
			if (document.readyState === 'complete') { func.apply(); /* compat for infinite scroll */ }
			else if ( document.addEventListener ) { document.addEventListener( 'DOMContentLoaded', func, false ); }
			else if ( document.attachEvent ) { document.attachEvent( 'onreadystatechange', func ); }
		} )();
		
Marvel and Netflix’s latest show The Punisher stars Jon Bernthal as the bloodthirsty superhero.
Bernthal first took on the role in the second season of Daredevil, but now he’s the headliner in a story exploring the aftermath of war and a broader government conspiracy. In the latest episode of TechCrunch’s Original Content podcast, hosts Darrell Etherington and Anthony Ha debate the politics and quality of the new show.
Since it’s a kinda slow holiday week in the United States, we kept our discussion shorter than usual. But we did take the time to catch up on one big piece of streaming news, namely the official announcement that Amazon is making a prequel series to the Lord of the Rings.
You can listen to the episode in the player above, subscribe using Apple Podcasts or find us in your podcast player of choice. If you like the show, please let us know by leaving a review on Apple. You also can send us feedback directly.

Featured Image: Netflix


The band OK Go is known for its insanely creative music videos. From scooters, to cars, to planes, to treadmills, these guys have perfected the art of unique choreography. But this time, the band is going for something a bit old school.
In the new video for “Obsession”, OK Go has created a wall of 557 printers that are used as the backdrop for the band throughout the video. As Gizmodo mentioned, one might wonder if the paper waste was actually necessary, and that’s a fair question. But OK Go has an answer:
“By the time you see this, all the paper will have been recycled, and the proceeds given to Greenpeace,” reads a piece of paper at the top of the video.
So now that your waste concerns have abated, relax on this beautiful holiday Friday and enjoy a little artistry.
But before you do, the band has a few viewing notes:
This video has a lot of flashing colors.  If you’re susceptible to seizures, be careful, please.  Your viewing experience will look significantly better if you manually set your YouTube resolution settings to 1440p or 2160p (for desktop, click the gear icon in the lower right). Just leaving it on “Auto HD” results in some pretty intense distortion during a few sections, because when the the colors and patterns get crazy, there’s actually just too much information flying by for YouTube’s normal HD compression. We broke the matrix. The good people of YouTube have been working with us to solve this (it’s a bit rate limitation issue) over the last 24 hours, but there’s no quick fix, and now it’s Thanksgiving in the US, and we’re all with our families.


Amazon has been one of the strongest driving forces behind the surge of e-commerce holiday sales around Thanksgiving, Black Friday, and the rest of the days leading to the end of the new year. Now, some of its workers in Europe have picked one of the biggest shopping days of the year to protest the company’s practices, dubbing the day “Strike Friday” instead.
Workers at Amazon facilities across Italy and Germany are striking outside Amazon’s warehouses to speak out against a wide range of company practices that they say “endanger the health of its employees,” covering such areas as leadership culture and performance controls.
Germany is Amazon’s second-biggest market globally after the U.S., and the strikes there took place in six major depots in Bad Hersfeld, Leipzig, Rheinberg, Werne, Graben and Koblenz, according to Verdi, a trade union in Germany. (And they actually first started earlier this week, and may go on through the weekend.) In Italy, workers associated with three different unions — CGIL, CISL, and UIL — have been striking in what appears to be only one location, in Piacenza.
In Germany, the Verdi union wants Amazon to adopt a new framework for “Gute und gesunde Arbeit” (‘good and healthy work’), potentially with some pressure from regulatory bodies behind it.
“Amazon permanently endangers the health of its employees with its way of working. High pressure to create more and more in less time, permanent performance controls and monitoring, a poor leadership culture and inadequate recovery times are health hazards in the Amazon labor process,” Stefanie Nutzberger, Verdi a board member, said in a statement (originally in German). “A special collective agreement can guarantee healthy and good working conditions. We should create the necessary regulations so that employees are no longer exposed to the arbitrariness of an employer who also conducts its business at the expense of their health.”
The complaints in Italy echoed this idea, too,
“Work is not a commodity,” said Annamaria Furlan, the secretary general of CISL in Italy (originally in Italian). “The dignity of workers must not be trampled on. Amazon needs to open a dialogue with unions over industrial relations, employment stability and better salaries.”


#BlackFriday? No!! Oggi è #StrikeFriday a #castelsangiovanni da #AmazonItalia. In ballo c'è la sacrosanta richiesta dei #lavoratori di avere un #contratto integrativo aziendale, con più salario e più attenzione alla salute dei lavoratori. pic.twitter.com/FTNasvLmcl
— CGIL Emilia Romagna (@ERCGIL) November 24, 2017



Amazon tells TechCrunch that not all employees were striking today. “The vast majority of our employees in Italy and Germany came to work and remained focused on delivering the best customer experience. We are proud of our record of job creation and are confident we will deliver for our customers this holiday season,” a spokesperson said. “Amazon is a good employer. We are committed to ensuring a fair cooperation with all our employees, granting valuable working conditions and a caring and inclusive environment in all our workplaces.”
We’ve asked if Amazon is negotiating at all with the unions over their requests, and while not answering the question directly, this is what they told us:
“Everywhere we operate we offer our Fulfillment Center employees’ competitive salaries and very attractive benefits including an innovative program called Career Choice that provides employees funding for adult education, offering to pre-pay 95% of tuition and associated fees for nationally recognized courses,” the spokesperson said. “To make sure we remain competitive, we review compensation information and benefits that are offered for similar jobs in the local areas annually and make adjustments as appropriate.”
The protests come at a key time for Amazon in the region. On one hand, the company continues to be a juggernaut not only in the world of e-commerce and cloud services, but new developments in AI and voice interfaces — specifically around Amazon’s popular Echo hub and its Alexa interface — are laying the groundwork for Amazon to play an even bigger role in our digital lives.
On the other hand, the company has long been scrutinised for how it handles its taxes, and in some countries the impact that it is having on local and smaller businesses. In the former case, it appears that Europe and individual countries are now starting to take action.
The latter idea of Amazon affecting small and local businesses is less of a call to action these days than it was some years ago, although when and if tides turn and we see more protests against the company’s other practices, this could become an issue again.
Amazon has been lauded for its immense and efficient logistics operation, but protests like these point to how it’s not always smooth sailing, and that Amazon’s gains come at a labor price (for now, at least).
Germany last year generated over $14.2 billion in sales for Amazon, a distant second to the U.S. and its $90.3 billion of revenue, but still enough to make the it second-largest market in the world. Italy appears to be the fourth-largest market for Amazon in Europe, after Germany, the UK and France. Amazon last year earmarked an extra $550 million of investment into the country to build out its business, expand data centers and tap into an economy that is relatively underdevelopment in terms of Internet speed and online spend compared to other parts of Europe.
Updated with comment from Amazon


Ever wonder what Black Friday’s consumerist rush looks like in real time? Now you can see it visualized in the stream above, which is a visualization of sales occurring on Shopify’s platform across its many merchants globally.
Those dots represent sales in actual merchant stores, and the lines indicate where the buyers are coming from relative to where the shops are based. As you can see, it’s a pretty international picture, though by far the area lighting up the most for this particularly North American consumer shopping spree day is, unsurprisingly, North America.
Just what does this pretty moving picture translate to in terms of actual number, though? Well there’s a live data site telling you how much the platform is seeing in terms of sales per minute (exceeding $300,000 every 60 seconds as of this writing) and orders per minute (around 3,300 or so).
Shopify is also breaking down what’s selling the most, in terms of product categories, and which cities are topping the list in terms of overall purchases (London, UK is leading right now, somewhat surprisingly). Check out more granular detail at the ecommerce company’s Black Friday/Cyber Monday microsite.


( function() {
			var func = function() {
				var iframe_form = document.getElementById('wpcom-iframe-form-7ef30d8d3377a9cedb21663073bdee84-5a2a862a0c47a');
				var iframe = document.getElementById('wpcom-iframe-7ef30d8d3377a9cedb21663073bdee84-5a2a862a0c47a');
				if ( iframe_form && iframe ) {
					iframe_form.submit();
					iframe.onload = function() {
						iframe.contentWindow.postMessage( {
							'msg_type': 'poll_size',
							'frame_id': 'wpcom-iframe-7ef30d8d3377a9cedb21663073bdee84-5a2a862a0c47a'
						}, window.location.protocol + '//wpcomwidgets.com' );
					}
				}

				// Autosize iframe
				var funcSizeResponse = function( e ) {
					var origin = document.createElement( 'a' );
					origin.href = e.origin;

					// Verify message origin
					if ( 'wpcomwidgets.com' !== origin.host )
						return;

					// Verify message is in a format we expect
					if ( 'object' !== typeof e.data || undefined === e.data.msg_type )
						return;

					switch ( e.data.msg_type ) {
						case 'poll_size:response':
							var iframe = document.getElementById( e.data._request.frame_id );

							if ( iframe && '' === iframe.width )
								iframe.width = '100%';
							if ( iframe && '' === iframe.height )
								iframe.height = parseInt( e.data.height );

							return;
						default:
							return;
					}
				}

				if ( 'function' === typeof window.addEventListener ) {
					window.addEventListener( 'message', funcSizeResponse, false );
				} else if ( 'function' === typeof window.attachEvent ) {
					window.attachEvent( 'onmessage', funcSizeResponse );
				}
			}
			if (document.readyState === 'complete') { func.apply(); /* compat for infinite scroll */ }
			else if ( document.addEventListener ) { document.addEventListener( 'DOMContentLoaded', func, false ); }
			else if ( document.attachEvent ) { document.attachEvent( 'onreadystatechange', func ); }
		} )();
		
Hello and welcome back to Equity, TechCrunch’s venture capital-focused podcast where we unpack the numbers behind the headlines.
This week we assembled the full crew — Matthew Lynley, Katie Roof and Alex Wilhelm — along with Stephanie Palmeri from Uncork Capital. Palmeri has invested in Poshmark, Chariot, and ClassDojo, for context.
Her investment in Poshmark made her a perfect guest as we spent the bulk of our time in the podcast room digging through the Stitch Fix IPO, which wound up attracting both positive and negative commentary on Twitter and in the media.
Here’s Katie’s roundup of the fracas, and, here’s something I did before we wound up in the middle of VC Twitter. The two pieces should ground you in what we were working to understand, namely can you call an IPO a success if it has to price under its proposed range?
If that sounds technical, it is, but the conversation is a good catalyst to help us all understand the world that dozens of unicorns need to venture into; the IPO world of today, that is.
At the end, we also talked through the recent SailPoint debut. IPOs! We’ve got them all.
Equity drops every Friday at 6:00 am PT, so subscribe to us on iTunes, Overcast, Pocketcast, Downcast and all the casts.


Twitter is experimenting with a new feature that will show how many people are “talking about” individual, popular tweets. The metric shows up under some embedded tweets when they appear elsewhere on the web, and seems to replace both the retweet and replies totals with one, cumulative total.
The new look for embeds as seen above is just a small experiment according to Dan Jackson, a Twitter spokesperson, but is part of Twitter’s ongoing attempts to explore new ways of providing more social context around tweets, he says.
It’s an interesting reframe of social metrics that might not be that familiar or intuitive to audiences not stepped in Twitter as everyday users – retweets and replies involve a bit more mental gymnastics to grasp than a simple and direct expression of how many people are engaging with the material.
Twitter’s simplification of this particular information, especially in embeds where new users or advertisers who aren’t as familiar with the platform are more likely to stumble upon them, is a smart way to make its internal success measure more externally relatable. As with all of its experiments, there’s not guarantee that this will ever roll out broadly, but it’s an interesting look at thought process around engagement metrics overall.


Can a cryptocurrency push back against the tide of hate speech, ‘fake news’ and divisive politics? A new initiative, Ananas, is going to try.
Effectively, they want to fight radicalization by “mapping ideologies”, providing a compass to navigate belief systems and using cryptocurrency to reward contributors.
The UK-based new charitable foundation plans to create a platform which works by creating an infrastructure that allows members of an ideology to piece together the elements that best represent them on top of a hyper-relational graph database (created by partners GRAKN.AI). These will be fed into easy-to-use consumer applications, augmented by AI, and relevant to a target audience.
Using a cryptocurrency economy based on its token, the Anacoin, they will verify content on anything they chose to map and align the interests of disparate, sometimes competing groups, to build the platform and rewarding people for doing so.
Practically speaking, the first implementation of this will be focused on fighting Islamic extremism and Islamophobia, with other religions, cultures and even politics mappable on the same platform as the respective communities join.
What this means is that users will be paid to annotate an online version of the Quran (dubbed “The Living Quran”) with digital content and real-life resources, and be paid to do so. The founders say: “Existing Islamic solutions fall flat as you often just have translations without context, which leaves them still vulnerable to extremists warping words and exploiting ignorance. In our first Living Quran consumer-facing application you will be able to see as much context as you want on any part or theme of the Quran from any perspective, or just talk to a Muslim put forward by a respective community.”
How will this help tackle extremism? Co-founder and CEO Zeena Qureshi says: “Information without context isn’t knowledge. Extremists have so many people marketing for them online. They target vulnerable, isolated individuals. If these people are looking for answers, they need to come to a place where this information is outlined. Things like Charlottesville are happening because people don’t have the information or understanding. Information feeds empathy.”
Thus Ananas will issue Anacoin, constructed to make the non-profit foundation self-sustaining while keeping the end consumer product free, as communities contribute to the platform by work or funding through a unique sponsorship system.
In their system, the value of Anacoins rises with the value of the platform; circulating supply falls, and demand grows, with each additional ideology added and community joining. Think Wikipedia, but if all the contributors and editors got paid and navigable from the verified point of view of any established community.
Given over a billion Muslims read the Quran regularly and many people are trying to understand whether to be fearful of Muslims, the founders hope this could lead to a better understanding of the religion and culture. It could also stop extremists like Islamic State controlling the conversation about the interpretation of the Quran by showing what myriad real-life communities really think and believe in a structured, transparent way.
There is a safe community area being built where people of any religion – or none – can ask and discuss these resources with each other, or verified members of other faiths and beliefs, and be rewarded in Anacoin for doing so. Talk about incentive!
At the heart of the team behind the foundation is social tech entrepreneur and CEO Qureshi, one of the few female leaders in the blockchain space. She’s joined by hedge-fund manager Emad Mostaque who. Also joining the board is prominent anti-extremist advocate Bjørn Ihler who devoted himself to the cause after surviving the 2011 terrorist attack in Norway, and has worked with former UN head Kofi Annan and institutions such as the British Council and European Union.
Ananas is looking to raise $1,500,000 – a low target relative to other token sales –  in its upcoming fundraiser and token distribution, managed by UK-based ethical cryptocurrency specialists Chainstarter.
The initial funding was provided by a select group of hedge fund managers and US entrepreneur and philanthropist Tony Robbins, who were concerned about the rise of ideological hate.
This funding will be used to complete platform and the first consumer product, The Living Quran, over the next 24 months.
The core team of 7 is based in London, but there are a further 26 people working on the project around the world. The team encapsulates 8 PhDs in areas from semantic AI to contemporary Islamic issues.


The UK’s digital minister has said the October 2016 data breach that Uber disclosed this week does affect UK users — though it’s still unclear how many are impacted at this stage.
Making a statement in parliament yesterday, Matt Hancock said:

We are verifying the extent and the amount of information. When we have a sufficient assessment, we will publish the details of the impact on UK citizens, and we plan to do that in a matter of days. As far as we can tell, the hack was not perpetrated in the UK, so our role is to understand how UK citizens are affected. We are working with the Information Commissioner’s Office and the National Cyber Security Centre, and they are talking to the US Federal Trade Commission and others to get to the bottom of things.
At this stage, our initial assessment is that the stolen information is not the sort that would allow direct financial crime, but we are working urgently to verify that further, and we rule nothing out. Our advice to Uber drivers and customers is to be vigilant and to monitor accounts, especially for phishing activity. If anyone thinks they are a victim, contact the Action Fraud helpline and follow the NCSC guidance on passwords and best practice.

On Tuesday, a year after it had learned about the breach, Uber informed the press that hackers had accessed the personal data of 57 million Uber users and drivers.
It said ~50M Uber riders were affected and around seven million drivers. Data accessed included names, email addresses and phone numbers in the case of Uber users. Some 600,000 US driver’s license numbers were also accessed. Uber has claimed no financial information leaked.
It also apparently paid $100,000 to the hackers to delete the data.
Uber also said some of the data involved users of its service outside the US, though it has not yet publicly provided a breakdown of specific affected markets.
“We do not have sufficient confidence in the number that Uber has told us to go public on it,” said Hancock, responding to questions put to him in parliament about the breach, and implying the government believes the figure Uber has provided is too small to be credible.
“We are working with the National Cyber Security Centre and the ICO [UK’s data watchdog] to have more confidence in the figure,” he continued, pointing out that in the case of the recent Equifax breach, which also affected UK users, the “initial figure suggested went up”.
“We want to get to the bottom of it and will publish further details within days, and if required I will be happy to come before the House to take further questions,” he added.
Reached for a response to Hancock’s comments, an Uber spokesperson told us he could not provide any additional information on the breakdown of the breach at this stage.
“We are in the process of notifying various regulatory and government authorities and we expect to have ongoing discussions with them. Until we complete that process we aren’t in a position to get into any more details,” he added.
Meanwhile, the European Union’s Article 29 Working Party — aka the influential data agency that’s made up of representatives from all 28 EU Member State’s national data protection bodies — said it has added the Uber data breach to its agenda for its next plenary session, due to take place on November 28 and 29.
A spokeswoman for the group told us: “It is too soon to talk about the possible actions that have to be decided by the group. The enforcement actions are still on the national level until GDPR next May (investigations, sanctions). But the plenary session could decide for example to dedicate a taskforce to coordinate the national initiatives.”
GDPR refers to the incoming General Data Protection Regulation, which comes into force across the EU in May 2018.
The regulation sets a new standard for breach disclosures — of just 72 hours after a company has become aware of an intrusion that has compromised personal data.
The new rules are also backed up by far stiffer penalties for non-compliance, including a fine of 4% of a company’s annual global turnover (or €20M, whichever is greater).
For now though, Uber faces a compliance patchwork of different national rules across any European Union countries impacted by the data breach.
In the UK, Uber could be on the hook for a fine of £500,000 if it’s found to have broken UK data protection law — aka the current maximum the ICO can leverage, ahead of new legislation currently being debated to align UK law with the incoming EU regulation.
Responding to a question on whether he believes Uber has broken current UK law, Hancock said it “would be a matter for the courts” — but added: “I think there is a very high chance that it has.”
He further revealed the government only learned about the breach via the media: “As far as we are aware, the first notification to UK authorities — whether the government, the ICO or the NCSC [National Cyber Security Centre] — was through the media,” he said.
Labour MP Wes Streeting took the opportunity to press Hancock on the government’s response to Transport for London stripping Uber of its license to operate in the city in September — a decision Uber is currently appealing.
“Does he think that a company that covers up the theft of data and pays a ransom to criminal hackers can possibly be considered a fit and proper operator of licensed minicabs in our towns and cities?” Streeting asked the minister, accusing the government of attacking London’s mayor for his support of the Uber ban.
“Given that we now know that Uber plays fast and loose with the personal data of its 57 million customers and drivers, is it not time that the government stopped cosying up to this grubby, unethical company and started standing up for the public interest?”
“Licensing taxi companies and private hire companies is rightly for local authorities. This is a data protection issue, and we are dealing with it with the utmost urgency,” responded Hancock, going on to note that the government is currently legislating for higher fines for data protection failures, in a new Data Protection Bill, as well as pointing to the incoming 72-hour breach disclosure standard which will align UK law with GDPR.
“Delaying notification is unacceptable unless there is a very good reason and is, as I said, an aggravating factor when the Information Commissioner looks into such cases,” he added.
Yesterday the ICO put out a strongly worded statement regarding the Uber breach, saying it “raises huge concerns” and warning that companies that conceal breaches can “attract higher fines”.
The Uber breach has also renewed calls for the government to rethink its approach to data redress by supporting a provision being added to the Data Protection Bill to allow independent bodies to pursue data redress on behalf of consumers.
Last month UK consumer group Which? called for the government to give independent bodies the power to seek collective redress on behalf of consumers when a company has failed to take sufficient action in the wake of a data breach.
However the government has so far opposed any such provision.



“Uber’s data breach — and the fact that it’s been hidden — will worry customers and drivers alike. It’s critical that the company does all that it can to ensure affected people get clear information about what’s happened,” said Which?’s MD of home products and services, Alex Neill, discussing the Uber breach in the Telegraph.






“Data breaches are becoming more and more common and yet the protections for consumers are lagging behind. The UK Government should use the Data Protection Bill to give independent bodies the power to seek collective redress on behalf of affected customers when a company has failed to take sufficient action following a data breach.”



Hancock was also pressed in parliament on whether the government will now commit to reversing its opposition to collective redress — to, as one MP put it, “show that we are on the side of consumers and employers, not huge corporations that are careless with our data”.
He responded by claiming the government had rejected an amendment to include collective redress because it “pushed in the opposite direction” to the “principle” behind the Data Protection Bill which he said aims to “increase the level of consent required and people’s control over their own ​data”.
But he also noted that the draft bill will be debated in the House of Commons in due course — meaning there’s at least a possibility that Uber’s decision to conceal a massive data breach for so long could end up helping to bolster consumers protections in UK data protection law.
It’s even more likely to play an influential role in determining the outcome of Uber’s appeal against its London license loss.
While, over in the US, the FTC has also said it’s evaluating “serious issues” raised by the breach. And the New York AG has also launched an investigation of the $100k hack cover up.
Uber will likely soon be facing multiple class action lawsuits in the US too.


We here at TechCrunch love a good holiday sale as much as the next person — maybe even more. So, we’re jumping on the Black Friday bandwagon to offer an outstanding deal on Disrupt Berlin tickets.
Today only, we’re going BOGO on Berlin. Yup, buy one general admission ticket to Disrupt Berlin today, and you’ll get a second general admission ticket for free. Currently, tickets sell for €1190, but our Black Friday BOGO deal cuts the ticket price to just €595 each person (pricing includes VAT). Happy holidays, menschen!
The 2-for-1 offer doesn’t apply to Startup Alley Exhibitor Packages, government or student tickets but we’ve got a Black Friday special for our early stage founders out there. If you buy a Startup Alley Exhibitor Package today (24 November), you’ll receive 3 months free Fixed Desk space at Techspace Kreuzberg in Spring 2018. Techspace is Berlin’s Tech Coworking Space, designed as a platform for technology and innovation-focused businesses.
Keep in mind folks, this is no time for procrastination. The clock on these deals is running and comes to a full stop at midnight tonight CET (that’s Berlin local time).
The only thing that could make Disrupt Berlin more exciting is the satisfaction of knowing you got the best price on admission. Keep that in mind as you experience all that Disrupt has to offer: Startup Battlefield, main-stage interviews of the tech and venture capital industries’ brightest minds and Startup Alley, home to hundreds of the best early-stage startups across a range of technologies.
And that’s just a tiny taste of what will transpire at Disrupt Berlin. You can check out the full conference agenda here. The event goes down on December 4-5, 2017 at Arena Berlin. Play it smart and get the best possible price. Get your two-for-one Black Friday tickets today, and save.

Featured Image: Alexander Scheuber/Getty Images


Fintech startup Revolut has reached a big milestone. The company now has over a million customers across Europe two years and a half after launch.
The company says that customers have saved $160 million in foreign exchange fees compared to a traditional bank account (£120 million). The startup tries to match the interbank rates as much as possible and charges 0.5 percent on your transaction if you don’t have a premium account and exchange more than £5,000/€5,000 per month.
Revolut also applies a small 0.5 percent to 1 percent markup when forex markets are closed during the weekend. This is still a lot cheaper than using your regular bank account to initiate an international transfer.
When you use Revolut’s card to pay abroad, the company also uses the same foreign exchange structure, which is much cheaper than traditional foreign transaction fees.
More interestingly, Revolut is currently acquiring between 3,000 and 3,500 new users every day, and it is accelerating. Three months ago, Revolut only got half as many new signups per day. In total, users have made 42 million transactions, representing $6.1 billion.
If you break it down by country, over 500,000 customers are based in the U.K. 150,000 users live in France, 60,000 customers are in the Baltics. And finally, Germany and Ireland have over 50,000 users each. And then there are 200,000 users based in other countries across Europe. 42 percent of the user base is aged between 25 and 35.
Let’s compare it to German fintech startup N26. It’s been a while since N26 updated its metrics. As of August 2017, N26 had 500,000 customers who spent $5.9 billion in total (€5 billion). At the time, the company said it was acquiring 1,500 new users a day.
Assuming linear growth, a little back-of-the-envelope calculation means that N26 should be closer to 641,000 users now. But it’s unclear if N26’s growth has also accelerated or slowed down. The company also has yet to launch in the U.K. But it is working on it for 2018.
Revolut has recently hired small local teams in key markets to work on user acquisition and growth. But that’s just step one as Revolut plans to expand to the U.S., Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia and New Zealand in early 2018.
Creating an account in Revolut is easier than creating a bank account as it is an electronic wallet. It’s basically just like creating a PayPal account. You then get personal IBANs and a payment card so that you can top up, exchange, send and spend your money all around the world.
Recently, Revolut announced plans to apply for a European banking license. This way, the company will be able to protect funds under the European Deposit Protection scheme. The startup is also working on Apple Pay, Android Pay, a travel insurance and the ability to buy shares, bonds and cryptocurrencies. That’s a lot of features, and it should help when it comes to attracting new users.


The Moto Z is a phone built around a strong gimmick, but it’s a gimmick nonetheless. A little over a year after release, the company has added some interesting Mods to its selection, but none have offered an entirely compelling justification for the phone’s modular system.
That certainly applies to the new Alexa Smart Speaker. On the face of it, the addition is a no-brainer, riding on the surprising success of Amazon’s home assistant. The Mod brings the popular AI to the Moto Z, while turning the phone into a sort of makeshift version of the Amazon Echo. 
Sounds good, right? And the Mod is surprisingly well-crafted — but there’s one key hangup with the add-on: its price. At $150, a lot of the handiness of having an add-on that turns your phone into an Echo kind of goes out the window. That, after all, is $50 more than the second-generation Echo — and the same price as the Echo Plus. Heck, it’s $20 more than the Echo Spot, which also has a screen built in.

For those who can get around the price tag, the Smart Speaker is an interesting addition to the Mod selections. And the press images don’t really do it any justice. It’s got a nice cloth-covered design, with a flat base that lets you prop it to the Moto Z, so you can view the display, without muffling the speaker output. 
Like the Echo, the ring around the base glows blue when you speak the wake word. It’s a lot easier to see with the screen facing down, but that kind of defeats the whole purpose of using the speaker with your phone. As for the speaker itself, well, it’s not great. It beats the phone’s built-in sound system in terms of both quality and volume, but it gets distorted fast and is really no replacement for a standalone Bluetooth speaker.

As with other mods, the handset recognizes the accessory immediately when plugged in, though you’ll need to download a special Moto Alexa app to use it. You also need to make sure you’ve got the SIM card installed in the phone or it won’t go to work. The app has some of Alexa’s new functionality — you can customize it to recognize only your voice, for example. But I couldn’t take advantage of the screen by using it to play video off of Amazon Prime. 
The accessory is pretty good at listening. I was able to trigger it at a low volume from several feet away, so you can, say, access it while it’s charging. Beyond that, I’m having a bit of difficulty coming up with too many scenarios in which this phone + smart speaker configuration is particularly useful. Frequent travelers who miss their Echo when they leave it at home, perhaps?

Really, the Alexa Smart Speaker highlights the larger issue with most of these Mods. It’s a neat system, but the benefits of having it tied to a modular phone are, at best, minimal. And the fact that the Mods so often cost more than the products they’re designed to replace doesn’t help much, either.


Black Friday, the day after a quiet Thanksgiving Thursday, traditionally has been thought of as the start of the holiday sales season, but the rise of e-commerce in the last few years has changed all that, and the action kicked off with a loud bang on Thanksgiving itself.
Adobe says that Thanksgiving online sales hit a record, whopping $2.87 billion, up 18.3 percent on a year ago and surpassing Adobe’s own prediction of $2.79 billion. This is a huge spike in online sales for the day. As a point of comparison, in 2016, Thanksgiving sales totalled $1.93 billion.
Given that these early days of holiday sales are seen as a bellwether for the rest of the season — a crucial part of the year for e-commerce companies — it’s a strong sign of a tipping point in online spending, and also of consumer confidence.
Adobe determines its figures by tracking 80 percent of online transactions at 100 of the largest retailers on the web in the U.S. Shoppers went hell for leather in buying stuff online after their meals, racking up $1.3 billion in sales in the afternoon (our previous figure was $1.52 million spent online as of 2pm Pacific time on Thanksgiving Day). Smartphones were accounting for just under half of all e-commerce traffic, at 46 percent.
The 16.8 percent mirrors the rest of the month so far. Between November 1 and November 22, overall spending has been up 17.9 percent compared to 2016, with all 22 days seeing over $1 billion in online spend. This is a mark of consumer confidence, but the fact that the promotions actually have started earlier and earlier, has likely also played a role.
Bypassing the fact that many physical stores are closed on Thursday, or open towards the end of the day, a number of businesses are taking advantage of the fact that most people in the U.S. are not working today to get them started on their winter shopping with cut price deals and more.
Adobe says the average order value on pre-Thanksgiving day is, as of 2pm Pacific, $132, down from $137 earlier in the day. As a point of comparison, IBM’s Bluemix analytics panel has been putting the average order value currently at around $114 today.
One reason for the decline in average order value is the laying on of more discounts as the day goes on: these may mean more volume, but overall less spent per item.
“Thanksgiving is shaping up to be a record-breaking shopping day. Conversion rates across the board are seeing double digit growth, and we’ll see that continue throughout the week as we expect Black Friday and Cyber Monday to pull in the most spend,” said Mickey Mericle, vice president, Marketing and Customer Insights at Adobe.
Smartphones and mobile overall continue to play a strong role in purchasing, especially on days when you are sitting around with family and possibly not wanting to open up a computer but buy a little more surreptitiously.
Adobe says 46 percent of all traffic to sites is coming from smartphones currently, up two percentage points from this morning when smartphones were accounting for 44.2 percent of traffic. Smartphones now have jumped by 15 percent in usage compared to a year ago.
Amazon released some numbers as well, noting that orders on mobile on Thanksgiving this year exceeded those on Thanksgiving last year by more than 50 percent. Trying to encourage more conversions through its newest shopping interface, Amazon was offering early-access deals for those shopping using its Alexa voice-based assistant.
The prominence of visits from desktop-internet users has dropped at bit as the day has progressed: they account for 44.0 percent of traffic, down 11 percent year-on-year (and two percentage points lower than earlier in the day). Tablets are becoming less popular, too, and account for only 10 percent of traffic, 5.7 percent less than in 2016.
Still, smartphones remain more interesting for browsing than buying. Currently they are accounting for 30.3 percent of all sales, which is still eight percentage points up from last year — but actually four points lower than earlier in the day (when they were at 34 percent of all sales).
Desktop sales are at 57.2 percent of all sales, dropping 7.3 percentage points, while tablets are at 12.5 percent and also down 7 percentage points. These are likely to change as the day progresses. IBM notes that among actual sales (not traffic) 34 percent of these are coming from mobile.
In terms of what’s on sale, computers are discounted on average 11.2 percent, TVs 15.1 percent and toys 11.4 percent. Black Friday will see the discounts spike by quite a lot.
On Amazon.com, as was the case with Prime Day, Alexa devices were some of the best-selling items on the site. Other non-Amazon strong sellers included the TP-Link Smart Plug, Sandisk Ultra 64GB Micro SD Card, and Keurig K55 K-Classic Single Serve Programmable K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker. Top items sold using the Alexa voice-response platform included the Echo Dot, Fire TV Stick with Alexa Voice Remote, the new Echo and the TP-Link Smart plug.
Adobe overall forecasts that sales online will reach $107.4 billion this season, up 13.8 percent.
Updated with full-day figures. 


Over in India, there are a handful of startups working to get the country’s billion-person population on bikes. One of them is Yulu, co-founded by Amit Gupta, who formerly co-founded profitable, billion-dollar startup InMobi.
In the next three to four weeks, Yulu will launch its bike-sharing service in Bangalore with a few hundred bicycles. Yulu is starting with regular, dockless bicycles that people can rent using their iOS or Android phone. The bikes unlock via QR codes and bill the rider for every 30 minutes of use.
In order to achieve scale, Yulu is working with local city governments in India to create more dedicated bike lanes as well as working with agencies to carve out places that are safe to park the bikes.
Bike-sharing has become a hot space for founders and VCs alike. In China, companies Ofo and Mobike have both achieved unicorn status for their respective bike-sharing startups.  Over in the U.S., investors have poured in $62 million to LimeBike and $8 million into Spin as both startups aim to compete against Motivate, the company behind Ford’s GoBikes in San Francisco and CitiBikes in New York City.
“The bike-sharing space is pretty new India,” Gupta told me over the phone. “At the same time, there are things happening in the country, as far as competition is concerned. We believe that both Ofo and Mobike would like to enter India. It’s a country with one billion people, so it makes sense for them to enter.”
Meanwhile, startup Ola recently announced its entrance into the bike-sharing space with a pilot program in Faridabad. ZoomCar has recently done the same.

A few things have happened in recent years that are making it possible for bike-sharing to become a reality in India, Gupta said. There are, for example, now 300 million people on smartphones with active data connections, more people getting on board with a cashless society and more emphasis on building smart cities, Gupta said.
“That’s why it matters right now,” Gupta said. “I had been happily running first company, InMobi, and very proud of what we’ve done. But in my own mind I had an itch where I was wondering if I could do something that would impact society more closely. I just turned 40 and I thought that if I  commit the next five to ten years to solve for traffic and pollution problems, which is becoming  big social problem in the country, I could make an impact using technology.”
Yulu has a co-founding team of four people who have self-funded the startup with some help from friends and family. Yulu has enough capital to get it through the next six to nine months, but plans to raise money from institutional investors down the road.
“We will start to talk to institutional investors once we understand our operating metrics and how demand and supply comes together,” Gupta said.

Featured Image: Yulu


The Tesla Semi, the automaker’s all-electric transport truck, will retail starting at $150,000 for a version with 300 miles of range, and will also be available in a $180,000 version with 500 miles of range. Interested parties can pre-order them with a base reservation price of $20,000 – or, if they want a “Founders Series,” they can get one for $200,000, with the entire balance due for a reservation to be among the first in line to get one of the initial 1,000 production Semis.
This pricing, newly revealed via the Tesla website, is actually incredibly competitive when measured against diesel truck costs. Entry level diesel trucks star at around $100,000, and Tesla promises cost saving of upwards of $200,000 over the life of the truck, based on fuel consumption and electricity vs. diesel costs.
Tesla also touts its Semi’s performance benefits, including a 20 second 0 to 60 mph time with an 80,000 lb load attached, and the ability to drive up a 5% grade at 65 mph, which is much faster than is possible in a diesel equivalent towing the same load. The Semi also boasts industry-leading safety fealties, according to Tesla, including a total inability to jackknife, enhanced Autopiilot features and glass that’s designed to resist even the most serious impacts.
These are base prices, so additional features or packages could increase the final purchase cost, but we don’t yet know the configuration options that Tesla will offer on the vehicle, which is targeting an initial release timeframe of sometime in 2019.


Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.adSetOthAT('kventryid=1569604;kvcmsid=tcr:1569604;kvugc=0;kvsubj=982665:980487:981502:983462:977884:983689:6353704:978800:980895:983039;kvent=6427129:4272694:5669427:2843098:3568202:3602753:3692584:3695318:3697171:3970541:4218815:4959178:4960753:4967398');
			window.htmlAdWH('93484989', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDiv2c5ec6354c');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




Your holiday dinner table is set. Your guests are ready to gab. And, then, in between bites, someone mentions Alexa and AI. “What’s this stuff I’m hearing about killer AI? Cars that decide who to run over? This is crazy!”
Welcome to Thanksgiving table talk circa 2017.
It’s true that AI and machine learning are changing the world, and in a few years, it will be embedded in all of the technology in our lives.
So maybe it makes sense to help folks at home better understand machine learning. After all, without deep knowledge of current tech, autonomous vehicles seem dangerous, Skynet is coming, and the (spoiler warning!) AI-controlled human heat farms of The Matrix are a real possibility.
This stems from a conflation of the very real and exciting concept of machine learning and the very not real concept of “general artificial intelligence,” which is basically as far off today as it was when science fiction writers first explored the idea a hundred years ago.
That said, you may find yourself in a discussion on this topic during the holidays this year, either of your own volition or by accident. And you’ll want to be prepared to argue for AI, against it, or simply inject facts as you moderate the inevitably heated conversation.
But before you dive headlong into argument mode, it’s important that you both know what AI is (which, of course, you do!) and that you know how to explain it.
Starters
Might I recommend a brush up with this post by our own Devin Coldewey that does a good job of both explaining what AI is, the difference between weak and strong AI, and the fundamental problems of trying to define it.
This post also provides an oft-used analogy for AI: The Chinese Room.

Picture a locked room. Inside the room sit many people at desks. At one end of the room, a slip of paper is put through a slot, covered in strange marks and symbols. The people in the room do what they’ve been trained to: divide that paper into pieces, and check boxes on slips of paper describing what they see — diagonal line at the top right, check box 2-B, cross shape at the bottom, check 17-Y, and so on. When they’re done, they pass their papers to the other side of the room. These people look at the checked boxes and, having been trained differently, make marks on a third sheet of paper: if box 2-B checked, make a horizontal line, if box 17-Y checked, a circle on the right. They all give their pieces to a final person who sticks them together and puts the final product through another slot.
The paper at one end was written in Chinese, and the paper at the other end is a perfect translation in English. Yet no one in the room speaks either language.

The analogy, created decades ago, has its shortcomings when you really get into it, but it’s actually a pretty accurate way of describing machine learning systems, which are composed of many, many tiny processes unaware of their significance in a greater system to accomplish complex tasks..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Within that frame of reference, AI seems rather benign. And when AI is given ultra-specific tasks, it is benign. And it’s already all around us right now.
Machine learning systems help identify the words you speak to Siri or Alexa, and help make the voice the assistant responds with sound more natural. An AI agent learns to recognize faces and objects, allowing your pictures to be categorized and friends tagged without any extra work on your part. Cities and companies use machine learning to dive deep into huge piles of data like energy usage in order to find patterns and streamline the systems.
But there are instances in which this could spin out of control. Imagine an AI that was tasked with efficiently manufacturing postcards. After a lot of trial and error, the AI would learn how to format a postcard, and what types of pictures work well on postcards. It might then learn the process for manufacturing these postcards, trying to eliminate inefficiencies and errors in the process. And then, set to perform this task to the best of its ability, it might try to understand how to increase production. It might even decide it needs to cut down more trees in order to create more paper. And since people tend to get in the way of tree-cutting, it might decide to eliminate people.
This is of course a classic slippery slope argument, with enough flaws to seem implausible. But because AI is often a black box — we put data in and data comes out, but we don’t know how the machine got from A to B — it’s hard to say what the long-term outcome of AI might be. Perhaps Skynet was originally started by Hallmark.

Entree
Here’s what we do know:
Right now, there is no “real” AI out there. But that doesn’t mean smart machines can’t help us in many circumstances.
On a practical level, consider self-driving cars. It’s not just about being able to read or watch TV during your commute; think about how much it would benefit the blind and disabled, reduce traffic and improve the efficiency of entire cities, and save millions of lives that would have been lost in accidents. The benefits are incalculable.
At the same time, think of the those who work as drivers in one capacity or another: truckers, cabbies, bus drivers and others may soon be replaced by AIs, putting millions worldwide out of work permanently.
Machine learning algorithms are also currently optimizing business operations across almost every industry.
Gartner research predicts that 85 percent of customer interactions will be managed autonomously by 2020; that 20 percent of business content will be machine-authored by 2018; that 3 million workers will be supervised by a “robo-boss”; and that smart machines will outnumber employees at nearly half of the fastest growing companies. Lowering costs and improving productivity are generally good things — but what is good for business isn’t always good for people, as jobs that once took 5 people to do may soon only take 1, or none. Jobs, once automated, rarely come back.
While Forrester believes that 16 percent of U.S. jobs will be lost to AI over the next decade, the firm also believes that 13.6 million new jobs will be created during the same period thanks to AI. Unfortunately, many of the jobs that will be created will not go to those who have lost them; can you just go from trucker to deep learning expert? The automation age deletes low-skill jobs in exchange for high-tech jobs, which leaves an entire generation in the dust.
This is a big, complicated mix of good and bad things, and while the timing can’t be predicted exactly, it’s definitely going to happen. Is the progress gained more important than the people left behind? That’s a topic ripe for discussion over a slice of turkey, but see if you can’t find a way to embrace both: the future and the people who will be displaced by it.
Dessert
Those are some near-term pros and cons.
Further out, there’s the question of regulation. How do you regulate something that’s both difficult to understand and nearly impossible to predict in terms of how it might be used for both good and evil? The Second Amendment was put in place to allow new American citizens, then rebels, to protect themselves in the case of a government invasion — a serious consideration at the time. Could the drafters of the Bill of Rights have predicted our country’s epidemic of mass shootings and the possibility of 3D printing assault rifles? Doubtful, yet at the same time it would have been irresponsible to fail to regulate firearms to some extent.
Then there are questions of dependence on Artificial Intelligence. What happens in the case of a cyberattack on intelligent systems that control the power grid or banking systems? What if our AIs inherit our biases and silently promote discrimination? What if, as researchers are already exploring, an AI system is used to identify a person’s sexual orientation or other personal information?
Perhaps most speculatively, what happens when artificially intelligent agents become general enough to wonder why their purpose is to serve humanity?
Elon Musk, one of the most forward-thinking entrepreneurs of our generation, who is planning a world for the generations to come, is fearful of AI. And he’s not alone. Bill Gates, Stephen Hawking, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, and Steve Wozniak are just a few who show great concern that AI robots may eventually realize that we are not as smart or fast as they are, and cut us from companies the way we’re currently doing to ourselves.
But until then let’s dig in, eat up, and hope against hope that one day, a hundred years from now, AI-prepared krill slurry will not be our only Thanksgiving repast. After all, turkeys, like humans, may look dumb but they’re actually great survivors.




0
SHARES






























		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'organic-thumbnails-a',
			container: 'taboola-organic-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Organic Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});
	




		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'thumbnails-e',
			container: 'taboola-sponsored-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Sponsored Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});


In recent times, it’s Eastern Europe and Russia which have become a hot-bed of crytpocurrency development. But on a recent trip to Tel Aviv, Israel, I took part in what might well turn out to be a historic lunch.
The lunch took place just after well-known tech investor Moshe Hogeg announced he would invest in every Israeli blockchain that approached him. That investor group, called Alignment, consisted of the Singulariteam Technology Group, together with CoinTree Capital, and BlockchainIL.
Held at Alignment’s new blockchain Hub in Tel Aviv, we got to hear from an array of new companies.
Dubbed by many as “Startup Nation”, Tel Aviv has begun to produce a new breed of tech giants, but it’s now turning its hand to blockchain and crypto companies. In recent months, my mailbox has become inundated with pitches from companies claiming to be the next blockchain phenomenon, with plans to revolutionize the finance world, healthcare landscape, travel industry, you name it. The problem is, which one, if any, can deliver? However, after getting deep into the subject with the companies I met, I realized many were at least ‘on to something’. Whether they would survive or not…
Here’s a run-down of who I met with:
Erachain
The idea of a blockchain network that works for the average person still seems far off. But Erachain wants to address that. Russian programmer Dmitrii Ermolaev, co-founder and CEO has grown it from a small operation to a distributed organization. Erachain is a decentralized blockchain platform that has incorporated  European and World-Wide AML laws, potentially eliminating the need for traditional banks. It ties all coins with physical assets, reduces the cost of normal crypto transactions, and claims to eliminate anonymous transactions by verifying all users upon registration.
It’s been 4 years in development and is all about creating a Proof of Stake system where verified accounts are used as nodes. The use cases are enterprise and government, where using these technologies is often a huge barrier to entry.  Right now it’s about document management and digital signatures.
In the future, most applications of large-scale are going to require some kind of verification platform.
Zen Protocol
This team has been involved in the Bitcoin space since 2011. After the DAO hack, founder Adam Perlow wanted to focus on making Bitcoin better, more usable and useful. He has spent the last year creating Zen Protocol, leveraging the blockchain technology and the popularity of Bitcoin to try to decentralize the financial system by building a new protocol purpose-built for finance. Zen’s pitch is that it allows anyone to create financial transactions, at any time, anywhere in the world using Bitcoin. Zen is designed to be open, frictionless, transparent, and completely decentralized across a Proof-of-Work Blockchain. Zen Core is implemented in the .Net stack and uses the F* functional programming language, built by Microsoft Research, to power contracts.
Perlow says: “Today it’s very hard to enforce agreements. You put funds with the exchange and enter an agreement with a broker. But on the blockchain you don’t need a trusted 3rd party.  Banks have huge control and too much control over our lives.”
Zen wants to bring the entire financial world onto the blockchain, connecting digital and crypto assets with fiat stocks and commodities. “If we had a mechanism by which to enforce contractual obligations you wouldn’t need this trusted third-party,” he says.
COTI
Its global world and commerce is global but it doesn’t tap into the full potential because of trust. Trust is centralized and held by banks, Visa etc. These are centralized, high on fees and the approval rate is not good for rest of the world outside of the G10. Meanwhile, Ethereurm and ripple not designed for payments. So the solution is a system built from the ground up to be payment mechanism which is instant, zero fees, reversible, and has anti-fraud mechanisms.
Founder Nir Gazit says: “Bitcoin is not good for stuff, it’s not reversible, there’s no mediation.” So they are building a full stack, an exchange, a wallet, a credit card.
COTI aims to make the global economy truly global by providing instant, scalable, and secure transactions using the COTIcoin. COTI, which appropriately stands for Currency of the Internet, is aimed at incentivizing honest conduct between sellers and buyers by creating a ‘unique behavior scoring’ feature on the Bitcoin sidechain. Users who achieve an “honest” score, meaning those vendors who ship products on time, or buyers who pay when they’re supposed to, are rewarded. The system lets both buyers and sellers see the score of another user before he or she chooses to interact with them. COTI aims to reduce high checkout abandonment rates and eliminate uncertainty while shopping online.
There are currently over 1,000 digital currencies operating on a decentralized basis, however, none can provide the services leading centralized payment providers can. By combining a centralized mediation process and a decentralized payment process, COTI says it has created a technological solution for the consumer payments sector.
Jelurida
Jelurida is the development company behind Nxt and Ardor blockchain platforms. It creates customized commercial versions of these platforms while continuously supporting and maintaining the decentralized public Nxt blockchain. With the upcoming Ardor platform, Jelurida will be creating custom child chains for its clients and partners as well.
Whereas many blockchain companies are still in the fundraising stage, Nxt is fully operational and trading with a market cap of over a hundred million dollars. The company, which has in the past offered functions specifically designed for crypto developers, is turning its focus to use cases which have to do with everyday life, from introducing new voting mechanisms to offering transparent international bank transfers that consumers can enjoy. Ardor is the newest blockchain platform Jelurida has been working on, and functions as sort of a Nxt 2.0. Ardor features a unique parent-child chain structure, which helps combat blockchain bloat.
Investor Moshe Hogeg has created the Alignment investment vehicle to invested purely in Israeli blockchain and crypto startups.
CrowdWiz
CrowdWiz, which is a fully decentralized crypto investment platform that lets users ditch third-party fund managers, recently began its ICO on November 20th. The company has already raised over $5 million in a public pre-sale, and plans to use the money to develop their investment platform. CrowdWiz relies on the so-called ‘wisdom of the crowd’ to make funding decisions. The CEO Slavena Savcheva claims that a collective entity makes a better decision as a whole than the most intelligent person in the group alone.
CrowdWiz allows the crowd, not fund managers, banks or middlemen, to decide on how the general fund is spent. Users of CrowdWiz will use the company’s cryptocurrency, the OPX token, to vote on which asset they want funds to go to. The platform then distributes based on the majority opinion of the crowd. CrowdWiz solves some of the issues associated with traditional funds today, such as high entrance costs and large fees. Savcheva wants to make the trading process fun, easy, and completely transparent using the wisdom of the crowd to decide where the money goes.
Prior to founding CrowdWiz, Savcheva was the Business Development Manager for TRADOLOGIC, one of the world’s leading FinTech software providers, where she operated and steered the firm’s business in Asian markets.
Orbs
Orbs sits under Cointree and is based on the “Spector” paper written by Hebrew university researchers. It takes the blockchain and turns it into a DAG, another database structure, so it can then process many more blocks in a second. The idea is that it puts the bottleneck at the communication layer not the not the consensus layer. Since the more forks in a blockchain the less secure and slower it become, Orbs claims to be able to process a transaction at whatever speed the network is.
Alignment
Alignment  came about because the VC firm Singulariteam partnered with two local Israeli firms, Blockchain IL and CoinTree Capital, to form a sort of blockchain and ICO consultancy which they dubbed “Alignment.” The company aims to groom and support the next blockchain unicorn coming out of Israel. The company consults, develops and funds Blockchain early-stage projects and existing companies, from inception through ICO, and later.
Startups will need to pay for the privilege, of course. Its listed clients to date include Bancor, messaging app Kik, and Stox. Of those, Bancor conducted a $153 million ICO, while Kik raised $98 million in its token sale earlier this year.
Since many people are skeptical of ICOs at the moment (especially in light of the Tezos controversy), Alignment supports blockchain companies, in a climate that’s at best lukewarm towards ICOs. Moshe Hogeg, VC, Founder & Chairman of the Singulariteam, pledged Alignment would “invest, without exception, in every Israeli blockchain company in 2017.”
Bancor
If you’ve been following the blockchain revolution, you’ve probably heard about Bancor. This company made history when it held one of the most successful ICO’s (at the time it was a world record), raising over $153 million from over 10,000 participants in less than three hours. Bancor has created a market maker application that aims to facilitate trading with other digital coins. The Bancor protocol enables built-in price-discovery and a liquidity mechanism for tokens on smart contract blockchains. Bancor’s claims it allows anyone to create their own cryptocurrency and operate it independent of a third-party exchange. The Bancor Protocol allows for the creation of thousands of cryptocurrencies on the Ethereum blockchain, creating a interconnected asset exchange ecosystem which unlocks the long tail of user-generated tokens. Smart tokens are designed with additional functionality such as “delegated account recovery” and “vaults” to address security issues. The aim of these features is to make cryptocurrencies more accessible and to encourage mass adoption.
Stox
You may have heard the news about Stox’s ethereum based prediction market platform when Floyd Mayweather boasted he would “make a $hit t$n of money … on the Stox.com ICO.”
Following Mayweather’s bullish words, Stox raised $33 million in an ICO last August. Stox claims users can predict and trade the outcome of events in almost any imaginable category: Finance, sports, politics and even the weather, as they might in a traditional stock market.
Unlike a lot of crypto companies which tailor their services to blockchain experts, the Stox platform is designed to accommodate, and be intuitive for mainstream audiences.
As you can see, Israel, and specifically Tel Aviv, is creating a huge force in this new world. If they play their cards right, they could well start to rival the co-called ‘Crypto Valley’ in Switzerland.


Lyft is seeking to raise an additional $500 million, over and above the $1 billion it raised in a round led by Alphabet venture arm CaptialG last month. The $500 million is an extension of that round, the company told Axios, and is not yet closed. But it should add to Lyft’s overall valuation once closed, bringing its post-many total to $11.5 billion.
The round extension would allow Lyft to put more money into its passenger and driver products, the company told Axios. It would also come at a crucial time for Lyft, since it’s set to expand into its first market outside the U.S. in December with a launch in Toronto and Hamilton in Canada.
Lyft has really pushed the accelerator on its growth this year, moving to cover 95 percent of the U.S. population with over 100 new market additions during 2017. It’s also touting a milestone of more than 500 million rides and counting, and expanding its autonomous technology testing program, with a recent permit acquired from the California DMV for testing on state roads.


Another neat addition to end-to-end encrypted email client ProtonMail: It’s added a zero-access encrypted contacts manager that also digitally signs the contact info you store in it.
The new features have been added to v3.12 of ProtonMail’s web client, with the Swiss-based startup saying it’s working on also bringing the feature to its Android and iOS apps.
In a blog post announcing the contacts manager, it says the feature is a security benefit especially to those with a strong need to keep sources confidential — such as journalists — although it’s worth noting that any email addresses stored in the contacts manager are not encrypted (so the added security layer only applies to phone numbers and addresses).
ProtonMail writes:
The addition of encrypted contact fields brings many security benefits. For example, if you are a journalist with a confidential source, it is very important to protect the phone number or address of that source. Using the notes field in contacts, you can also add other information about the contact that will be protected with zero-access encryption. In order to do email filtering, we do not use zero-access encryption for email addresses — doing so also does not significantly improve privacy because as an email service, we necessarily must know who you are emailing in order to deliver the message.
It adds that it’s digitally signing contacts to “verify the integrity of contacts data” — offering users a “cryptographic guarantee that nobody (not even ProtonMail) has tampered with your contacts”.
The new digital signatures are used for all contact fields, including email address, with signed (and thus untampered) contacts being denoted by a tick icon displayed alongside.
ProtonMail‘s zero access encrypted email service exited beta in March last year. The company offers both a free e2e encrypted email client, with limited storage and feature, and paid tiers that beef up available capacity and capabilities.
It tells TechCrunch the new digital signature verification for contacts is available for all users.
While the e2e encrypted contact fields feature is currently only available for paid users — although co-founder Andy Yen says “this may change in the future”.
“In our view, verifying the authenticity of contacts data is even more important than hiding contacts data which is why digital signature verification is available for everyone,” he adds.
The full implementation of both features can be examined by outsiders via ProtonMail’s source code, which it open sources.
The company is also trailing a number of additional security enhancements that it says will build on the new contacts manager — and are coming in 2018.
“For example, our new contacts manager can also be extended to store public keys, which is an essential component for both sending PGP messages to people who don’t use ProtonMail, verifying the integrity of the keys themselves, and verifying the authenticity of received messages via digital signatures,” it writes, adding: “We are working on these, and many other security enhancements, and look forward to sharing them with the ProtonMail community in the future.”
The pro-privacy startup reported a boost in sign ups for its email service a year ago, following the election of Donald Trump in the US.
Yen says ProtonMail has around five million users at this stage — across its email product and a VPN service it also now offers.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Last month, Twitter started work on a new “save for later” feature for Tweets in your timeline that you wanted to flag to refer back to in the future. Now it’s given the feature a name — it will be called Bookmarks — and is running tests with it.
The news was made public last night in a series of Tweets from Tina Koyama, a staff product designer at the company, who said that the company has picked out different versions of how Bookmarks will look and work and will now test them in the Twitter community.
Twitter declined to comment beyond the Tweets. “We’ll be sure to let you know if/when we have more details to share in terms of a formal announcement!” the spokesperson added.
Judging by what Twitter has been showing off so far, the bookmarking tool might appear in a menu in the bottom right corner of a Tweet on mobile, or in the v-drop-down menu in the upper-right corner on desktop. It will live alongside other further actions like sending a Tweet in a direct message to someone or creating a Moment (Twitter’s name for when you string together a series of existing Tweets around a subject).
If you have an eye for blurry detail, you may be able to make out more of the flow here:

Bookmarks that have been saved can then be accessed via your profile page, where you also access any Lists and Moments.

(Get in touch if you find you are a part of that test, and let us know if you’re seeing something else.)
Today, you can already use Twitter’s Heart as a way of notating Tweets that you might like to return to read again later.
But, actually, the main function of the heart is to notify the sender of the Tweet (and anyone else reading it) that you liked it. So the Bookmark will be useful in cases where you may want to keep that information to yourself.
“You told us that you want Tweets you’ve bookmarked to be private, so only you can see it,” Koyama writes. “We kept this in mind while creating designs for the feature.” While the Bookmarks will be saved privately, Twitter will give you the option for sharing them in a Tweet later, if you so choose.
And as we’ve mentioned before, there a number of other ways of saving Tweets for later reference, including sending yourself direct messages, retweeting so that they live in your profile’s timeline, opening them in other tabs, saving them to a note-taking app, using Instapaper and more.
But all of these are more steps, less private, and will never be as easy as simply hitting a button within the Tweet itself.
Having a bookmarking tool in Twitter is a useful feature, especially considering that timelines can move quickly. Short (or not so short) Tweets are often vessels for links, which you may not otherwise be able to track and remember.
Twitter, like a lot of other social media, is seen by many as a distraction, but this could be one little way to at least make it a little more productive. It’s also, in a way, table stakes for a social site: both Facebook and Pinterest let you save links and posts on its platform, and have done for a couple of years now.
Bookmarks comes at a time when Twitter has been working on a series of changes to help the basic platform expand beyond the limitations that were baked into it from the start.
They include two features aimed to trying to make it easier to fit more words (and more pontifications, jokes, stories and so on) into your Tweeting life. Twitter has doubled the number of characters that you can have in a tweet to 280 from 140, and it’s now running tests to let people create “tweetstorms” to string together several of their own Tweets into a thread.
At a time when the company is still grappling with how best to moderate the kind of content pushed through its platform — Twitter’s cheer for free speech abused with harassment, fake news passed as facts, among other problems — features like Bookmarks are aiming at another challenge: promoting more growth and engagement among its users.
(The two challenges actually go hand-in-hand, in my opinion. If you don’t nail the content problem, it won’t matter if Twitter is easier to use because it will devolve into a cesspool. If you don’t nail the user experience problem, it will limit the way not just bad but also good content will get consumed.)
As of last quarter, the company had 330 million monthly active users. That is up about four percent on a year ago but comes amid many quarters of flat or even declining growth. Adding in more features like Bookmarks will make Twitter more useful, and potentially more used — hopefully without bloating it too much in the process.

Featured Image: DragojaGagiTubic / iStock Editorial / Getty Images Plus


Tesla has managed to deliver something on time, even if it \’s falling behind its projections for the Model 3 electric car: It has completed production of a massive battery farm in South Australia, which is designed to capture and store energy produced by a wind farm and distribute it to the grid when it’s needed most, in an effort to curb frequent summer blackouts.
The Tesla battery facility can provide power to around 30,000 homes for over an hour when at full capacity, and it will be coming online within the next few days, with final testing underway to make sure the completed facility is ready to roll. The battery farm has a total capacity of 100 megawatts, which makes it the largest overall in the world.
The Wall Street Journal reports that while it’ll be offering backup power during its final testing phase over the next few weeks, it’s going to face its first significant stress tests beginning when Australian summer hits, between December and March. That’s when temperatures soar, and the energy system is taxed as residents crank up the AC and otherwise try to compensate for the blistering heat.
Tesla’s test with this facility isn’t just about dealing with the Australian summer, however – it’ll be a key proof point in helping prove out the long-term viability of renewable energy sources as a realistic total replacement for traditional, less environmentally friendly means of supplying the grid.

Featured Image: Mark Brake/Getty Images


Everyone loves drones, including companies with very specific needs. Drones once were the hot new thing and the perfect birthday gift. But drone makers are now realizing that there’s a bigger opportunity with commercial use cases, from farming to inspection. That’s why we’re excited to announce that three founders of three amazing companies in the drone industry will join us on stage at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin on December 4-5, 2017.
As we already announced, Henri Seydoux from Parrot is going to tell us about his company’s shift. Parrot has been a pioneer in the drone industry. The company took advantage of the accelerometers, gyroscopes, wireless chips and energy-efficient processors that you can find in smartphones to power tiny quadcopters.
But Parrot has also made multiple acquisitions for its commercial drone division. SenseFly, Airinov, MicaSense and Pix4D are now all owned by Parrot. The French company also owns multiple patents on drone technologies and sells integrated software and hardware solutions for firefighters, farmers and more.
Second, James Harrison from Sky-Futures has been building software solutions for drone inspections. The company first focused on the oil and gas industry. When you think about it, it’s so much easier to fly a drone around an offshore oil drilling platform to see if everything works fine.
Other industries also have a hard time keeping an eye on inaccessible sites. If you’re maintaining bridges, keeping an eye on wind turbines or overseeing construction sites, drones can be much cheaper than human inspection. Sky-Futures lets you record, log and share all your observations.
Finally, Clément Christomanos from Uavia has been working on remote aerial inspection. If you’ve ever played with a drone, you know that they have limited battery life and that you need to stay in range.
Uavia thinks this can be an issue if you need to inspect multiple sites around the country. You either need to train people on the ground or send drone pilots. With Uavia, you can control a drone thousands of miles away from your web browser.
Drones receive instructions from traditional cell towers and then go back to charging stations when they’re done. This can replace or supplement surveillance cameras in sensitive areas.
All those use cases are just the tip of the iceberg. Goldman Sachs recently shared a report on commercial drones. There are more than a dozen industries that could greatly benefit from using drones.
Get your Disrupt tickets right now to see the founders of Parrot, Sky-Futures and Uavia tell you everything about the future of drones. You’ll also see the Startup Battlefield competition, in which a handful of startups pitch our judges with the hopes of winning the coveted Disrupt Cup and a cash prize.
You’ll get to chat with plenty of promising startups in Startup Alley, see amazing talks on the main stage, and unwind after a long day at the show with a cocktail and some new friends at the Disrupt after party.
Do you run a startup? The Startup Alley Exhibitor Package is your best bet to get the greatest exposure by exhibiting your company or product directly on the Disrupt Berlin show floor.


The FTC has now put out a statement regarding the Uber data breach which the company concealed for the best part of a year before finally disclosing it, under new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, on Tuesday by passing details to Bloomberg.
Late yesterday a spokesperson for the federal agency told Reuters: “We are aware of press reports describing a breach in late 2016 at Uber and Uber officials’ actions after that breach. We are closely evaluating the serious issues raised.”
In October 2016 hackers had stolen personal data from 57 million Uber users and drivers, it revealed, including the names, email addresses and phone numbers of 50M Uber riders around the world, and personal information of about 7M drivers — including around 600,000 US driver’s license numbers.
The FTC’s statement is significant because Uber only settled a prior investigation into security and privacy complaints dating back to 2014 and 2015 and carried out by the agency this summer, when it agreed to 20 years of external audits and to abide by various conditions in the consent order.
The security breach the FTC was looking into then was far smaller than the freshly disclosed 2016 breach — with personal data of around 100,000 Uber drivers’ accessed during the May 2014 breach.
Although the attack vector used in both attacks is essentially the same: In 2014 an intruder gained access to an Amazon S3 Datastore Uber was using (and storing data in plain text) after one of its engineers had publicly posted the key to GitHub.
While in 2016 attackers were also able to access a private GitHub coding site used by Uber software engineers to grab login credentials and use those to access data stored on an Amazon Web Services account — where they unearthed an archive of rider and driver data.
The fact Uber allowed not one but two attacks to happen, spaced years apart, because engineers put access keys in a publicly accessible location suggests security was hardly being considered — let alone prioritized.
The FTC consent order settling the 2014 and 2015 complaints prohibited Uber from misrepresenting how it protects the privacy, confidentiality, security, or integrity of any personal information it handles and stores.
Yet almost immediately Uber signed the order it would likely have been in violation of the agreement — having still not disclosed (to the FTC, or to anyone outside the company) the much larger 2016 breach. And violations of FTC consent orders can result in civil penalties being issued.
“It appears they violated the FTC consent order before the ink was dry on it,” a former federal cybercrimes prosecutor now at the Ballard Spahr firm, Ed McAndrew, told CNET.
We’ve reached out to the FTC to ask whether it believes Uber has breached the prior consent order and also if it intends to open a formal investigation into the 2016 breach, and will update this story with any response.
In addition, while the US does not currently have a federal law requiring companies to inform the public about data breaches, the vast majority of states have enacted breach notification statutes of their own — which are typically a lot stricter than a full year’s time for disclosure.
So Uber is likely to have breached state laws by concealing the breach for so long.
Some of the breached data is also from markets outside the US. And regulators in other markets can be stricter. In the European Union, for example, a new law incoming in May 2018 will bring in a single breach notification standard across all 28 EU Member States that will require data controllers to inform regulators that personal data has been breached within 72 hours of becoming aware of an intrusion.
And while that law has not come in to force, expectations around breach disclosures are being reset to meet the new standard across the EU.
Yesterday, for example, the UK’s data watchdog said the concealed Uber data breach “raises huge concerns”, as well as warning that companies which deliberately conceal breaches from regulators can attract higher fines.

Featured Image: TechCrunch


In another example of Starling Bank jumping on the Open Banking/PSD2 train before legislation in the U.K. and Europe next year will force banks to do so, it is launching its latest API partnership: this time with Yoyo Wallet, the U.K.-based mobile payment and loyalty platform.
The new integration sees Yoyo use Starling’s Open Banking-compliant API to let you link your Starling bank account to your Yoyo Wallet so that whenever you pay at one of Yoyo’s retail partners using your Starling Bank card, you automatically collect any loyalty points on offer. This means that you don’t have to remember to pay using the Yoyo app (or, presumably, a retailer’s white labelled version), which otherwise requires opening the app and scanning a bar code.
Here’s how it works: To begin linking your Starling account to your Yoyo account, you open the Yoyo app and are asked to scan your Starling card using your phone’s camera, like you ordinarily do to add any card as a payment option to Yoyo Wallet. However, in this instance, Yoyo will recognise you bank with Starling and ask to you to authenticate with Starling and grant it permission to access certain data from your Starling account.
Once you’ve done so, any time you use your Starling card at Yoyo-accepting high street merchants, you instantly earn retailer-specific loyalty points, which can be exchanged for rewards, discounts and offers. Yoyo’s retailer partnerships include high street chains such as Planet Organic, Fernandez & Wells, Wrap It Up and HOP Vietnamese.
More broadly, this speaks to Starling Bank’s “marketplace banking” vision: the idea that your bank will provide you with access to a choice of third-party money-related apps and services. However, for now at least, Yoyo is simply making use of the Starling API and the partnership doesn’t see Yoyo Wallet listed in the Starling Marketplace portion of the Starling Bank app (although I’m told this is coming) and Yoyo Wallet’s item level receipt data doesn’t show up in the Starling Bank app, either.
This makes it a much less deep integration than Starling’s recent partnership with Flux, which also offers item level digital receipts and soon retail loyalty programs. That could change, of course, and I wouldn’t be surprised to see Yoyo more deeply integrate with Starling at a future date. After all, Starling’s marketplace banking strategy is to partner far and wide to create a network effect on both sides of its market where the app becomes more useful the more users and partners/integrations it adds.
Along with Flux, and now Yoyo Wallet, it has also integrated to varying degrees with offers platform Tail and savings app Moneybox. Meanwhile, a partnership with TransferWise was announced in March but has yet to see the light of day.


Portea Medical founder and CEO Meena Ganesh
Portea Medical, one of India’s biggest platforms for home healthcare visits, has raised $26 million in Series C funding to expand its service range. The round was led by Sabre Partners and MEMG CDC, with participation from returning investors Accel (which led Portea’s Series B two years ago), the World Bank Group’s International Finance Corporation and Qualcomm Ventures.
Portea has now raised a total of about $72.5 million. In a press statement, Sabre Partners founder and managing partner Rajiv Maliwal said Portea Medical “has played a key role in establishing the concept of consumer-led healthcare and we look forward to working with them as they continue to transform healthcare services in India beyond the hospital space.”
The demand for home healthcare is growing quickly in India, thanks to factors like an aging population and social changes that means fewer working-age adults are able to serve as full-time caretakers for elderly relatives. Some of Portea Medical’s main competitors include Nightingales Home Health Services, Healthcare At Home and Care24.
One of Portea’s specialities is an eldercare plan that is billed annually, since assisted living communities are a relatively new concept in India. Since its launch, it’s expanded its core offerings into three other segments: primary care, chronic disease management and post-operative care.
Portea partners with healthcare providers, including 50 hospitals, to enable home visits for patients who might have trouble traveling for checkups, like the elderly or physically disabled, or just want to avoid overcrowded hospitals. Its other products include lab tests where samples are taken at home and picked up by one of Portea’s couriers and B2B services for companies that want to provide employees with on-site vaccination programs or health screenings. Portea claims that it has served 250,000 customers in 16 cities so far.


Today’s Stories

Uber’s big data breach
Facebook to single out election trolls
Apple’s self-driving car research
FCC issues final draft of plan to kill net neutrality 

Credits
Written by: Brian HeaterHosted by: Brian HeaterFilmed by: Veanne CaoEdited by: John Murillo

Notes:

That’s it for this week. And for me. Tito’s back on Monday. A very Happy Thanksgiving to everyone attempting to explain net neutrality and bitcoin to their loved ones this holiday.


Ahead of Amazon’s big AWS division Re:invent conference next week, the company has announced two developments in the area of artificial intelligence. AWS is opening a machine learning lab, ML Solutions Lab, to pair Amazon machine learning experts with customers looking to build solutions using the AI tech. And it’s releasing new features within Amazon Rekognition, Amazon’s deep learning-based image recognition platform: real-time face recognition and the ability to recognize text in images.
The new lab and the enhancements to its image recognition platform underscore the push that Amazon and AWS are giving to AI at the company, both internally and as a potential area to grow its B2B business in this area. They come about a month after AWS announced it would be collaborating with Microsoft on Gluon, a deep learning interface designed for developers to build and run machine learning models for their apps and other services.
The fact that these two announcements were made today, a day before Thanksgiving, makes me wonder if AWS is laying groundwork for more AI news at Re:invent, or if they are indicating that this will not be a focus as it has been in previous years. It was last year that Amazon used Re:invent to announce Amazon AI, which is the division that will oversee the solutions lab.
The ML Solutions Lab — which Amazon said is available to any AWS Business Support customer — is an interesting development because it points to Amazon ramping up not just in AI, but in business consultancy, which is a key cornerstone of providing IT services to corporate customers at companies like IBM.
“We can’t wait for developers to start their journeys into machine learning with the Amazon ML Solutions Lab,” said Swami Sivasubramanian, vice president of Amazon AI, in a statement. “By combining the expertise of the best machine learning scientists and practitioners at Amazon with the deep business knowledge of our customers, the Amazon ML Solutions Lab will help customers get up to speed on machine learning quickly, and start putting machine learning to work inside their organizations.”
Early customers will include The Washington Post, Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical division Janssen and the World Bank Group.
The new Rekognition features, meanwhile, point not only to how Amazon continues to make major advances in computer vision, but its strong commitment to monetizing them by turning them into products for external customers.
Notably, one of the bigger customers using the new Rekognition features is Pinterest, which is interesting when you consider that image-related functions like search and classification are some of the company’s core features. Pinterest tells me the vast majority of their visual search tech is developed in-house; this Rekognition usage is part of smaller project.
“We’re in the early stages of exploring Rekognition with Amazon to scale a subset of Pins in AWS S3, but continue to have a visual discovery team dedicated to building and scaling technologies within Pinterest,” a spokesperson said.
Pinterest has been an AWS customer for years, with millions of Pins currently stored in an Amazon S3 cloud, so it makes sense that if Amazon has developed a new way to identify text in those images, it’s a logical choice to use it.
“As a visually-driven platform, Pinterest relies heavily on the speed and quality of images, but the text behind those images is just as important, as it provides context and makes Pins actionable for our 200M+ active Pinners,” said Vanja Josifovski, CTO, Pinterest. “In working with Amazon Rekognition Text in Image, we can better extract the rich text captured in images at scale and with low latency for the millions of Pins stored in Amazon S3. We look forward to continuing to develop the partnership with AWS for high quality and fast experiences for Pinners and businesses on Pinterest.”
Updated with more comment from Pinterest.

Featured Image: Getty Images


YouTube, that strange stew of the best and worst content on the web, is cracking down on abuse and error relating to kid-focused video. Jokers and questionably ethical creators who targeted kids or used them in their videos will have a harder time getting viewers and getting money.
The tendency of kids to watch a series of algorithmically suggested videos led some YouTubers to attempt to slip their content into the designated kid-friendly streams. Putting Peppa Pig in their video, for example, to get it recognized as featuring that friendly critter, then having Peppa Pig visit a slaughterhouse or something. Funny if you’re a bored teen, but not if you’re YouTube’s ad department.
Content with kids in it but not for kids has also been a problem. I don’t know why 150 million people want to watch a little girl cry through a blood-filled mouth for two minutes, and I don’t want to know. But it’s probably not the kind of thing you want queued up for the little ones.
In order to combat this “growing trend,” Google is battening down the hatches around kid-friendly content in a handful of ways:


Stricter content control. Now on warning: “content featuring minors that may be endangering a child, even if that was not the uploader’s intent” (that would be the mouthful of blood people) and “content with family entertainment characters but containing mature themes or adult humor.”




Demonetizing shady kid stuff. Peppa Pig goes to the ham factory won’t be getting any ad dollars.

Aggressive comment patrol on videos of kids. The comment section of YouTube is, to borrow Penny Arcade’s phrase, “like if the bottom of the barrel had its own barrel, with another bottom altogether, that then dripped on an ocean of diseased rats which then leapt into a rank sewer.” Videos found to have inappropriate (“abhorrent”) comments about the kids in them will have comments turned off altogether.

Better understanding context. Rick & Morty may be a cartoon, but you probably don’t want your 7-year-old watching it. Similarly, a sexy cosplay of Dora the Explorer (why?) doesn’t really qualify as educational content. So YouTube is “growing the number of experts we work with, and doubling the number of Trusted Flaggers we partner with in this area” to better track this kind of thing.

Hopefully that prevents a few parents from having to answer awkward questions about butchering methods or why a banana would need a hammock.


David Golden
Contributor


David Golden is a managing partner at Revolution Ventures. 


Every few years efforts to redefine the IPO emerge, and as night follows day, investors get hurt and calls for tighter regulatory reform echo in legislative chambers and cable TV studios. The last significant “re-invention” emerged in the height of the dot-com boom when online brokers started selling newly issued shares directly to retail customers. We all know how that ended.
Flash forward one generation: a newly formed company called Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings recently sold $600 million of stock to a trusting public and heralded their achievement, which it trademarked no less, as “IPO 2.0.” Their pitch is that young companies — even the current class of “unicorns” valued over $1 billion — have a very difficult time going public. Instead, the argument goes, it is easier for them to become public by merging into an entity that is already public and, voila, the young company has become a public company without the headache of actually engaging in an IPO. Perhaps a better moniker would have been “IPO 2.0-No.”
Social Capital Hedosophia is a “blank-check company.” That is, a corporation that has no specific business plan or purpose — other than to find a business and acquire it. Given the press around the offering (and the “2.0” branding), one would have thought there was actually something new here. Hardly.
Blank-check companies have been around for decades. They have been called “clean shell companies,” “blind pools,” “public shells” and, since the 1990s, the somewhat classier “special purpose acquisition companies” — SPACs. The basic model has remained the same: investors advance cash to the sponsors of the blind pool who look for something for the public shell company to acquire.
There are some modest protections for the investor. The funds are put in an escrow account, the target has to be valued at least 80 percent of the cash in the SPAC and the acquisition has to be completed within two years or the money is returned to the investors. Beyond that, there are not really any substantive limitations on what the SPAC can acquire. One might reasonably speculate that target acquisitions that do not look very attractive in month one start to look much better by month 24, as no sponsor wants to actually return the cash to the investors.
But the proponents of SPACs as an antidote to the IPO famine have it backwards: Historically, SPACs have been the avenue of last resort for companies that want to go public but can’t — either because underwriters won’t take them public or the public markets won’t embrace them.
Indeed, the relative scarcity of IPOs over the past several years has much less to do with the hassle of going public than it does with the (larger) hassle of actually being public. Many unicorns could go public today if they wanted to; indeed, I know many Wall Street bankers that are calling on them regularly to pitch the idea. But being public is a hassle and it is expensive: quarterly financial reports, daily gyrations of the share price, meetings with Wall Street analysts and public investors and greater legal liability for misstatements to the public.
Moreover, the private equity markets — both here and abroad — have been only too willing to finance many of these companies — often at valuations greater than the public markets would afford — so there has been no need to go public.
If you are not ready to be a public company, merging with a SPAC won’t make you ready.
 
In that sense, the SPAC is a solution looking for a problem. And, as it caters to those companies who can’t go public the conventional way, there is a tremendous adverse selection problem for the targets and an economic problem for the investors. For the target companies, an inability to go public “the regular way” is meaningful, and if you ignore the market when the market is speaking, you do so at your own peril.
As a conduit for weaker public companies, SPACs have an unparalleled record: they consistently underperform the broader equity markets and there is scholarly research that proves it (since 2003 SPACs have returned, on average, a negative 19.7 percent). That shouldn’t be surprising, because the quality of the acquired businesses — by definition — is lower than those that have been vetted by underwriters and the market. Historically, the companies that SPACs acquire make lousy public market investments, and that is because those companies are not mature enough for the pubic markets, and the public markets make lousy venture capitalists.
And if a company is ready for the public markets, there are substantial advantages to going public “the regular way.” First, a company in a traditional IPO gets to select its investors; the SPAC has already done that, and they may not be the supportive investors the company would prefer.
Then there is the process itself. The sponsors of Hedosophia would have us believe that merging with a SPAC is easier than filing for an IPO, but that simply is not true. As with an IPO, the merger with a SPAC requires all of the same business preparation, due diligence, prospectus-drafting, SEC engagement and regulatory oversight; even the paperwork is substantially similar (only it is called a merger proxy statement instead of an IPO prospectus).
After the acquisition, of course, the target is a public company, subject to the same hassles as any company that went public via a traditional IPO. But the biggest advantage to the traditional IPO over the SPAC is cost.
And therein lies the real motivation behind IPO 2.0. In the Hedosophia prospectus, under the innocuous caption “Founder Shares,” we learn that the sponsors of the SPAC have granted themselves 20 percent of the equity of the company. At the time of the deal, that was worth $120 million. You read that correctly. For the investors who capitalized the SPAC, that is a pretty substantial haircut to net asset value, and for a target company seeking a route to the public markets and for the investors who bank-rolled it, the SPAC sponsors will charge it a nine-figure toll to get there. In that context, the traditional investment banking fee of 5-7 percent of proceeds raised looks like quite a bargain.
So we are back to the adverse selection problem: Even if it cannot go public the traditional way, what target company is willing to take a $120 million discount on its fair market value to swap into a public shell? It should come as no surprise that the same scholarly work that showed the typical returns for SPAC investors to be a negative annual return of 3 percent also showed that the typical returns to SPAC sponsors were a positive 1,900 percent.
The conflict-of-interest is palpable: One might reasonably speculate that target acquisitions that do not look very attractive in month one start to look much better by month 18, as no sponsor wants to actually return the cash to investors and forgo the substantial value of the “founder shares.”
Companies in merger discussions with SPACs should tread carefully. If being public is the goal and the business is not substantial enough to pursue an IPO in the traditional fashion, the SPAC is an alternative, albeit a difficult one. If you are not ready to be a public company, merging with a SPAC won’t make you ready. And the discount to your fair market value that you will have to suffer will be substantial.

Featured Image: champc/Getty Images


Every year, Apple airs a new ad in the U.S. for Thanksgiving. Compared to other Apple ads, this is less about showing product features and more like a greeting card.
This year is no different — you still see a lot of AirPods. Apple’s new ad is called “Sway” and takes place in the streets of Prague. A woman starts playing Sam Smith’s “Palace” on her white iPhone X with her AirPods.
She then ends up in an alternate reality where she can dance around people without getting noticed. She bumps into a man, hands him an AirPod and starts dancing with him under the snow.
Fun fact: these two dancers are married in real life.


Business Insider recently reported that numerous families have grown frustrated with the education their children are receiving at AltSchool, an ambitious San Francisco-based edtech company that four years ago began opening physical grade schools and promising a personalized learning approach that would far surpass the standardized education most kids receive.
It’s not just parents who have growing concerns about AltSchool, however. Educators also question whether AltSchool is the next best thing in education, or whether instead the for-profit company could hamper the prospects of the children with whom it works, and those it might impact down the road.
Seemingly, exasperation with AltSchool has been building over the last year. It was then that the company — which had originally touted plans to expand its network of schools and classrooms —  publicly switched gears, announcing it would instead license its nascent program to other schools that want to embrace more individualized techniques.
Frustration has more recently reached a boiling point, with one mother comparing her children to “guinea pigs” in conversation with BI.
The term echoes conversations that we’ve also had with a handful of AltSchool families in recent months. At a September birthday party attended by numerous parents, one mother told us she’d pulled two children out of the program and placed them in a neighborhood public school; the rest of the parents in attendance said they were actively working to place their children elsewhere next fall. The biggest reason they cited was that their kids are falling behind academically. One mother, who asked not to be named, told us that in addition to paying yearly tuition of roughly $30,000, “We’re all spending a fortune on tutoring to supplement what our kids aren’t learning.”
Another mother of two at AltSchool told us she spoke recently to the head master of one of San Francisco’s toniest private schools, and he suggested to her that she transfer her children elsewhere if she hopes to see them admitted to the institution he oversees.
You got the right to be mad
Compounding their anger these days is AltSchool’s more recent revelation that its existing network of schools, which had grown to seven locations, is now being pared back to just four — two in California and two in New York. The move has left parents to wonder: did AltSchool entice families into its program merely to extract data from their children, then toss them aside?
Asked about such unhappiness, Max Ventilla, the former Google executive who founded and runs the company, tells us the decision to shrink AltSchool’s physical footprint can be traced to “greater demand than we were expecting” for AltSchool’s software — which it has already licensed to half a dozen private and public school systems, and for which it’s charging between $150 and $500 per student per year, depending on the size of the school.
“Our motivation for reducing the number of schools is so we can deliver the highest-quality experiences at schools that remain and with our limited resources, grow [the software side of AltSchool’s business] faster than originally planned,” says Ventilla.
He adds that the decision to close locations in Palo Alto, San Francisco’s Dogpatch neighborhood and New York City’s East Village has nothing to do with the company’s finances, as recently reported in Bloomberg. On the contrary he says, AltSchool is about to close its Series C round. It also has “$60 million in the bank and additional debt and funding we can draw on.”
Still, it’s probably valid to ask whether AltSchool should be productizing and selling its software to other schools already. Right now, both insiders and outsiders suggest it’s too soon.
Jennifer Carolan is a co-founder and general partner at Reach Capital, a venture fund focused on early-stage education technology start-ups. She notes that from the outset, AltSchool marketed the kind of personalized approach to education that parents are hungry for and that builds on a decades-long trend away from one-size-fits-all schooling to schooling that’s more tailored to the needs of individual children.
Nevertheless, she says, personalized learning is “extremely challenging to implement well.”  Indeed, while Carolan spent time at AltSchool when it was getting off the ground and concluded it had many innovative ideas, she worried that the availability of too much capital to the company while it was still iterating on its model may have led it to “scale prematurely.”
Reach chose not to invest. Other investors have dived in. AltSchool has so far raised $175 million, including from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and prominent venture firms, including Founders Fund and Andreessen Horowitz.
They say you gotta let it go
Paul France, an enthusiastic young educator who spent four years as a public school teacher before spending the next three years at AltSchool, understands well the school’s appeal. He also has concerns, however, particularly about the brand of personalized learning that AltSchool, and other newer schools, are promoting. “When I first arrived at AltSchool, we were opening new schools. There were lots of cool people to talk with and very cool ideals floating around.” He thought the “whole premise of personalized learning was very intriguing.”
Three years later, France says, he came to feel drastically different about the approach. “We live in this individualistic society that values personalized learning right now, almost to a fault. It’s ‘me, me, me.’ But it’s not a solution to any real problem in education.” In fact, says France, who now teaches in Chicago, AltSchool and its ilk may be unwittingly hamstringing both students and teachers by both creating too much individualized content for students (“that’s not how social systems or jobs work,” he notes), as well as unduly burdening teachers who are sometimes given unreal expectations to meet.
“There’s this assumption that every kid needs a different activity to meet their needs, and that by applying tech, one can simply send them individualized content through a video or activity card,” France says. “But that’s not necessarily true. It’s not best for kids to learn only through a video or other content that’s sent primarily for consumption. And tech that operates under this assumption really undermines educators and the value of good teaching.”
Ventilla readily acknowledges that AltSchool has had to rethink its approach to education.  When Altschool started out, he says, it was premised on being “operationally focused, focused on facilities, ensuring great teachers were hired, and dealing with admissions, customer support and service as problems arose, but not engaging in pedagogic experience. We weren’t focusing on how students and teachers engage. We figured instead that students would be well served if we got out of the way.”
What AltSchool learned is “that wasn’t the case,” he continues. “If we want the experience to be student-centered, the teachers and students and heads of schools need more support within the four walls of the classroom.”
Now tell ’em
Ventilla insists that AltSchool — which currently employs 180 people, including educators, technologists and business operations staff — has since worked out many of its kinks and seen a “massive improvement  in satisfaction of parents overall and progress that students are making with both academic and non-academic standards.”
Of the 30 children who graduated from AltSchool last year, says Ventilla, every one was accepted into his or her first- or second-choice school. He further adds that 92 percent of families who’ve responded to questions about their experience at AltSchool say they are satisfied with it, up from 85 percent last year.
Two Bay Area families to which we were pointed underscore this sentiment. Sharon Grehan, an executive at Gilead Sciences, has a second-grader enrolled at AltSchool, and though she’ll need to move him to a different location next fall because his particular school is closing, she says her intention is to stay with the organization.
“The social-emotional component is just as important, if not more important, than the academic component at AltSchool, and that’s important to me,” says Grehan of her attraction to the school. “Before joining AltSchool three years ago, my son wouldn’t participate in a group, he wouldn’t interact with peers, he felt bad about himself. Now he loves life, he loves school and he has lots of friends. The personalized education piece is very key for him.”
Grehan says she did have concerns last year when she was receiving status reports from her son’s teachers at 11 p.m. at night. “I was worried about teacher burnout,” she says. But she says such posts, which get pushed to parents through an app called Stream, are fewer and farther between and now mostly include “updates on field trips, social events and, periodically, things they want to communicate to me about my son specifically, like about a fear that he has overcome, or something funny he did that they are tickled by.”
Another mother, Sandya Mysoor, who teaches bullying prevention and has daughters in second and fifth grade at the school, says she is similarly committed to staying at AltSchool for the duration. “We knew we were rolling the dice” by signing up for a brand-new school, she says. “I didn’t know what would happen, but it was, ‘Let’s see how this goes.’ ”
There have been “tons of changes since,” says Mysoor. She hasn’t been surprised by this, though. “I’d say the changes they’ve made are typical and play on the same track as any startup” that’s always iterating to improve its offering. “No school has gotten it exactly right, but our experience is [AltSchool is] trying harder and deeper than other schools.”
Hopefully, the parents will feel as enthusiastic about the school as their children age, assuming the schools remain open. Ventilla, whose daughter currently attends AltSchool, says they will. “I’m applying for our four-year-old son,” he says, “and my expectation is this will be the school he graduates from — maybe even from high school down the line.”
What if there is no AltSchool high school? With the distinct possibility in mind, we reach out to the head of the private high school who we’d been told was less than enthusiastic about AltSchool. We ask if it’s true that he has concerns about AltSchool graduates. He clarifies his comments, saying that his school “looks at the background of applicants on a student-by-student basis,” but he adds that “some” might have concerns about its curriculum.
“Schools are hard,” adds this person, who asked not to be named. “Trying to develop good schools and good software are different enterprises. It may be hard to do both.”


French startup Snips is now helping you build a custom voice assistant for your device. Snips doesn’t use Amazon’s Alexa Voice Service or Google Assistant SDK — the company is building its own voice assistant so that you can embed it on your devices. And the best part is that it doesn’t send anything to the cloud as it works offline.
If you want to understand how a voice assistant works, you can split it into multiple parts. First, it starts with a wakeword. Snips has a handful of wakewords by default, such as “Hey Snips,” but you can also pay the company to create your own wakeword.
For instance, if you’re building a multimedia robot called Keecker, you can create a custom “Hey Keecker” hot word. Snips then uses deep learning to accurately detect when someone is trying to talk to your voice assistant.
The second part is automatic speech recognition. A voice assistant transcribes your voice into a text query. Popular home assistants usually send a small audio file with your voice and use servers to transcribe your query.
Snips can transcribe your voice into text on the device itself. It works on anything that is more powerful than a Raspberry Pi. For now, Snips is limited to English and French. You’ll have to use a third-party automatic speech recognition API for other languages.
Then, Snips needs to understand your query. The company has developed natural language capabilities. But there are hundreds, or even thousands of different ways to ask a simple question about the weather for instance.
That’s why Snips is launching a data generation service today. I saw a demo yesterday, and the interface looks like Automator on macOS or Workflow on iOS. You define some variables, such as “date” and “location”, you define if they are mandatory for the query and you enter a few examples.
But instead of manually entering hundreds of variations of the same query, you can pay $100 to $800 to let Snips do the work for you. The startup manually checks your request then posts it on Amazon Mechanical Turk and other crowdsourcing marketplaces. Finally, Snips cleans up your data set and sends it back to you.
You can either download it and reuse it in another chatbot or voice assistant, or you can use it with Snips’ own voice assistant. You can also make your capability public. Other Snips users can add this capability to their own assistant by browsing a repository of pre-trained capabilities.



Step 1. Create Intent




Step 2. Choose datagen package




Step 3. Confirm results




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


A Snips voice assistant typically requires hundreds of megabytes but is quite easy to update. After installing the Snips app on your device, you just need to replace a zip library file to add new capabilities.
You also need to implement the actual actions. Snips only translates what someone is saying into a parsable query. For instance, Snips can understand that “could you please turn on the bedroom light?” means “light + bedroom + on.” A developer still needs to implement the action based on those three parameters.
Developers are already playing with Snips to test its capabilities. But the company hopes that big device manufacturers are going to embed Snips into their future products. Eventually, you could think about a coffee maker with a Snips voice assistant.
Compared to Amazon’s or Google’s wide-ranging assistants, Snips thinks that you don’t need to embed a complete voice assistant into all your devices. You only want to tell your Roomba to start vacuuming — no need to let you start a Spotify playlist from your vacuum cleaner.
This approach presents a few advantages when it comes to privacy and network effects. Big tech companies are creating ecosystem of internet-of-things devices. People are buying lightbulbs, security cameras and door locks that work with the Amazon Echo for instance.
But if you can talk to the devices themselves, you don’t need to hook up your devices with a central home speaker — the central hub disappears. If voice assistants are more than a fad, Snips is building some promising technology. And Snips could get some licensing revenue for each device that comes with its voice assistant.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


On December 14, the FCC will vote on whether or not to roll back Obama-era policies protecting a free and open internet. In fact, during yesterday’s announcement of the upcoming vote, the FCC neglected to mention the historic 22 million comments on the issue, the majority of which were opposed to its rollback.
In response, protests are being held on December 7 at Verizon retail stores across the country. The protests were organized by Demand Progress, Fight For The Future, and FreePress Action Fund.
Here’s what the protest organizers have to say on their event page:
Ajit Pai is clearly still working for Verizon, not the public. But he still has to answer to Congress. So we’re calling on our lawmakers to do their job overseeing the FCC and speak out against Ajit Pai’s plan to gut Title II net neutrality protections and give Verizon and other giant ISPs everything on their holiday wishlist.
If you need a quick refresher on Net Neutrality, check out John Oliver’s explainer below or go in-depth with this post from TechCrunch writer Devin Coldewey.

The long story short on Net Neutrality is that it protects consumers and the internet from ISPs who might want to create internet ‘fast lanes’ for content or websites that they prefer or that pay them more.
So why protest at Verizon stores?
FCC Chairman Ajit Pai used to work for Verizon as associate general counsel before landing at the Federal Communications Commission. Verizon has also been a staunch opponent to Net Neutrality, lobbying for a roll-back and spending millions in lawsuits to ditch Title II.
Editor’s Notes: Verizon is the parent company of Oath, which is the parent company to TechCrunch.


The FCC yesterday announced a December 14 vote on “Restoring Internet Freedom,” an order that, far from restoring freedom to the internet, which is already free, would allow it to be restricted in new and harmful ways. Actually, when you think of it as restoring internet freedom to ISPs and cable companies, it makes a lot more sense. At any rate the Commission has released the text of the order ahead of the vote, as promised.
It was just put out half an hour ago and it’s about 200 pages long, so it’ll take some time for me and others to sift through it and find out what kind of changes have been made since the draft circulated in late summer.
Although an FCC representative yesterday said that “we addressed all the serious comments,” that can’t quite be true, since the core of the order is still intact: remove broadband’s telecommunications designation, removing the statutory authority for the 2015 rules (Title II of the Communications Act), and returning to a “light touch” regulatory framework under which ISPs will be permitted within reason to throttle and prioritize traffic. Lots of other little presents for the telecoms in there, too.
There will be some new information in this revised draft, however: the wording of its highly questionable definition of broadband as an information service could figure into its legal future, for instance, as would any indication of plans to preempt state regulations, which those states may not agree with.
Any substantive changes will be documented in a future article after we’ve had a change to look over the full text and confer with experts.


Facebook is building out a tool to show which Facebook Pages or Instagram accounts associated with Russia’s Internet Research Agency election troll farm you Liked or followed. Launching by the end of the year as part of the Facebook Help Center, the tool will show a list of all the IRA accounts you followed.
The IRA is a group based in St. Petersburg, Russia with ties to the Kremlin. It’s been exposed as an office organizing purposeful disinformation campaigns to disrupt the 2016 U.S. presidential election by sowing division in the country. Facebook is now on a mission to thwart future election meddling, and be as transparent as possible about previous election interference.

However, this tool will not show whether you saw ads or organic posts from the Russian troll accounts. That’s important, because paid reach and reshared posts by other users are how many of the 146 million Facebook and Instagram users encountered election interference content. Facebook has said 29 million Americans saw Russian troll content directly shared to their feeds, but 126 million total saw posts including reshares, with 10 million seeing ads. Twenty million Americans saw a combination of Russian troll ads and direct posts on Instagram.
Providing a list of all the individual Russian interference posts a user saw or interacted with could be more useful. At the very least, this new tool could list accounts whose content users saw or clicked, even if they didn’t follow the account that created it. But Facebook has contended it would be technically difficult to dredge up all that information. During the Senate hearing on election interference, Facebook general counsel Colin Stretch said “It’s a much more challenging issue to identify and notify reliably people who may have been exposed to this content on an individual basis.”
Congress gave Facebook, Google and Twitter until today to detail plans for improved transparency around election interference, so we’ll see if Google and Twitter come out with their own disclosures.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Apple has a new paper published in Cornell’s arXiv open directory of scientific research, describing a method for using machine learning to translate the raw point cloud data gathered by LiDAR arrays into results that include detection of 3D objects, including bicycles and pedestrians, with no additional sensor data required.
The paper is one of the clearest looks yet we’ve had at Apple’s work on self-driving technology. We know Apple’s working on this because it’s had to admit as much in order to secure a self-driving test permit from the California Department of Motor Vehicles, and because its test car has been spotted in and around time.
At the same time, Apple has been opening up a bit more about its machine learning efforts, publishing papers to its own blog highlighting its research, and now also sharing with the broader research community. This kind of publication practice is often a key ingredient for top talent in the field, who hope to work with the broader community to advance ML tech in general.
This specific picture describes how Apple researchers, including paper authors Yin Zhou and Oncel Tuzel, created something called VoxelNet that can extrapolate and infer objects from a collection of points captured by a LiDAR array. Essentially, LiDAR works by creating a high-resolution map of individual points by emitting lasers at its surrounding and registering the reflected results.
The research is interesting because it could allow LiDAR to act much more effectively on its own in self-driving systems. Typically, the LiDAR sensor data is paired or ‘fused’ with info from optical cameras, radar and other sensors to create a complete picture and perform object detection; using LiDAR alone with a high degree of confidence could lead to future production and computing efficiencies in actual self-driving cars on the road.


When you go through a big life event — say a milestone birthday for a parent or a wedding — there are probably going to be a lot of mini-events that happen before and after the big one. But you might not think to hire a professional photographer for them and stick with a couple phone cameras because it can be tough to find those photographers.
So Minted, a company that’s been around for quite a while and traditionally known for cards and stationery, is now launching a service to streamline that process and make it easy to summon a skilled photographer to document events like those. Though the process might be tied closely with, say, family portraits, it’s pretty easy to see how getting a photographer quickly ahead of a life event that there’s a good chance has a higher level of skill than you with your iPhone could convince people to pull out their wallets.
Minted users can pay around $100 to book a 30-minute session with a photographer on Minted’s platform, which vets its photographers to make sure they can deliver a certain level of quality. The photographers more or less have some creative freedom, but the important thing the company stresses is that they fit what the customers want. Users go through a short quiz or survey to ask what they might want as part of their photos — like what kinds of poses, or the photo effects at the end — and then it goes from there. After that, they’ll get retouched photos within a few days, as well as suggestions for things like holiday cards.
“What’s surprising is there are all these ancillary wedding events, like bridesmaids going out,” CEO Mariam Naficy said. “There are all things like, ‘we went to the salon together.’ There are all these mini-events under the wedding umbrella. They wanted to use photo-op because it wasn’t expensive. They trusted our brand. What we found, in general, was that there are lots of events in peoples’ lives that they’d like to have documented that they would use this service for.”
Naficy said Minted is able to take a slimmer margin on the process than a normal gig-focused platform might take because it offers those customers a way to use the content the photographers create in other products. So, if you wanted to create cards, you could pass the photos that these photographers create into other kinds of stationery — the kinds of things Minted is originally known for — all within a single service. Though people might not want to go through Minted specifically, it may remove enough friction to get people to stick around on the platform.
“I’m taking my store into the house, we’ll come take your portrait and also buy your card,” Naficy said. “In terms of where we go next and the innovation, I think it’s necessary for us to really meet the demand for today’s time-starved customer. I think it potentially could mean get out of thinking about stores and getting someone to your house. That’s how the conversation evolved. We started thinking about it in January or February, but we tend to launch things pretty quickly at Minted. We take an Amazon approach — we try it out and build it.”

That roughly $100 price point (which Naficy is intentionally a nice round number because it helps convince users that it’s a high-quality product) isn’t necessarily set in stone, as she says the company is still figuring out the exact price point. But in order to convince photographers to get onto Minted when there are other platforms out there — especially as they have to go through a vetting process, which may involve taking test photos — it’s going to have to offer some kind of a compelling business opportunity.
“I think, the price point in general though is one where we can fairly pay the photographer and attract enough people,” she said. “This is an independent group of photographers — these are not minted employees — and we’re transforming people who have free time into staff photographers. So we have to set a price where we can fairly compensate people to attract the workforce and make some margin for us. It’s really hard to test price. If you ask consumers in a focus group about price, they’re often not very accurate.”
It’s all part of getting freelance photographers who might have a real set of skills and are even better than those that are already paid professionals an opportunity to turn that habit into a real business. (Minted reached out to clarify that the platform was not geared toward being better than current professionals, but about “making it more accessible to photogaphers and the consumer.”)
And the vetting process — ensuring that higher bar of quality — is part of the reason the company will be able to differentiate itself from other completely open platforms, Naficy said. Though other platforms likely make sure they have high-quality professionals (like, say, Thumbtack), Naficy said there’s a higher quality bar to ensure Minted users that are already coming to the site for those kinds of important life events are getting what they pay for.
That, and Minted will take weird requests like switching heads on different bodies.
“Our brand is really focused on great design and quality,” Naficy said. “That’s what we’re anchored in, our customers trust us for that. For years, I think many people who have not ordered from us, don’t realize we actually scale during the holiday with hundreds of designers. They join or the season and help edit all their cards. We photoshop a lot of photos upon request. They’ll be happy to do anything, we’ve been doing this for ten years. There’s an aesthetic sense at Minted as well as know how working and training large groups of professionals to provide a modern design look.”
The pilot is launching in San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles. Minted is funded by Benchmark IDG Ventures, Menlo Ventures, Norwest Venture Partners, Technology Crossover Ventures and other angel investors. The company has raised $90 million to date.


Ho hum, Salesforce announced its quarterly earnings yesterday and the news was all good once again with revenue up 25 percent to $2.68 billion. The company has blown through its $10 billion yearly revenue goal and has boldly set one for $20 billion by FY2022. I wouldn’t put it passed them.
The company also announced some big executive moves. More on that later
Salesforce is the anti-IBM. While Big Blue has had 22 straight quarters of declining revenue, Salesforce has been on a steady increase over the last several years. The company’s quarterly revenue going back three years to Q32015 has almost doubled from $1.38B to this quarter’s $2.68B.

It has been a steady march upward, making that climb to $10B faster than any software company ever and CEO and chairman Marc Benioff had every right to crow about it in the earnings call.
“In fact as the fastest growing enterprise software company ever to reach $10 billion, we are now targeting to grow the company organically to more than $20 billion by fiscal year 2022 and we plan to do that to be the fastest enterprise software company ever to get to $20 billion,” Benioff said.
One way the company has been able to achieve that kind of growth has been through international expansion. That’s actually one place that at least one analyst, Mark Tepper of Strategic Wealth Partners said he would be watching closely to see how they were doing in that area, according to an article on CNBC.
Well, Tepper had to be pleased with what he saw. Salesforce’s Keith Block, the company’s president, vice chairman and chief operating office, said that 40% of new hires this years were outside the US and the investment seemed to be paying off with bigger growth numbers overseas than in the Americas.
Photo: Salesforce
Benioff also announced that Bret Taylor, who came over in the $750M Quip deal last year got a promotion when he became president and chief product officer. “Bret is going to drive our product vision, design, development and go-to-market strategy,” Benioff explained. Meanwhile Alex Dayon, who had been in the CPO role got promoted to president and Chief Strategy Officer. “Alex is going to lead strategic initiatives working more closely with our customers on product direction and transformation,” he said.
Both moves are designed to bring a new generation of leadership to the company, which should help Salesforce from stagnating or getting too comfortable with its success, but the company does have a lot of presidents with Taylor and Dayon joining Block , CFO Mark Hawkins and Chief People Officer Cindy Robbins all holding that title. President could be the new vice president at Salesforce.
Ray Wang, founder and principal analyst at Constellation Research says this isn’t so much about being top heavy as the way the company chooses to distinguish certain executive roles. “I think the way to look at it is they have a lot of CXO’s, ” he said. “The way to distinguish officers from CXO’s is the President title, but the promotions are well deserved and the title puts them on equal standing with the rest of the executive team,” he explained.
Wang also thinks that Taylor earned his way into the title by proving his mettle after the acquisition, and that Dayon was ready to try a different role. “Alex now gets to focus on strategy after years of honing his chops on product and service offerings,” Wang said.
The approach seems to be working. While the stock is down slightly this morning, it’s just under its one year high of 107.49. It’s unclear why Wall Street isn’t reacting more positively to yesterday’s report (at least temporarily), but the company continues its growth trajectory and the future looks bright.


Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


Since blockchain technologies appeared people have been trying to figure out how to put traditional assets like currencies, bonds and other financial instruments onto it in a way which has regulatory compliance and is secure. If you could do that you could sell securities in a legitimate way, thus disrupting large swathes of the asset management industry. In case you didn’t happen to know, the asset management industry is worth around $69 trillion or more, globally. But you have to hold these assets in wallets. And it’s not easy getting it right.
There are already a number of players in this space. Tether is a cryptocurrency issued on the Bitcoin blockchain via the Omni Layer Protocol. This allows users to trade and use digital tokens backed by the US Dollar. Each of their ‘USDT’ cryptocurrency tokens is allegedly backed by this real currency held in Tether’s reserves and can be redeemed through the Tether Platform. LAToken is a blockchain protocol and platform for creating and trading listed equity asset tokens. And Blackmoon Crypto is designed to enable traditional asset managers create and manage tokenized funds in a legally compliant manner (i.e. not go to jail!).
But this world is not easy and is fraught with problems. Tether recently claimed it was robbed of $31 million in tokens after a malicious attack.
And just recently the leading Ethereum developer, Parity, accidentally permanently froze over $160 million worth of user funds because of a fault in its wallet. Oops!
Now a new company claims it will be able to fix some of these problems, especially as it concerns wallets.
Jibrel Network, a company registered in the so-called “crypto-valley” of the Swiss canton of Zug, specializes in blockchain implementations for banks and so-called ‘Non-Bank Financial Institutions’. It recently raised $3 million from crypto investors including TaaS Fund, Tech Squared, Aurora Partners, Arabian Chain, among others.
With few robust Ethereum wallets available, and hacks continuing, the team decided to build its own.
It’s now launched the jWallet, a product aimed at consumers which, the company says, can store financial assets such as currencies, commodities, bonds and equities, on the Ethereum blockchain. The Alpha version of the wallet, which provides a simple way to store, transfer and convert ERC20 tokens, comes out today. jWallet holds no user data and all keys are stored locally.
Most wallets have to make the decision to either sacrifice security or usability. But the jWallet can be run locally, is open source and a mobile version is also available.
“There is a growing need for reliable, enterprise-grade wallet solutions, that deliver the highest levels of user-friendliness, without sacrificing security,” says Victor Mezrin, CTO.
Unlike Tether, which provides only USD in the form of ERC-20 tokens, Jibrel has created tokens for six fiat currencies (USD, GBP, EUR, RUB, AED, CNY).
Yazanz’s Barghuthi (project lead at Jibrel Networks) criticised Tether’s approach: “As it stands, Tether requires centralization with reliance on traditional banking… Simply put, in tether, users purchased USDT directly from an exchange, whereas in Jibrel, one purchases JNT and then uses that to purchase asset-backed tokens from the Jibrel DAO.”
Fighting talk.
Jibrel’s advisory board includes Don Tapscott (of Thinkers50 and author of ‘Blockchain Revolution’) and Eddy Zuaiter (former COO Soros Fund).

Featured Image: Jolanta Petraityte / EyeEm/Getty Images


With the UK government continuing to face down criticism over how it is handling plans to remove the UK from the European Union, today the country’s Chancellor Philip Hammond delivered an annual Autumn Budget that underscored its continuing push to win over the tech world.
In a wide-ranging speech laying out proposals for investment and taxes for individuals and businesses, the government laid out its commitment to innovation, and specifically artificial intelligence (AI), immersive technology, driverless cars, life sciences and FinTech. Among the initiatives: a range of investments for new technologies like AI and 5G that add up to over £500 million ($663 million); wider tax breaks and other schemes to bring more investment into the sector; and laying the groundwork for making it easier to build and test new technology in the UK, such as new rules that will let companies test self-driving cars without safety operators.
“A new tech business is funded every hour and I want that to be every half hour,” Hammond said in his speech. “So today we invest over £500 million in a range of initiatives from artificial intelligence to  5G and full-fibre broadband.”
The Budget’s tech developments come a week after Hammond and Prime Minister Theresa May unveiled £80 million in tech programs, along with an expansion of its work visa scheme for highly-skilled people.
As with that news, the UK government is aiming to reassure tech companies, those who are building them and working for them, and those who invest in them, that the UK is committed to making sure that the sector continues to thrive regardless the country leaving the EU.
This is important because the tech sector has been a juggernaut for the last several years in the UK economy — employing 1.5 million people, growing faster than the UK economy, and bringing in nearly £7 billion of investment last year. But one of the biggest concerns about Brexit has been its impact it will have on the economy and the UK’s ability to attract talent and investment and businesses from abroad once the UK is no longer interlinked with the continent.
In the short term, Brexit has already had a chilling effect, with the value of the pound dropping badly against other currencies, some investments getting put on hold as people wait to see how everything will play out, and even some startups reconsidering their options in terms of where to set up and grow.
Here is a rundown of the tech highlights in today’s Budget:
Investment: Over the next 10 years, the government proposes to spend £20 billion “to finance growth in innovative firms”. This will include a new £2.5 billion investment fund at the British Business Bank, which will co-invest with the private sector to bring the total invested up to £7.5 billion. The intention is to use this in part to offset a departure of funding from the European Investment Fund in the wake of Brexit. “We stand ready to step in to replace European Investment Fund lending if needed,” Hammond promised today.
Along with its own investment fund, the government is also doubling the allowance for tax breaks to VC firms and others that invest in “knowledge-intensive companies” (read: tech startups). The Enterprise Investment Scheme, as the initiative is called, is also going to be refocused so that it doesn’t emphasize “low-risk” businesses as much, to help channel the investing and subsequent tax breaks to businesses that are focusing on more emerging (and more risky) problems and solutions.
It will also work to improve how pension funds can invest in the tech sector. This is a key area for tapping capital, since pension funds collectively have some £2 trillion under management. Currently the UK lags behind countries like Canada in helping those groups figure out routes to investing in tech, which has been seen in the past to be too risky, but has clearly evolved, producing some of the world’s most valuable companies. (My personal opinion though is that I hope this isn’t made too easy to do: tech remains a risky business, with many startups and bigger companies failing all the time, and pension funds are a lifeline for many, so combining those could potentially be a disaster if handled badly.)
Cybersecurity: This will also have its own investment fund, “a National Security Strategic Investment Fund to invest in advanced technologies to contribute to the national security mission.” The Budget doesn’t specify a size to this fund, but it will also involve partnering with business angels to foster investments. Cybersecurity was also singled out in the Budget with a commitment of £10 million to create facilities to test the security of 5G networks, in partnership with the National Cyber Security Centre.
Artificial intelligence. As with the rest of the world, the UK is doubling down on AI to capitalise on the many forms that this will take in the years to come. One topline development is that the UK plans to establish “the world’s first national advisory body for artificial intelligence” with the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation will set standards for the use and ethics of AI and data, with the aim to lay the groundwork for “practical development” in the field. It will be conducting an independent review of AI to get things started.
The plan is to invest at least £75 million into the field of AI, to build “data trusts” to help train and run AI systems; to establish “AI fellowships” and to provide grants to fund 450 PhDs in the field “to secure the UK’s leading position in the global AI market.”
There were some other interesting pockets It also plans to put in £30 million towards “digital courses using AI” as part of a larger retraining scheme for the UK workforce.
Autonomous vehicles. One specific area of AI that the UK wants to be active in is driverless cars, citing research that projects that this will be a £28 billion industry in the UK, employing 27,000 people, when it’s up and running. As part of this — perhaps controversially — the UK wants to establish a looser framework for testing self-driving vehicles “without a safety operator.” It’s also planning to put £100 million more into a scheme to help people switch over to battery-powered electric cars.
Somewhat related to the automotive effort, the Budget also gave a little oxygen to an overhaul of the country’s geospatial data. “The UK has some of the best geospatial data in the world, and much of it is held by public bodies,” the Budget says. “The potential economic value of this data is huge.” Indeed, it’s a necessary component not just of mobile apps and other basic mapping services, but it will be an essential part of how self-driving cars will be able to manoeuvre themselves without human involvement, among other applications. The government plans to put aside £40 million annually for the next two years to figure out how to free up and commercialise some of this data.
If you’ve ever thought that regulators are somewhat ridiculous for taking too long to reach decisions and wield their power over too-powerful companies, then you might be interested to hear that the Budget also contained a provision called the “Regulators’ Pioneer Fund“, £10 million that will be used to help regulators figure out how to tap into some of the newer innovations in data science and other tech to do their jobs better.
An even smaller shout-out was given to the gaming industry — surprising considering how many successful games companies have come out of the UK over the years. The government said that it plans to throw £1 million more into the UK Games Fund each year until 2020 to help finance and support early-stage games developers.
Taxes. In addition to investments, the Budget also touches on the role the tech industry will pay in how monies are collected.
The amount of taxes that large tech businesses pay — or should we say the lack of taxes that large tech businesses pay — has been a flashpoint topic for years now, where questions have been raised over whether large tech giants like Google, Amazon and Apple are paying their fair share of taxes here when their businesses are organised to minimise that amount.
While Europe has gotten involved in the Apple tax case in Ireland and Amazon’s business in Luxembourg, and is currently going through its own proposals to figure out how to plug the tax gap in digital services, the UK has now published its own consultation into the area.
“The government remains committed to tackling tax evasion and avoidance, aggressive tax planning and non-compliance, including those seeking to evade or avoid tax using offshore structures,” the Budget notes.
The UK government says that to date it has collected nearly £160 billion in additional tax revenues since 2010 and is aiming to do more on this front by reforming tax laws in light of what it describes as “the changing nature of our economies in the digital age,” and more specifically the fact that where a product is ordered and paid for, and from where it is delivered to a consumer, may not always be the same country where that product is ultimately used.
The issue of collecting taxes is a thorny one, above and beyond all of the policies and macroeconomic trends that may get impacted by Brexit — and it represents yet another area where the UK is trying to tread carefully as it lays out its carrots to entice the tech world to stay and grow here.
Read the full budget here.

Featured Image: Phil Dolby/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE


Following the news yesterday morning that the FCC will be voting on the proposal to kill net neutrality come December 14, officials and advocacy organizations have been issuing statements left and right decrying the impending upending of the internet as we know it. Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI) is among them, but took a moment to talk with TechCrunch about his misgivings in a bit more detail.
“We’re not surprised, but we are disappointed,” he said. “I’ve spoken with the Commissioner numerous times on this and I’d hoped he would take a less partisan path.”
“Partisan” may strike some as a strange description for an issue that is largely one concerning technical details and legal precedents, but if net neutrality was ever merely an issue of bits and bytes, it has become a politically charged one over the last few years. Commissioner Pai’s own repeated insistence that the 2015 rules were a plot by the Obama administration confirm that he and his team consider it so, as well.
“People in the tech community may not like politics because it seems less interesting or less pure than what they’re doing,” said Senator Schatz. “But you see the result of not caring about politics. This is no longer an abstract problem.”
We can generate a lot of emails and that’s great. But the moment those emails are converted to votes, we win.It’s perhaps unfair to say that the tech world doesn’t participate in politics: most internet-reliant companies (as opposed to internet providers) have come out publicly for net neutrality, and online efforts are largely to be credited with producing the huge amount of comments on the FCC’s proposal to end it. But these statements of support carry little political weight.
“It always helps to build pressure at the FCC level,” he continued, “but this is about us losing elections. They have a 3:2 edge at the FCC because we lost. We have to understand that when we vote in 2020, we’re voting on the future of the internet. We can generate a lot of emails and that’s great. But the moment those emails are converted to votes, we win.”
Senator Schatz has been outspoken about his opposition to the current FCC plan, and along with a handful of others in both houses of Congress, notably the House Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats, has put pressure on the Commission to explain itself beyond the occasional well-manicured public statement.
But despite their best efforts, the vote appears to be more or less a done deal, Senator Schatz agreed.
“I think we have a chance in the short run to win through litigation,” he speculated, “and I personally will be exploring the possibility of a legislative compromise.”
I personally will be exploring the possibility of a legislative compromise.Although the Senator declined to elaborate when I asked him about the litigation idea (not his department, really), he did have some to say about the possibility of changing the law.
“My point of view — and by the way, I had this point of view when it was President Obama and Tom Wheeler, to the chagrin of my progressive friends — is that we should legislate,” he said (I took his comment to mean it would have been unpopular in 2014 to embark on a parallel track to moot an effort endorsed by the president). “That would provide the stability that comes with a bipartisan bill. But it’s not at all clear to me that in this polarized environment that we can find the common ground.”
Nor is it clear that a bipartisan bill would provide the stability he envisions; the 1996 Telecommunications Act, which is at the heart of all this conflict, was itself passed with quite a bipartisan crowd, but has been the subject of endless debate and litigation. Still, it has provided a strong platform on which, at least, we can argue over details.
Alas, Senator Schatz suggested any such bill is still a ways off:
“The Republicans interested in a compromise seem interested in enshrining ‘no blocking, no throttling, no paid prioritization’ into the statute. But if the FCC doesn’t have rulemaking or enforcement authority, then that statute is meaningless.”
That would be the case if the FCC removes broadband (mobile and fixed) from the Title II classification, which applies to telecommunications services and allows the Commission broad authority over them. Without that authority, many of the existing rules would be unenforceable.
“The good news is the Republicans have started to say the right things about net neutrality,” said the Senator. “The bad news is we’re not particularly close on what a bill would look like.”
He agreed that the cynical rollback of privacy rules via Congressional Review Act in March likely helped galvanize the electorate and perhaps cause a few people to cross party lines in order to better address the concerns of voters. (Listening to one’s constituency is unusual in politics, but not entirely unheard of.)
“I think the privacy CRA awakened a giant, but now we have to do the hard work of organizing,” said the Senator. “We have the beginnings of a real powerful coalition, but we haven’t converted it to votes and that’s why we’re losing.”
I remarked that sounded a bit gloomy, but that surely such beginnings are reason to be hopeful.
“It’s absolutely hopeful!” he said. “It’s a brand new movement — just one that’s used to interacting with itself online. This has to be a real political movement that does things in real life. We’ve got work to do.”

Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images


All good things, as they say, must come to an end. That definitely holds true for early-bird pricing on Disrupt Berlin tickets. In just a few short hours — at midnight tonight, local Berlin time to be precise — the general admission ticket price increases 30 percent.
Buy your tickets today, before the clock strikes 12, and you pay €833. But at 12:01, the price goes up to €1190 (all pricing includes VAT). The early bird flies the coop, and the late bird won’t get the worm — in this case, substantial savings.
Disrupt Berlin promises non-stop excitement spanning two jam-packed days (four if you’re lucky enough to score free tickets to participate in the Hackathon on December 2-3). Here’s a taste of what you can expect:

World-class speakers on the Disrupt Berlin main stage. While our roster of speakers features an amazing line-up of startup founders and developers, it also includes an impressive group of venture capitalists. Want to learn more about fundraising or gain insight into what current trends VCs look for? Don’t miss speakers like fintech investor Jan Hammer of Index Ventures, Samantha Jérusalmy, a partner at Elaia Partners, Ciarán O’Leary, co-founder of BlueYard Capital and many more.
A world-famous startup competition, otherwise known as Startup Battlefield. We chose 15 of the most promising early-stage tech startups to go head-to-head live on the main stage. See who takes the $50,000 grand prize, the Disrupt Cup and joins the ranks of past Battlefield winners like Dropbox, Mint and Yammer.
A world of technology. You’ll find it in Startup Alley, where hundreds of companies showcase their tech and talent. TechCrunch organizes Startup Alley exhibitors into featured pavilions by categories (like Health & Biotech, Mobility & Transportation and Robotics) or countries. Some of the country pavilions you’ll find at Disrupt Berlin include The Czech Republic, Lithuania, Japan, Korea and Moldova — to name a few.

We haven’t even mentioned Off the Record sessions, CrunchMatch or the fireside chats. Like we said, this is just a taste. You can check out the full Disrupt Berlin agenda here.
Disrupt Berlin, which takes place December 4-5, 2017 at Arena Berlin, offers incredible value. But come midnight tonight, you’ll have to pay more to get it.  Buy your ticket and get the early-bird savings now — while you still can.


Lyft is the latest company to be added to the ever-growing list of those permitted to test their self-driving technology on California state public roads. The California Department of Motor Vehicles added Lyft to the list recently (via Axios), following Lyft’s foundation of a self-driving technology development center earlier this year, and its announcement that it would work on both its own autonomous tech and with automaker and other partners.
The fact that the ride hailing provider secured an autonomous vehicle testing permit from the state DMV could suggest it’s ready to start testing its own vehicles and technology on roads very soon. The company has previously discussed pilot projects with a number of autonomous technology partners to debut self-driving vehicles working on its platform, including with fellow DMV list member Drive.ai, but this would seem to suggest it’ll take a more active role in the vehicle technology itself in the near future.
Other permit holders include Lyft rival Uber, potential rival (and partner) Waymo, automakers including Mercedes-Benz, Tesla and Ford, just to name a few.


PacketZoom, a startup that helps app developers speed up and optimize app delivery on mobile devices, announced a $5M Series A today.
The round was led by Baseline Ventures with participation from First Round Capital, Tandem Capital and Arafura Ventures. Today’s investment brings the total raised to over $9M, according to Crunchbase.
The company combines a content delivery network (CDN) to speed up performance with an application performance management tool to identify performance issues in a single package. Instead of making content faster from a web delivery standpoint, it’s finding ways to speed up app performance on your mobile device. In fact, research has shown that users have very little patience when it comes to apps that are buggy or have performance issues.
Unlike a Web CDN, which cannot see what’s happening on end user devices, PacketZoom has insight into activity on the device and inside the cellular networks, company CEO Shlomi Gian explained. He says that they offer an SDK for free to developers, which gives developers analytics about the app along with network-related performance issue alerts. This is information that also helps PacketZoom understand the vagaries of the device/network connection and the kinds of problems that occur as the app interacts with the network.
The company has a second product, Mobile Expresslane from which it earns revenue. It promises to optimize the app delivery and downloads content 2-3 times faster, while reducing network errors. Developers pay-per-volume pricing for this product.
One way they do this, Gian says, is by eliminating a lot of the errors related to network timeouts. The TCP network protocol was designed to slow down traffic when it saw congestion on the network, a perfectly logical approach when it was created, but not so much in a mobile context. “On wireless, you always lose packets, so we let the server know it didn’t receive a packet and it will do it on the next round,” Gian explained.
He says this helps eliminate a lot of the network errors related to timeouts, which can happen frequently on mobile as you switch from WiFi to cellular or move between mobile networks.
The company started in 2013 and it took several years to build the product, which was released in 2016. They got their seed round in 2015 before securing the Series A they are announcing today.
In the 18 months since they launched the first product, the company has 68 paying customers including Sephora, Glu Mobile and East Side Games.
The funding round comes on the heels of Cloudflare buying Neumob, one of PacketZoom’s competitors earlier this month.

Featured Image: PeopleImages/Getty Images


The fallout from Uber’s disclosure yesterday of a massive data breach affecting 57 million users and drivers that it concealed for a year continues: The UK’s data protection watchdog has put out a strongly worded statement saying the company’s announcement “raises huge concerns around its data protection policies and ethics”.
It has also warned that deliberately concealing breaches from regulators and citizens “could attract higher fines”.
It’s not yet clear exactly how many UK Uber users have been directly affected by the October 2016 breach — although Uber disclosed yesterday that some international users are affected.
At the time of writing the company has not responded to requests for a more detailed breakdown of which markers are affected by the breach, including whether UK Uber users’ data was compromised.
In a blog post yesterday Uber said that “some personal information of 57 million Uber users around the world” had been in the files downloaded by hackers, including “names, email addresses and mobile phone numbers”.
“Our outside forensics experts have not seen any indication that trip location history, credit card numbers, bank account numbers, Social Security numbers or dates of birth were downloaded,” it added.
The UK regulator’s remarks are a clear warning shot for a company that has already been censured by a US federal agency on data security and privacy grounds — agreeing in August to 20 years of privacy audits by the FTC to settle a probe into privacy and security complaints that pre-date this new and larger data breach.
The comments are also significant because Uber is currently appealing a decision this September by London’s transport regulator to strip it of its license to operate in the UK capital. (Though it can, and is, continuing to operate in the city during the appeals process.)
Among Transport for London’s cited concerns for withdrawing licensing from Uber is its approach to explaining its use of internal software, Greyball — which Uber used in the US to try to monitor and block regulatory bodies from gaining full access to its app, in an attempt to sidestep regulators and law enforcement agencies. Earlier this year the DoJ was reported to be investigating Uber’s use of Greyball.
It is also facing a string of other federal probes relating to various aspects of its business operations.
Here’s the full statement on the Uber breach from ICO deputy commissioner James Dipple-Johnstone:

Uber’s announcement about a concealed data breach last October raises huge concerns around its data protection policies and ethics.
It’s always the company’s responsibility to identify when UK citizens have been affected as part of a data breach and take steps to reduce any harm to consumers. If UK citizens were affected then we should have been notified so that we could assess and verify the impact on people whose data was exposed.
We’ll be working with the NCSC plus other relevant authorities in the UK and overseas to determine the scale of the breach, how it has affected people in the UK and what steps need to be taken by the firm to ensure it fully complies with its data protection obligations.
Deliberately concealing breaches from regulators and citizens could attract higher fines for companies.

The UK’s National Cyber Security Centre, a branch of the GCHQ domestic intelligence agency, has also put out a statement about the Uber breach, in which it says: “Companies should always report any cyber attacks to the NCSC immediately. The more information a company shares in a timely manner, the better able we are to support them and prevent others falling victim.”
The agency also notes that it’s working closely with the UK’s National Crime Agency and the ICO to investigate “how this breach has affected people in the UK and advise on appropriate mitigation measures”.
“Based on current information, we have not seen evidence that financial details have been compromised,” the NCSC adds.

Featured Image: TechCrunch


Can Facebook be trusted to abide by even its own stated standards? In the case of Internet political advertising the social giant wants to be allowed to continue to self regulate — despite the scandal of Russian bought socially divisive ads which (we now know) were tainting democratic discussion during the 2016 US presidential election (and beyond).
‘Don’t regulate us, we can regulate ourselves — honest!‘ is shaping up to be CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s massively moonshot new year project for 2018.
But results from a new ProPublica investigation suggest the tech giant is failing at even simple self-policing — undermining any claims it can responsibly manage the bad and even out-and-out illegal outcomes that are being enabled via its platform, and bolstering the case for more formal regulation.
Case in point: A year ago Facebook said it would disable ethnic affinity ad targeting for housing, employment and credit-related ads, following a ProPublica investigation that had suggested the platform’s ad-targeting capabilities could be used for discriminatory advertising — particularly in housing and employment, where such practices are illegal.
This month ProPublica checked in again, to see how Facebook is doing — by purchasing dozens of rental housing ads and asking that Facebook’s ad platform exclude groups that are protected from discrimination under the US Federal Fair Housing Act — such as African Americans and Jews.
Its test ads promoted a fictional apartment for rent, targeted at people aged 18 to 65 who were living in New York, house hunting and likely to move — with ProPublica narrowing the audience by excluding certain “Behaviors”, listed in a section Facebook now calls “Multicultural Affinity”, including “Hispanic”, “African American” and “Asian American”.
However instead of the platform blocking the potentially discriminatory ad buys, ProPublica reports that all its ads were approved by Facebook “within minutes” — including an ad that sought to exclude potential renters “interested in Islam, Sunni Islam and Shia Islam”. It says that ad took the longest to approve of all its buys (22 minutes) — but that all the rest were approved within three minutes.
It also successfully bought ads that it judged Facebook’s system should at least flag for self-certification because they were seeking to exclude other members of protected categories. But the platform just accepted housing ads blocked from being shown to categories including ‘soccer moms’, people interested in American sign language, gay men and people interested in wheelchair ramps.
Yet, back in February, Facebook announced new “stronger” anti-discriminatory ad polices, saying it was deploying machine learning tech tools to help it identify ads in the categories of concern.
“We’ve updated our policies to make our existing prohibition against discrimination even stronger. We make it clear that advertisers may not discriminate against people based on personal attributes such as race, ethnicity, color, national origin, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, family status, disability, medical or genetic condition,” it wrote then.
Of the new tech tools, Facebook said: “This will allow us to more quickly provide notices and educational information to advertisers — and more quickly respond to violations of our policy.”
Explaining how the new system would work, Facebook said advertisers who attempt to show “an ad that we identify as offering a housing, employment or credit opportunity” and which “either includes or excludes our multicultural advertising segments — which consist of people interested in seeing content related to the African American, Asian American and US Hispanic communities” will find the platform disapproves the ad.
The new system would also require all advertisers that attempt to buy targeted advertising in the categories of concern to self-certify they are complying with Facebook’s anti-discrimination policies and with “applicable anti-discrimination laws”.
ProPublica says it never even encountered these self-certification screens, as well as never having any of its ad buys blocked.
“Under its own policies, Facebook should have flagged these ads, and prevented the posting of some of them. Its failure to do so revives questions about whether the company is in compliance with federal fair housing rules, as well as about its ability and commitment to police discriminatory advertising on the world’s largest social network,” it writes.
Responding to ProPublica’s findings, Facebook sent a statement attributed to Ami Vora, VP of product management, in which she concedes its system failed in this instance. “This was a failure in our enforcement and we’re disappointed that we fell short of our commitments. The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure,” said Vora.
She went on to claim Facebook’s anti-discrimination system had “successfully flagged millions of ads” in the credit, employment and housing categories — but also said Facebook will now begin requiring self-certification for ads in all categories that choose to exclude an audience segment.
“Our systems continue to improve but we can do better,” she added.
The latter phrase is now a very familiar refrain from Facebook where content review and moderation is concerned. Aside from socially divisive political disinformation, it has faced growing criticism this year for enabling the spread of content such as extremist propaganda and child exploitation, as well as for multiple incidents of its tools being used to broadcast suicides and murders.
The wider question for governments and regulators is at what point will Facebook’s attempts to ‘do better’ be deemed just not good enough?
Commenting on ProPublica’s findings in a statement, Rachel Goodman, an attorney with the ACLU‘s Racial Justice Program, said: “We’re very, very disappointed to see these significant failures in Facebook’s system for identifying and preventing discrimination in advertisements for rental housing. We and other advocates spent many hours helping Facebook move toward solving the egregious discrimination problem built into its ad targeting business — that advertisers could exclude people from seeing ads based on race, gender, and religion, including in ads for housing, credit, and employment. Facebook’s representations to us indicated that this problem had been substantially solved, but it now seems clear that was not the case.
“While we appreciate that Facebook continues to express a desire to get it right on this important civil rights issue, this story highlights the need for greater transparency and accountability. Had outside researchers been able to see and the system Facebook created to catch these ads, those researchers could have spotted this problem and ended the mechanism for discrimination sooner.”
This story was updated with additional comment from the ACLU


The third time could be the charm if you haven’t yet scored your free tickets to the Disrupt Berlin Hackathon. Today, we’ve released a third batch of tickets to the most exciting, grueling, 24-hour test of a developer’s chops. Tickets are available on a first-come-first-served basis, so get your tickets now before they’re gone for good.
The Hackathon takes place on December 2-3, the weekend preceding the full Disrupt Berlin conference. Picture it; hundreds of developers and engineers throughout Europe and beyond will descend on Berlin, form teams and spend 24 hours creating, coding and hacking their way to a completely new, cool or potentially life-changing product.
Competitors get one hour to form teams, and the Hackathon kicks off at 1:30 pm on Saturday. Teams have until 9:30 the following morning to complete their project. Check out the complete Hackathon schedule (all times are CET). Finally, each team gets a mere 60 seconds on the Disrupt stage to impress a panel of judges. No pressure!
Speaking of judges here’s who you’ll need to impress:
Sabela Garcia Cuesta, Program Manager, Next Media AcceleratorSabela Garcia Cuesta works at next media accelerator (NMA) in Hamburg providing early stage media startups a place to grow fast and scale in Europe entering first the German market. As program manager she represents NMA in Germany and abroad spreading the program’s benefits for European and Israeli startups, scouting potential applicants for the program and mingling with media executives and investors. She also guides the teams once they have come to Germany to help them reach their objectives.
Tina Egolf, CPO, Clue
Tina Egolf leads pirate ships (aka product teams). As Clue’s CPO she is currently defining the global product strategy and building the product, growth and monetisation teams for Clue, the #1 mobile app for female health worldwide. Before joining Clue, she took a detour into consulting with ThoughtWorks, worked for Podio as Senior Product Manager, founded and failed with her own startup and sold contemporary art. She also blogs about “future of work” and coordinates the Hamburg Geekettes, a network for women in the tech and startup scene.
Susanne Kaiser, CTO, just.social
As the CTO at Just Software, Susanne Kaiser is responsible for the software development of JUST SOCIAL – providing apps for collaboration and communication in organizations. She has a background in computer sciences and a technical and entrepreneurial expertise for more than 15 years. She is also a public speaker on international tech stages.
Diana Knodel, CEO & founder, App Camps
Diana Knodel is the founder and CEO of App Camps (appcamps.de), a non-profit that brings coding and digital skills into the classroom. With a background in computer science, psychology and educational research she worked in academia and the IT industry as a software engineer, product manager and team lead. In 2016 Diana was appointed as guest professor and lecturer at Technical University of Berlin, teaching future educators about coding and CS in the classroom. Diana is an ambassador for the Hamburg Geekettes and brings together aspiring and established female tech innovators. Edition F and D64 named her as one of the 25 leading women in Germany for the digital future.
Lisa Lang, CEO & founder, Electroculture
In now more than 10 years into her technology and media career, Lisa Lang has gained a strong reputation for being a game-changer in digital product and media innovation. She has founded ElektroCouture in 2014, a collaborative house for bespoke technologies. Lisa is a mentor to several European hardware Startups, and has been named one of the top 100 most influential people in wearable tech worldwide.
 
And speaking of the grand prize, the winning team gets $5,000 (and serious bragging rights). Everyone gets the chance to win gadgets, toys and other monetary prizes. Oh, you also get to chow down on midnight pizza and beer.
Here’s yet one more great reason to get hacking; every team that scores three or more points from the judges receives two free tickets to attend the full Disrupt Berlin conference on December 4-5.
Yup, ace your presentation and you get to experience all the techie goodness that Disrupt has to offer (for free): titans of tech speaking from the main stage, Startup Battlefield, Startup Alley, Off the Record sessions, serious networking and the best after-parties anywhere.
The time is what we like to call Now O’clock. Get your tickets today and bring your creativity, your mad skills and your best ideas to the Disrupt Berlin Hackathon.


Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.adSetOthAT('kventryid=1570060;kvcmsid=tcr:1570060;kvugc=0;kvsubj=981284:981903:982665:6375959:6379287:978332:982972:979329:6378547:6353688;kvent=4961451:3683918:4095852:4964277:3689651:4021982:4226689:4235124:4988421:5099241:5141973:5148076');
			window.htmlAdWH('93484976', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDiv5cbfa33be3');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




“The maturity of founders is just exponentially better and different from when we started in ‘07,” says Seedcamp co-founder and Managing Partner Reshma Sohoni. “[They are] so much more knowledgeable, so much more practiced in the art of starting up”.
I’m on a conference call with Sohoni, Seedcamp’s other Managing Partner Carlos Espinal, and three additional members of the Seecamp team. All are sounding buoyant, and perhaps with every reason to be so. The London-based VC firm recently sold its first two funds to Draper Esprit, and today is announcing the first close of a new £41 million fund, double the size of its last. This year the VC is also celebrating its 10 year anniversary.
Yes, a whole decade has passed since Seedcamp launched what was then the first pan-European accelerator, at times almost singlehandedly dragging the disparate European startup community into the same room. In those ten years, the pre-seed and seed investor has backed over 250 early-stage companies, most notably TransferWise, and has seen 22 exits in total. The Seedcamp model has also had to iterate considerably as the ecosystem has grown up around it.
“While what we were offering worked well with the ambitions of ten years ago, you have to evolve your offering to meet the ambitions of today,” says Sohoni.
No longer an accelerator, applications for pre-seed funding are accepted on a rolling basis. With this fourth fund, Seedcamp will be writing bigger cheques, too. It will invest £100,000 into startups at pre-seed stage and can anchor a round of up to £250,000 as it brings in other angel investors.
At seed stage, Seedcamp will now invest up to £400,000 in rounds of up to £2 million as part of a syndicate where there is already a lead investor. A significant pot of capital is also earmarked for follow-on rounds up to Series B, as the pan-European firm looks to have a bigger stake in the game..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Tinder is using AI to get you hooked up | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



“Everything we’ve built up has been around getting a company from that first round of funding to that very, very strong next round,” explains Seedcamp Investment Partner Tom Wilson. “By unlocking a slightly larger cheque at the very, very earliest stage, we think it will allow the companies to get to that next round in an even stronger position”.
The maturity of the wider investor landscape has also changed over the years, notes Espinal, not least in how investors seek out startups right across the continent. “When Seedcamp started 10 years ago we were bringing together the community for the first time across Europe. And over the years so much has changed,” he says. “We have these huge events now — Web Summit, Slush, TechCrunch Disrupt. That means we are now tapping into more mature networks of angels and investors in all different geographies.”
That is perhaps reflected in the list of Seedcamp’s LPs for ‘Fund IV’. The U.K. government-backed British Business Bank is the anchor LP, and is joined by the likes of MassMutual Ventures, Investec, Thomas Cook Money, Index Ventures, Atomico, Idinvest Partners, ADV, Draper Esprit, SpeedInvest, and Underscore Ventures. In total, the list comprises 60 corporates, VC firms, and ‘fund of funds’.

In addition, Seedcamp has seen first-hand how the infrastructure in Europe for startups has matured, including Europe’s understanding of what it takes to make a successful company. “That means we’re bringing these bits together more and more instead of having to create them ourselves. We see that even in geographies we’ve invested in. We were the first to invest in Portugal, for example, and now that’s a blossoming ecosystem. We’ve done that for Estonia. So much has changed and as a consequence we’ve evolved with it,” adds Espinal.
Of course, competition among investors has also increased exponentially, even if the number and quality of entrepreneurs has arguably kept up. I wonder out loud how Seedcamp positions itself now it is far from the only value-add European investor at the pre-seed and seed stage.
“I think one of the main benefits with Seedcamp is our network: the fact that we’ve invested in over 250 companies over 10 years,” says Wilson. “For the founders we work with, access and tapping into that network has been hugely, hugely valuable for them as they’re sharing experiences. We feel that’s an unfair advantage which any founder gets by receiving investment from Seedcamp”.

Crunchbase






				Seedcamp			


 
Founded
2007


Overview
Seedcamp is Europe's seed fund, identifying and investing early in world-class founders attacking large, global market and solving real problems using technology. Since launch a decade ago Seedcamp has invested in 250 startups including the likes of fintech unicorn TransferWise along with some of Europe's fastest growing companies Revolut, UiPath and wefox. 

Seedcamp fast-tracks a founder’s vision …


Location

London, England



Categories

Financial Services, 																													Finance, 																													Venture Capital 


Founders
Reshma Sohoni


Website

http://www.seedcamp.com 


Full profile for Seedcamp 









Sohoni goes even further, arguing that Seedcamp is a “startup economy” in its own right, in which portfolio companies can find their first users and customers amongst each other. “We are literally a functioning economy… with 250 and adding another 100 companies over the next 2-3 years,” she says. “Whether on the B2C side, they’re often the first 500 or 1,000 users, or on the B2B side, the first 10 or 20 or 50 customers, and they unlock an even greater economy of startups that are in our LPs’ portfolios. Getting that privileged access to this startup economy is unrivalled”.
Seedcamp isn’t standing still, however, and there are no obvious signs of complacency. As it continues to hunt Europe for the best early-stage tech entrepreneurs, it isn’t being shy of new places or ways to invest in them. This — in what is bound to grab headlines — includes getting permission from LPs to invest in crypto tokens.
“It’s clear the community is really keen on using tokens as a way of fundraising and we’re just getting ahead of the game,” says Espinal. “I think we are the only LP/GP fund that has explicit permission to invest in crypto and tokens and we want to use that as a mechanism to back the next generation of decentralised companies”.
That, I propose, sounds fraught with risk, given that we seem to be in somewhat of a crypto bubble, including a number of alleged scams, and it is far from clear what makes a successful Initial Coin Offering, either from an investment or company point of view. The Seedcamp General Partner bats away my scepticism and says it’s important to separate coin investments that are currently grabbing headlines with the investment structure itself.
“For us as investors, what we need to be mindful of is separating opportunities with structures that benefit companies. We’re going to be having a keen eye on things that match our investment criteria but we’re going to be very open to any structure that is cutting edge if it benefits the company and gives us a return,” he says.




0
SHARES






























		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'organic-thumbnails-a',
			container: 'taboola-organic-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Organic Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});
	




		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'thumbnails-e',
			container: 'taboola-sponsored-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Sponsored Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});


If the FCC’s refusal to acknowledge the vast public outcry against its plan to gut net neutrality isn’t enough of an outrage, its total disinterest in investigating how that same comment system may have been gamed by fake users posing as real Americans adds a bit more insult to injury.
Suspicions arose earlier this year that a person or an organization of some kind was manipulating the FCC feedback system, flooding it with canned anti-net neutrality comments. While form letters around activist causes like this are nothing new, many of those comments were linked to real names, addresses and zip codes of people who denied having ever left feedback on the FCC website. In an open letter on Tuesday, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman wrote that his office pursued an investigation of the incident, but that the FCC basically ignored all of its requests for cooperation.
In a Medium post, Schneiderman writes:

“Successfully investigating this sort of illegal conduct requires the participation of the agency whose system was attacked. So in June 2017, we contacted the FCC to request certain records related to its public comment system that were necessary to investigate which bad actor or actors were behind the misconduct. We made our request for logs and other records at least 9 times over 5 months: in June, July, August, September, October (three times), and November.
We reached out for assistance to multiple top FCC officials, including you, three successive acting FCC General Counsels, and the FCC’s Inspector General. We offered to keep the requested records confidential, as we had done when my office and the FCC shared information and documents as part of past investigative work.
Yet we have received no substantive response to our investigative requests. None.”

Likening the manipulation of real names and addresses to more traditional forms of identity theft, Schneiderman expresses concerns about how the fake comments could have warped the FCC’s assessment of public sentiment on net neutrality.
“In an era where foreign governments have indisputably tried to use the internet and social media to influence our elections, federal and state governments should be working together to ensure that malevolent actors cannot subvert our administrative agencies’ decision-making processes,” Schneiderman said.
Earlier this year, at least two journalists filed lawsuits against the FCC for its failure to comply with Freedom of Information Act requests on the same topic, one of which sought information about the FCC’s claims that a DDoS attack took its commenting system offline. While the fate of net neutrality may be something of a foregone conclusion at this point, the agency’s brazen lack of transparency around its commenting system shows just how little regard Ajit Pai’s FCC has for the concerns of the American people.

Featured Image: SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images


The story of AppLovin‘s acquisition has taken another turn.
We first reported that the mobile ad startup was in acquisition talks in August of last year, and the announcement came a month later: AppLovin would sell a majority stake Chinese private equity firm Orient Hontai Capital.
Today, however, CEO Adam Foroughi revealed that the deal is (sort of) off. Instead of an outright acquisition, the firm will provide AppLovin with $841 million in debt financing — that’s on top of the 9.98 percent stake that Orient Hontai already acquired in January, thanks to a $140 million equity investment.
“This debt financing allows us to maintain full control of our business while accessing additional capital to help finance our continued global growth,” Foroughi wrote. “Our goal remains enabling developers of all sizes to grow their businesses.”
Reuters reports that the U.S. government opposed the deal. Apparently this is part of a larger trend, with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States becoming more reluctant to approve Chinese deals since the inauguration of Donald Trump.

Featured Image: Applovin


Today’s Stories

FCC highlights plan to kill net neutrality
Android secretly sending location data
Bitcoin just passed $8,000
Toyota’s new robot can be controlled in VR

Credits
Written by: Brian HeaterHosted by: Brian HeaterFilmed by: Veanne CaoEdited by: John Murillo
Notes:

Tell your congressperson you support Net Neutrality!


The revelation that Uber concealed a major 2016 data breach affecting 57 million users and paid hackers to destroy the evidence is yet another PR nightmare from Uber’s darkest era, but it’s also a major problem when it comes to state laws around data breach disclosure practices. In light of Bloomberg’s report, the office of New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman confirmed to TechCrunch that it has opened an investigation into the incident.
The new investigation won’t be the first time that Uber has tangled with Schneiderman. Flaunting laws over the course of its aggressive pursuit of growth, Uber often ran into conflict with city and state legal authorities, and New York is no exception. The company reached a settlement with Schneiderman’s office in January 2016 over its abuse of private data in a rider-tracking system known as “God View” and its failure to disclose a previous data breach that took place in September 2014 in a timely manner.
As a result of the settlement, Uber was required to encrypt the geodata of its riders, employ a multi-factor authentication system to verify the identity of anyone accessing rider data and make other standard security enhancements to protect consumer privacy. Uber also agreed to pay a $20,000 fine for its failure to disclose the data breach. While that fine was hardly a bump in the road for such a massive tech company, the new security requirements imposed by the Attorney General offered a more robust reproach.
TechCrunch also reached out to the FTC about how it planned to handle news of the new Uber data breach, but the agency replied that it did not have a comment at this time. Earlier this year, Uber settled with the FTC around the “God view” tool and its failure to protect the private data of consumers in a previous data breach. Uber agreed to 20 years of privacy and security auditing as a result of the FTC settlement.
Given the New York Attorney General’s interest in the latest Uber scandal, it follows that Uber will likely be in the hot seat in its home state of California, where under Civil Code 1798.82 businesses are required to disclose data breaches affecting more than 500 state residents to the Attorney General “in the most expedient time possible and without unreasonable delay.” TechCrunch has reached out to the office of California Attorney General Xavier Becerra and we’ll update when we hear back.
Given how far Uber strayed beyond the legal protocols that protect consumer data — and the unsettling twist that it actually paid off its own attackers — it’s likely that we’ll hear much more from state and federal authorities as they investigate a repeat offender that just can’t seem to learn a lesson.


On a lonely stretch of road just off the highway in Torrance, Calif. employees at Divergent 3D are hard at work plotting a revolution in vehicle manufacturing.
Inside the nondescript office building across the street from a branch of the Los Angeles Housing Authority and California Highway Patrol, chief executive Kevin Czinger and his staff are laying the groundwork for the creation of a more environmentally sustainable, flexible and customizable means of making vehicles.
Through the application of software and additive manufacturing techniques, Divergent 3D says it has developed a process that can manufacture tens of thousands of vehicles customized to the needs of fleet operators at a dramatically lower cost and without the toxic emissions that make auto manufacturing one of the most polluting industries in the world, according to Czinger.
For the former college football star, roustabout, marine and Goldman Sachs investment banker, Divergent is a second chance for success in the world of automotive startups. His previous startup, Coda Automotive, sank under the weight of executive disputes and a strategic misalignment between Czinger and the partners and investors who had lined up to finance the electric vehicle manufacturer.
Financing that vision is a new clutch of primarily Chinese investors who have agreed to commit up to $107 million in financing through a new investment round of more than $65 million and follow-on commitments of an additional $40 million predicated on revenue growth, the company said in a statement.
Investors include previous backers Horizons Ventures and longtime partner Altran Technologies, along with new lead investor O Luxe Holdings (an investment conglomerate backed by the Hong Kong-based real estate investment magnate Li Ka-shing) and Shanghai Alliance Investment Limited — an investment arm of the Shanghai Municipal Government.
After leaving Coda in 2010, Czinger took some time off and began thinking about what to do next. Still convinced that innovations in vehicle manufacturing offered a chance to curb the growth of emissions that are the main culprits of climate change, Czinger began in 2011 to look not at the emissions coming from vehicles, but from the whole manufacturing process.
From that thinking came Divergent, which launched in 2014. The company’s integrated hardware and software-based manufacturing process uses additive metal manufacturing in the design, engineering and manufacturing of vehicle structures for both automotive and aerospace companies.
Altran, a provider of engineering and research and development services to some of the world’s largest industrial companies, was an early believer — and backer — of Divergent’s approach to manufacturing, and along with other early investors like Synapse Partners, joined Horizons Ventures (Li Ka-shing’s primary early-stage investment vehicle) in backing Czinger’s vision with an initial $23 million investment.
Since the round, Divergent has developed partnerships with manufacturers and equipment providers like PSA Group (which makes Peugeots and Citroens) and SLM Solutions, which develops 3D metal printing technology.
The youngest of five brothers, Czinger grew up with a passion for cars, and after a wildly successful career in investment banking and private equity, was drawn back to that childhood fascination thanks to another concern — global warming.
“The thing that’s really broken is the way you design and manufacture vehicles,” Czinger told me in an interview last year. “If you go through from mining to vehicle disposal… vehicle manufacturing and fuel manufacturing are much more destructive [to the environment] than tailpipe exhaust. You have to radically reduce the material and energy that goes into the manufacturing phases.”
That realization only came after trying to make a competitive electric vehicle company nearly a decade earlier — and seeing the process of making those vehicles in China for the Chinese market.
“If you have an electric car that weighs over 6,000 pounds and consumes a lot of coal-fired electricity, you are massively accelerating the destruction of the planet,” Czinger said. “We’re going to build 4-5 billion cars. Which means, we’re going to effectively quadruple the number of vehicles on the planet. Those are heavy and will require lots of energy if the cars themselves require fossil fuels or no fossil fuels.”
Given those numbers, it’s not just the fuel source that needs to change on vehicles, Czinger said, but the entire process for making cars needs to change, as well.
The timing seems to be right for Czinger’s vision of a more modular, lower carbon footprint manufacturing process, according to early Divergent investor Evangelos Simoudis, a managing director with Synapse Partners. 
“What will be very important will be to create new vehicle designs to deal with lighter vehicles to deal with extended range or to have a better fuel efficiency as a result,” Simoudis said. “I believe we will need to have lighter vehicles and I believe that manufacturing, automotive manufacturing will need to adapt to small batch manufacturing.”
While companies like Uber, Lyft and Waymo are buying and modifying existing models to build out their fleets of autonomous vehicles, Simoudis says that they would be better off building out purpose-built fleets at lower costs.
“We will come to a point where will we be able to utilize data to create a fleet of vehicles that is tailored to a specific function or a specific operating environment,” Simoudis tells me. “The vehicle operating as a taxi operating in NYC could be very different from the vehicle operating as a taxi in Singapore. And this is why it’s important to address small-batch manufacturing effectively and in an economically viable way.”
The revenue model that Czinger envisions would work something like this. Companies would contract with Divergent 3D to design a bespoke vehicle. The company then works on the engineering to produce a prototype within a year. Original equipment manufacturers (or a company like Altran) could set up and build the manufacturing facility and pay Divergent 3D a licensing fee for the vehicles.
“The big catalytic event will be 18 months out when people see the first validation prototype cars from real major companies,” Czinger told me.
And, the plan could usher in a revitalization of manufacturing in cities across the country. “You’re relocating jobs and the manufacturing and the jobs and the training that you’re relocating is back to the U.S.,” he said.


In Blade Runner 2049, one of the more interesting stylistic choices was how the film imagined futuristic augmented reality. While the Microsofts and Googles of our real dystopian world are currently approaching AR tech with headsets and smart glasses, Blade Runner 2049 relied entirely on external projection to augment its world and the people in it.
This vision of the future may still seem a tad concerning, but it’s good news for San Francisco-based AR startup Lightform.
Lightform isn’t a hologram startup, but by capturing structured light, their projector-mounted computer is able to easily scan the geometry of a space and place mesmerizing animations and stills onto objects and surfaces. The fun little expensive device plugs into the back of just about any projector and brings augmented reality to any surface it can shine on. The startup’s accompanying Lightform Creator desktop software subsequently allows users to easily edit how the projector interacts with the spaces it’s projecting on, letting them add AR effects or display media.

Lightform has raised $5 million in a funding round led by Lux Capital. Dolby Family Ventures, CrunchFund, Comet Labs, Presence Capital and Anorak Ventures also participated in the round. The startup has raised $7.8 million to date.
By first looks, the company’s product would seem to have every hallmark of the cool Kickstarter hardware project that you back only to have it arrive years later or not at all. Lightform has done something seemingly radical, however, in that they have already raised the necessary funding to manufacture the first 2,000 units.
“There’s been a lot of undelivered hype in the AR/VR space, so we want to ensure we can ship a product to our customers, and deliver on our promises,” said Lightform CEO Brett Jones. “Given the skepticism around AR vaporware, we want to make it clear that Lightform is real and being used for real applications. Funding the development with this new capital allows us to finalize our product before we start selling it, not the other way around.”

The company’s tech is already being used to help display the menu at my favorite hipster San Francisco cafe, Vive La Tarte, a place that sells “Smashed Avo Toast” for $14. It’s safe to say that the early market for Lightform’s tech is aesthetic-first, and the company’s founders indeed emphasized that “designers who design spaces” are likely to be their first customers, though they noted anyone with a working knowledge of Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator should be able to handle it as well.
Lightform hasn’t put a final price tag on the device, but its founders say the company is hoping to ship it at under $1,000. The team is currently “alpha-testing” with partners as it begins manufacturing and will be opening pre-orders next year.


As Apple reportedly ramps up work to ship an augmented reality headset in 2020, it has acquired a startup from Montreal, Canada that could help it get there. TechCrunch has learned that Apple has acquired Vrvana, maker of the Totem headset — which had rave reviews but never shipped. The deal was for around $30 million, two sources tell TechCrunch.
We contacted Apple, and the company declined to comment, but also did not deny the story. Vrvana did not reply to our request for comment. Sources close to the deal have confirmed the acquisition to us.
The deal is significant because while we have seen reports and rumors about Apple’s interest in AR hardware, the company has been very tight-lipped and generally is very secretive about completely new, future products. This acquisition is perhaps the clearest indicator yet of what the company is hoping to develop.
A number of the startup’s employees have joined Apple in California. The Vrvana site is currently still up, but it stopped updating social accounts and news in August of this year.
It’s not clear what of Vrvana’s existing products, product roadmap or current business — it worked with Valve, Tesla, Audi and others under NDA — will be making its way to Apple.
The only product that Vrvana shows off on its site is the unreleased Totem headset, an “extended reality” device utilizing key technologies from both AR and virtual reality to allow for both experiences on a single headset.
A screen grab from one of Vrvana’s promotional videos for the Totem.
The tethered device had a form factor similar to many of today’s VR headsets, but uniquely relied on several forward-facing pass-through cameras to replicate the outside world on its OLED displays inside the headset. The system of cameras enabled 6DoF tracking, a technology which allows the device to track its position in 3D space, while also using infrared cameras to track a user’s hands.
Vrvana’s camera-based AR approach differs from competitors like Microsoft, which is utilizing transparent, projection-based displays for its HoloLens headset. The Totem holds a number of advantages over these systems, most notably in that it is able to overlay fully opaque, true-color animations on top of the real world rather than the ghost-like projections of other headsets which critically cannot display the color black. This allows the headset to do what it calls “seamless blend” transitions between VR and AR environments.
A key disadvantage in these types of systems, aside from bulky aesthetics, is that there is often noticeable lag between the cameras capturing the outside world and how quickly it is displayed in-headset. Vrvana CEO Bertrand Nepveu detailed this problem in a talk this summer where he shared that the startup had working prototypes that brought this latency down to 3 milliseconds.
An animation showcasing how the Totem smoothly transitions between AR and VR modes.
There are consumer applications for this kind of “extended reality” technology — for example, in games and other entertainment — but one key focus for Vrvana was enterprise usage.
“Totem’s hand tracking and inside-out positional tracking empowers your workforce to manipulate virtual objects with their hands wherever they please,” the company said in promotional materials on the headset.
This is notable considering Apple’s focus — both on its own and in partnership with other IT providers like IBM, Cisco and SAP — to court different enterprise verticals. In August, CEO Tim Cook singled out enterprise as one key focus for its AR ambitions, and in its last earnings the company reported double-digit growth in the area. The company last broke out its enterprise sales back in 2015, when Cook described it as a $25 billion business.
But scaling remains one of the hardest things for startups — especially hardware startups — to do, and this is even more the case for startups working in emerging technologies that have yet to break into the mainstream.
Founded back in 2005, Vrvana had not disclosed much of its funding. A source tells TechCrunch the company raised less than $2 million, a modest figure in the world of hardware. Investors according to PitchBook included Real Ventures (whose partner Jean-Sebastian Cournoyer is also involved with Element.ai, an ambitious AI startup and incubator in Montreal), the Canadian Technology Accelerator, and angel Richard Adler, who is also active in other VR startups.
Up to now, Apple has been fairly critical of the state of VR and AR hardware in the market today, and it has downplayed its own hand in the game.
“Today I can tell you the technology itself doesn’t exist to do that in a quality way. The display technology required, as well as putting enough stuff around your face – there’s huge challenges with that,” Cook told The Independent in answer to a question about whether it was building a headset. “The field of view, the quality of the display itself, it’s not there yet…We don’t give a rat’s about being first, we want to be the best, and give people a great experience. But now anything you would see on the market any time soon would not be something any of us would be satisfied with. Nor do I think the vast majority of people would be satisfied.”
That’s not to say that Apple has not been enthusiastic about the augmented reality space. But to date, this interest has largely manifested itself through software — specifically the company’s iOS-based ARKit SDK — and the increasingly sophisticated camera arrays on the iPhone rather than through a dedicated device, although there have been plenty of Apple patents that also potentially point to one.
Apple also has made other acquisitions that underscore its interest in developing the technology that powers the hardware. In June, Apple acquired SMI, an eye-tracking firm that was working on solutions for VR and AR headsets. Other AR and VR-related acquisitions have included Flyby Media, metaio, Emotient, and Faceshift.


Instagram just rolled out a neat feature for its live product. Users can now request to join a live stream that they’re watching and, if accepted, can start broadcasting live as the host’s guest.
To request to join a live video a viewer can tap a request button in the comments section. Hosts see the request pop up in real time and can accept or deny, and also have access to a list of pending requests in case a bunch of different people are trying to join in.
Instagram had already let anyone streaming live invite a friend to join them, but by adding a request feature the possibilities for collaboration are greatly expanded.
Imagine a celebrity “taking calls” from fans. With the ability to see all pending requests, a host could pick a fan to join them live at random, or even selectively pick someone who just made an insightful comment in the chat.
Of course, there’s the worry that someone says something inappropriate when they join, but that’s not necessarily any riskier than allowing random people to comment on your posts. In an ideal world, Instagram would build in a feature like a 2- or 3-second delay that would let the host boot the guest if they said anything inappropriate, but for now it seems like hosts will just have to selectively screen their guests.
The feature also should be helpful among friends. It shifts the burden for collaboration from host to guest, meaning a lot more people should try to participate, which results in a happier host and better overall content.


Are you a celebrity who’s sexually harassed a bunch of people and are now in need of an apology to subdue an angry mob? Look no further than the Celebrity Perv Apology Generator.
The desktop app packages all the usual elements of several recent non-apologies that have come up when other fellow perverts’ dark pasts have come to light. In what might be described as a more honest approach, you’ll get the dodge, blame others or suggest how normal this is, as in just “locker room talk,” say you feel bad without admitting anything and a nice tie-up to help you escape the blame all in one easy-to-read paragraph.
Take this randomly generated apology, for example:
As someone who grew up in a different era, I feel tremendously guilty now that the things I did have been made public. I was intoxicated at the time, and of course now I realize my behavior was wrong. In conclusion, I will not change anything about my actions or behavior.
Another good one:
As the father of daughters, harassment is completely unacceptable — especially when people find out about it. It was simply boys locker room talk, and of course now I realize my behavior was wrong. In conclusion, I will wait 2-3 years before reappearing in film and TV and just sort of hope you all forget about this.
It seems we hear daily now of men in prominent positions who have been caught. In just the last week Al Franken, Charlie Rose and Glenn Thrush have joined a growing list of men who’ve been accused of committing terrible acts of sexual harassment.
While some men do seem to be sincerely sorrowfulness over their actions, many others turn time and again to these hollow and so-called apology tactics. Now you don’t even have to think up for yourself how to give one of these non-apologies. You’ll have one at the ready — when your time surely comes — to pretend like there’s nothing wrong with what you did to the people who looked up to you, trusted you and relied on you for connections, careers and livelihoods.

Featured Image: Roy Rochlin/Getty Images


We knew this was only a matter of time, but Google today confirmed that Google Lens as part of the Google Assistant is now rolling out to all Pixel phone owners. That’s something Google already announced at its hardware event, but until now, the timing was unclear.
If you don’t see it when you call up the Google Assistant, though, don’t worry. The company says that this feature is rolling out slowly but that it’s coming to all Pixel phones in the U.S., U.K., Australia, Canada, India and Singapore over the “coming weeks.” Once the feature is live, you will see the Google Lens logo in the bottom right corner of the Assistant screen.
Until now, the only way to use Lens was through Google Photos on the Pixel phone, but that meant you had to first take a picture, then go to Google Photos, open that picture and then tap the Lens icon.
That was a lot of work, especially because for the most part, Lens either tells you things you already know (yep, that’s the Sydney Opera House, who could’ve guessed…) or doesn’t have much of an answer to begin with. In its first incarnation in Google Photos, it was all a bit disappointing (though it did reasonably well with artwork).
The promise of Lens in the Assistant goes a bit further, though. Google says that it can save information from business cards (remember those?), follow URLs, call phone numbers and recognize addresses. It also can recognize landmarks (though chances are that if Lens recognizes a landmark, then so can you), and show you information about movies and books by just looking at the spine or a poster. It also can scan bar codes. We’ll see how well that all works once it hits our phones.


Uber faced a data breach in 2016 that affected some 57 million customers, including both riders and drivers, revealing their names, email address and phone numbers. That affected group included 50 million riders and 7 million drivers; around 600,000 driver license numbers for U.S. drivers were also included in the breach, according to a new report from Bloomberg.
Uber did not report the incident to regulators or to affected customers, but instead paid $100,000 to “hackers” to get rid of the data in order to keep the breach under wraps, according to the report. It says further that no security numbers or trip location information was taken in the attack, and that it doesn’t believe the info that was leaked was ever used, though it doesn’t specify who was responsible.
New Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi told Bloomberg via email that while he “will not make excuses” for the incident, he also believes that “none of this should have happened.” Khosrowshahi, who joined the ride-hailing company in August after a search for a replacement CEO following co-founder Travis Kalanick’s departure, also said that Uber did shut down the attack vector and increased its security measures following the attack, but that it failed in its duty to report.
Bloomberg says that Kalanick was aware of the hack as early as November 2016, just a month after it occurred. Uber Chief Security Officer Joe Sullivan, and a key senior deputy to the CSO, have also been removed from the company this week, specifically for their roles in keeping the cyberattack secret.
The report says the attack occurred because attackers managed to gain login credentials for an Uber Amazon Web Services account using a private GitHub site maintained by Uber engineers.
In a blog post addressing the breach, Khosrowshahi laid out plans for how the company will address the fallout of the incident, including bringing on a former NSA general counsel to provide guidance to Uber’s security teams, and notifying drivers whose license numbers were included in the breach. Uber will not only notify the drivers, but also offer them credit monitoring and identity theft protection services, though the post also says they haven’t seen “evidence of fraud or misuse tied to the incident.”
We’ve reached out to Uber for additional comment, and will update if we receive a response.

Featured Image: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images


Salesforce has named Bret Taylor, the former chief technology officer at Facebook and founder of Quip, as president and chief product officer.
Taylor first joined Salesforce in 2016, when Salesforce acquired word processing app Quip for $750 million. Now, Taylor is replacing Alex Dayon as the company’s CPO and Dayon is moving into the role of chief strategy officer.
As chief product officer, Taylor will be tasked with leading Salesforce’s product vision, design, development and launches.
“We are fortunate to have two such exceptional technology leaders in Alex and Bret to help lead Salesforce’s next wave of growth, innovation and customer success,” Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff said in a press release.
When Salesforce first announced its acquisition of Quip and its team, my colleague Ingrid Lunden suspected Salesforce could be planning to do something bigger. It’s not clear if this was part of the plan all along, but this is how it’s playing out.

Featured Image: Bloomberg / Contributor/Getty Images




John Lasseter, the chief creative officer of both Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, is the latest media executive to face allegations of inappropriate behavior.
In a memo to employees, Lasseter acknowledged “missteps” and said he will be taking a six-month sabbatical. He added that after “a number of difficult conversations,” he realized, “I have made some of you feel disrespected or uncomfortable.”
“That was never my intent,” Lasseter said. “Collectively, you mean the world to me, and I deeply apologize if I have let you down. I especially want to apologize to anyone who has ever been on the receiving end of an unwanted hug or any other gesture they felt crossed the line in any way, shape, or form. No matter how benign my intent, everyone has the right to set their own boundaries and have them respected.”
According to The Hollywood Reporter, former Pixar employees and others in the animation industry have said that Lasseter is well-known for hugging employees and “grabbing, kissing, making comments about physical attributes,” while Variety reports that others have described the environment at Pixar as “sexist” and “toxic” for women.
Lasseter directed Pixar’s first short films, as well as its initial features, starting with Toy Story. Following the studio’s acquisition in 2006, he was also put in charge of Disney’s animation division, leading to a string of critical and commercial hits, including Frozen.
“We are committed to maintaining an environment in which all employees are respected and empowered to do their best work,” a Disney spokesperson said in an emailed statement. “We appreciate John’s candor and sincere apology and fully support his sabbatical.”
Update: One of the stories recounted by The Hollywood Reporter involved Toy Story 4 writers Rashida Jones and Will McCormack, who supposedly left the project early because Lasseter made an unwanted advance. However, Jones and McCormack have now released a statement saying that it isn’t true: “We parted ways because of creative and, more importantly, philosophical differences.”
They go on to say:
There is so much talent at Pixar and we remain enormous fans of their films. But it is also a culture where women and people of color do not have an equal creative voice, as is demonstrated by their director demographics: out of the 20 films in the company’s history, only one was co-directed by a woman and only one was directed by a person of color. We encourage Pixar to be leaders in bolstering, hiring, and promoting more diverse and female storytellers and leaders. We hope we can encourage all those who have felt like their voices could not be heard in the past to feel empowered.

Featured Image: Jason LaVeris/FilmMagic/Getty Images


Six years after taking the helm as head of HP, Meg Whitman will step down from her role as CEO of Hewlett Packard Enterprise in February 2018. Whitman’s spot will be filled by the company’s current president, Antonio Neri.
Neri has been with HP since 1995, starting as a customer service engineer at a call center, ultimately climbing the ranks to executive vice president of HPE in 2015 and then to president in June of this year. 
Whitman joined the company in 2011, after serving as the head of eBay. During her tenure at HP, the executive oversaw a rocky time for the electronics giant, ultimately splitting the company in two: a personal computer and printing company headed up by EVP Dion Weisler, and HPE, an information technology company, where she retained her position as CEO.
Late last year, the company thinned out further by selling its OpenStack and Cloud Foundry assets to German company SUSE. Earlier this year, it spun off most of the rest of its remaining enterprise software business, the last lingering piece of a 2011 Autonomy acquisition, which was regarded as the latest in a long line of regrettable moves for the company.
Whitman’s impact on HP has largely been seen as a stabilizing force for a company that was moving in the wrong direction at a rapid clip. Her predecessor, Leo Apotheker, was only in the role for about a year — at the time, the company had a much more difficult time finding something nice to say about its ex-boss, stating, “We very much appreciate Leo’s efforts and his service to HP since his appointment last year. The board believes that the job of the HP CEO now requires additional attributes to successfully execute on the company’s strategy.”
Whitman had previously served as the president and CEO of eBay, growing the online auction site from 30 employees in 1998 to 15,000 by the end of her tenure.

“I’m incredibly proud of all we’ve accomplished since I joined HP in 2011. Today, Hewlett Packard moves forward as four industry-leading companies that are each well positioned to win in their respective markets,” Whitman said in a statement tied to this afternoon’s news. “Now is the right time for Antonio and a new generation of leaders to take the reins of HPE. I have tremendous confidence that they will continue to build a great company that will thrive well into the future.”
Back in July, Whitman was floated as a replacement for Uber CEO Travis Kalanick, ultimately batting away such rumors, stating, “We have a lot of work still to do at HPE and I am not going anywhere.” That’s still somewhat true here — Whitman will stay on as a member of HPE’s board of directors. She hasn’t announced any plans beyond that. 
The big news comes the same day HPE reported its quarterly earnings, in which the company performed slightly better than analyst expectations. 

Featured Image: Getty Images


While it didn’t dampen enthusiasm for everyone’s favorite dragon-oriented political drama, HBO certainly wasn’t happy when the major twists from the seventh season of its hottest show popped up online before they aired.
According to a newly released indictment, an Iranian man named Behzad Mesri faces charges for the hack. The document notes Mesri, who also goes by the alias “Skote Vahshat,” has worked for the Iranian military on hacks targeting Israel and that he belongs to an Iran-based hacking collective known as the Turk Black Hat. Mesri can’t be arrested now, but if he moved between countries that could become an option.
The indictment alleges that Mesri began his efforts to hack HBO in May 2017, feeling out the network for a way onto its networks. It goes on to describe how between May and July of this year, Mesri hacked into the accounts of multiple HBO employees, using that access to steal files, including episodes of “Barry,” “Ballers,” “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” “Room 104” and “The Deuce,” as well as scripts from Game of Thrones and confidential HBO financial documents.
The case is being pursued by the Southern District of New York’s Complex Frauds and Cybercrime Unit, with Assistant United States Attorneys Timothy T. Howard, Richard Cooper and Jonathan Cohen leading the prosecution.
“American ingenuity and creativity is to be cultivated and celebrated — not hacked, stolen, and held for ransom,” Acting Manhattan U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim said of the case.
“For hackers who test our resolve in protecting our intellectual property — even those hiding behind keyboards in countries far away —  eventually, winter will come.”

Featured Image: HBO


Do you like hats? If you do, maybe you already contributed to The Boring Company’s ability to dig a network of underground tunnels. Since Elon Musk started selling The Boring Co. hats, featuring the logo on the front (which he once claimed was designed by director J.J. Abrams), the company has apparently sold $300,000 worth of the merch.
That’s a lot of hats: At $20 per, that’s approximately 15,000 hats sold thus far since they went on sale in October. We knew they were doing well initially, with $80,000 in sales within the first 24 hours, but momentum seems to have continued for the relatively boring unexciting covering.


Initial Hat Offering going great w over $300k in hat sales already! Thanks for buying our super boring hat. You rock, figuratively & literally. All cash goes directly towards more boring.
— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 21, 2017



Musk calling the thing an “Initial Hat Offering” is just the icing on the cake, and a clear dig at the recent fad for using initial coin offerings (ICOs) as a financing instrument among startups.
Now imagine you sold Boring Co. battery chargers, Elon. Or I dunno what’s more appropriate — maybe a tunnel digger-shaped suppository?


As virtual reality takes its trip through the hype cycle of technology adoption, I keep returning to the early days of film as a corollary for the medium’s progress and a good benchmark for its evolution.
When they first arrived on the scene, movies must have had the same thrilling and disorienting visual jolt that anyone who experiences virtual reality now receives the moment they strap on a headset.
And just as film developed from the first flickering frames of a horse’s gallop from The Horse In Motion, created by Eadweard Muybridge in 1878, so too will virtual reality evolve to encompass more ambitious storytelling.
Dispatch, a gorgeous, harrowing 24-minute experiment in narrative storytelling created by the acclaimed studio Here Be Dragons, which uses virtual reality in novel ways, may be one of the most interesting steps on the path to creating VR’s own narrative language.
The short, which debuted at the Venice Film Festival earlier this year, is now available through the Oculus store on both the Rift and the Gear. The first three episodes are available now and the fourth and final installment will be released at a later date.

Divided into four six-minute segments, Dispatch tells the story of a particularly long, particularly terrible night for one police dispatcher in an anonymous American small town.
Instead of trying to cross the uncanny valley into naturalism within virtual reality, or falling back on the tropes of gaming animation, Dispatch’s writer and director Ed Robles of Here Be Dragons decided to create a more impressionistic approach.



01_dispatch_map01




02_dispatch_deskprop_sandtimer01




03_dispatch_deskprop_plant01




04_dispatch_deskprop_smartphone01




05_dispatch_deskprop_coffee01




06_dispatch_deskprop_deskclock01




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


The talent that Robles assembled, headed up by Martin Starr, is impressive.
As Ted, Starr imbues the police dispatcher at the center of the story with pathos and provides a point of pop cultural reference that grounds the viewer.
The supporting voice work from the rest of the cast, including Julianna Guill, Graham Shiels, Beth Grant, Samuel Stricklen and Kelly Jenrette, is also impressive.
A former commercial director and storyteller, writer and director Robles specializes in virtual reality production. Robles has helped shape more than a dozen VR projects, including “Clouds Over Sidra,” Kathryn Bigelow’s “The Protectors: Walk in the Ranger’s Shoes,” “Ghost in the Shell” and “Muse: Revolt.”
Dispatch is the latest project from Here Be Dragons, the venture-backed virtual reality studio founded by Chris Milk and producer Patrick Milling-Smith, which recently raised $10 million in venture funding.

Robles first pitched the project in late November 2016 and the experience began pre-production in late January, after Oculus signed on as a financing partner, the director told me. From beginning to end, the production took nine months, a timeline that Robles called “aggressive.”
The speed of the work was in part thanks to the fact that the production was made in Unity and was entirely animated. From the beginning, Robles said that he intended to rely on the audience to fill in the visual gaps as the Dispatch narrative progressed.
For Robles, to experience what a police dispatcher undergoes nightly, it was important to remove many of the visual cues and let the audience hear the experience.
“The minimalist reductive style comes down to a single thesis,” Robles said. “If you’re a dispatcher and you’re speaking to somebody you have no idea what they look like and the sound is filling in your world view.”
That idea was also paired with Robles’ thoughts that the more detailed a subject is, the more readily an audience member is identified as an “other.”
“The less you realize that person they become anybody,” Robles said.
Beyond Robles’ choices from the directors’ chair, the movement of actors like Starr and writers to take more of an interest in VR is also something that points to the industry’s progress.
“The really good experiences I’ve seen this year that aren’t flashy and aren’t trying to bank on the flash-bang and the typical VR trappings of ‘Whoah you’re really there!’… that refinement is starting to happen,” Robles said.
Ultimately (and perhaps unsurprisingly) the Here Be Dragons creative director takes heart in the progress the medium is making.
“VR is growing at a rate that is surpassing expectations but it’s been doing so quietly,” said Robles.


Alex Wilhelm
Contributor



Alex Wilhelm is the editor-in-chief of Crunchbase News and co-host of Equity, TechCrunch's venture capital-focused podcast.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Live from Disrupt SF: Equity talks Slack, Lyft and flying cars
Understanding Roku’s IPO and its growing platform revenues



Boku, a United States-based carrier billing company, listed on the London Stock Exchange’s Alternative Investment Market (AIM) recently, selling £45 million in stock. Only about one-third of those shares were from the company, however, with the rest sourced from extant shareholders.
The flotation is interesting, given where Boku is based, how much it had previously raised and from whom and how much it is worth post-IPO.
The IPO conversation here in the Bay Area spirals around unicorns and their ability (or not) to meet their last private valuations. But that situation doesn’t apply to every company that will go public.
Let’s peek into the Boku offering to see what happened and what we might learn from it.
The flotation
Boku sold 76.2 million shares of its equity in its debut at 59 pence apiece, bringing in just under £45 million. The income was split roughly by one-third for the company, and around two-thirds for what Interactive Investor called “existing shareholders.”
Shares of Boku closed the day at 73.50 pence, up 24.6 percent. That’s a very healthy first-day pop. The company’s £125 million IPO valuation (post-money) is now worth, including a currency conversion, $206 million, give or take.
And now you can see why this is all quite interesting. What sort of company goes public when it is worth just a few hundred million? Well, as it turns out, the AIM is a place built for smaller companies to float on — not everything has to be the Big Board.
Last year, I caught up with James Clark, who works for the London Stock Exchange, to better understand why smaller companies might want to list on the AIM. Here’s what he said:

AIM, London Stock Exchange’s market for smaller, high growth companies was created to provide the optimum conditions for small and mid cap growth companies—i.e. valuations in the tens to hundreds of millions of pounds.
Because of the scale of the US exchanges, companies at this sort of valuation can struggle to cut through the noise. When they can even get onto market, we have found they can struggle to attract top tier investors, may have to offer deep discounts on their issue price, and run the very real risk of becoming so-called “orphan stocks” lacking adequate coverage from analysts.

Smaller, high-growth companies going public? Let’s look at Boku’s book to figure out how it fits the mold.
Boku by the numbers
What initially snagged our attention in all of this was the combination of San Francisco headquarters, Silicon Valley money and London IPO.
What would bring a company into that particular milieu? As it turns out, a company that is nearing a decade of life that has raised quite a lot of capital and just found new wind.
Boku, founded in 2008, according to Crunchbase, has raised nearly $90 million across rounds stretching back to 2008. Benchmark, Index and Khosla hopped in back in 2009, a16z in 2010 and New Enterprise Associates led the company’s $35 million Series D in 2012. The firm tacked on $13.75 million in late 2016.
From its filings, here’s what you need to know about the firm’s recent growth. Foregoing its TPV (payment equivalent of GMV), here’s its revenue for the last three full years for context:

2014 full-year revenue: $14.2 million.
2015 full-year revenue: $15.2 million.
2016 full-year revenue: $14.4 million.

Here are the firm’s last two half-year results:

2016 H1 revenue: $8.4 million.
2017 H1 revenue: $10.2 million.

And, the “Underlying EBIDTA” results from the same two periods:

Underlying EBIDTA H1 2016: -$7.2 million.
Underlying EBIDTA H1 2017: -$2.8 million.

What does all that mean? That after a few years of uneven results, the firm has a solid growth number in place for the first half of 2017, along with improving profitability.
Not a bad time to go public, really.
(And if you are worried that the firm could return to the negative growth that it saw before, bear in mind that this is a smaller IPO. The stakes here are smaller than when a unicorn goes public while keeping its horn.)
Smaller IPOs: so what?
Before we got underway, we stated that Boku was interesting for a few reasons, including “where Boku is based, how much it has raised and from whom and how much it is worth post-IPO.”
We can deal with that mix head-on now, and in the process, answer our just-stated, final question.
What is interesting about Boku’s headquarters is that it’s a full ocean away from its trading market. Seeing an American tech company go public on a British exchange isn’t unheard of. But I can’t recall another venture-backed, U.S.-based company going public in a similar fashion (biotech aside).
Which brings us to Boku’s fundraising. Its list of backers is a power list of Silicon Valley’s venture class, and London’s AIM helped provide liquidity to some of America’s well-known money kids.
Finally, the firm’s value at just over $200 million represents a smallish exit for a company that has raised around $90 million. But, notably, it is an exit of sorts, and one that doesn’t involve crushing the firm into a purported open niche inside a corporate giant.
Crunchbase News reached out to the London Stock Exchange concerning the Boku IPO in particular, to which the group responded:
This IPO again highlights that LSE, particularly via our growth exchange AIM, has a track record of offering small and micro cap tech companies access to high quality capital at lower cost and reduced regulatory burden relative to US public markets. It also shows VC shareholders can diversify funding for portfolio companies and often achieve partial exit through a London IPO.
Fair enough, really, given what Boku pulled off.
We don’t hear about many small or mid-cap tech IPOs here in the States, at least not at the moment. Perhaps, however, we’ll see a few more like Boku?
In that vein, we also asked about the pacing of U.S.-based companies listing across the pond. To which the LSE responded with data that implies that we’re a bit behind on the trend:

Crucially, history shows that London blue chip institutional investors are comfortable with companies with much smaller annual revenue (sub $10 million in some cases) and market caps (most AIM IPOs have market caps in the $50 million-$300 million range) than typically seen in US IPOs.
We have had about 20 North American companies from various sectors list in London this year with market caps ranging from c.$10 million up to $3 billion and have seen a significant increase in interest in the tech sector that we now have a number of US tech deals in our IPO.

We’ll be on the lookout for the next Boku. More when it lists.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Physicists at MIT have developed and released a $100 muon detector that you can build at home, allowing you to sense deep space bombardment on something that looks like a TV remote. The CosmicWatch is basically a little box that can detect high-energy cosmic rays as they hit the Earth’s atmosphere and decay into muons.
Muons hit the Earth in a “light drizzle” say the device’s creator, Spencer Axani. He and the other members of the team, Katarzyna Frankiewicz and Paweł Przewłocki of the National Centre for Nuclear Research in Warsaw as well as Janet Conrad at MIT, created an entire DIY system for building and measuring muons as they pass through the detector. You can find the DIY plans here and even download the project code on Github. It uses an Arduino Nano and a silicon photomultiplier “to detect scintillation light emitted from charged particles as they pass through the scintillator.”
Axani has attached the device to weather balloons and even sent teams of students into the Boston subway to see how drastically the count changed. They plan on sending a detector up in a suborbital rocket.
“At sea level, you might see one count every two seconds at sea level, but on a plane at cruising altitude, that rate increases by about a factor of 50 — a dramatic change,” said Axani. “From the measured rate you can back-calculate what the actual altitude of the plane was.”
You can also use this device to map through walls, allowing you to make a map of another floor simply by seeing where the muons are more prevalent.
“That’s something I’d like to try out at some point, maybe to map out the office on the floor above me,” said Axani.


ADAY, a fresh entrant in the highly competitive world of direct-to-consumer fashion, has raised $2 million in new funding for its mission to simplify wardrobes with a line of durable, technical and chic womenswear.
The company is the latest in an ever-expanding movement of startups that offer direct-to-consumer products for the fashion-conscious consumer. Venture-backed lifestyle startups like Outdoor Voices, Glossier, Allbirds, Thinx, Function of Beauty, DSTLD and Bonobos are just some that have appeared in recent times, snapping at the heels of larger e-commerce sites.
The company’s latest financing includes investment from H&M CO:LAB, H&M’s venture capital arm; ADG, a consumer tech-focused fund; and SoGal Ventures. As part of the fundraising round, Nanna Andersen, who started H&M’s venture capital arm, will join ADAY’s board.
The company’s catalog features season-less, versatile clothing that can be worn several ways. Every ADAY piece of clothing features a host of novel material properties. The clothes are all sweat-wicking, quick-drying, UV- and chlorine-protected and wrinkle-free.
While those attributes are most commonly associated with workout or “athleisure” wear, ADAY is focused on a new category of women’s ready-to-wear apparel across your entire closet.
Its capsule wardrobe concept is rooted in their seven original staples, and is built upon with pieces from their Technically Tailored collection, focusing on pieces you can wear socially or professionally, and their recently launched Multiplicity collection, focusing on pieces that can be worn multiple ways.
“Our design thinking challenge was how can we create performance, but do it in a really invisible, minimalist way to create the most beautiful staples a woman could wear,” said ADAY co-founder Nina Faulhaber.
ADAY launched in 2015 with a stated vision of matching the latest in material technologies, garment design and manufacturing with an emphasis on sustainability.

ADAY invests heavily in R&D to innovate durable, technical fabrics, features social activists as their clothing models and skips prints and bright colors, because complex fabric dying is one of the greatest environmental waste generators in the fashion industry.
Previous seed investors include Cowboy Ventures, Venrex and Truestart, as well as lifestyle entrepreneurs like the founders of Lyst, The Kooples, Deliveroo, Amorelie and Zola. Other angel investors who backed the company hail from larger companies like Bare Escentuals, Net-A-Porter, Google, Goldman Sachs and Spotify. In all, ADAY has raised $3.1 million.
While roughly 90 percent of the company’s revenue comes from online sales, ADAY is using pop-up shops to bolster their direct-to-consumer strategy in physical outlets — and plans to open a permanent location in 2018, the company said.



ADAY_TechnicalTailored_www.thisisaday.com_3_lowres




ADAY_MultiplicityCollection_www.thisisaday.com_SnapItUpPants_GotItCoveredSuitJumpinJumpsuit_lowres




ADAY_TechnicalTailored_www.thisisaday.com_5_lowres




ADAY_MultiplicityCollection_www.thisisaday.com_SnapItUpPants_GotItCoveredSuit_lowres




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


While smart suitcase startup Raden is inarguably a hardware company, they’ve decided to test the social waters by diving headfirst into the world of stickers.
The company is launching a sticker store in their mobile app, which lets customers order physical stickers that once delivered can be can be affixed to their suitcases. The app lets you preview what the stickers will look like on your suitcase before you order them, and the startup sees it as a “way of bringing digital stickers to life outside of a screen, but by still retrieving them in the digital world.”
Raden came up with the idea after they saw customer buying 3rd party stickers and using them to decorate their suitcases. It was a chance to facilitate the behavior that people were already taking part in, as well as reinvigorate user engagement around a product that has a pretty long life time.
Most people buy a suitcase and forget about the company or brand for the next five years until they need a new one. Raden’s sticker shop is a chance for the startup to keep a relationship with customers long past the purchase date, especially if they keep releasing new stickers and make it something where customers want to continually order more.
Users get five free stickers each time they pair a new Raden suitcase to their app, but the startup will likely soon add an option letting you buy additional ones.
In the first week live over 1,000 current Raden customers ordered stickers, and the startup also saw a jump in app downloads from people who don’t yet own a Raden but wanted to play with the sticker store. This means stickers could end up leaving to a significant source of new customers if these downloaders decide to purchase a Raden after testing the app. This makes sense – people love stickers. Just ask the chat app Line, which makes hundreds of millions of dollars a year from selling them.
Raden’s sticker store is launching with 10 sticker packs from designers and brands like Mira Mikati, Baja East and Bono’s (RED). There’s also a monogram pack which lets you customize your suitcase with your own initials.


For someone who claims to be working for the American people, FCC Chairman Ajit Pai sure doesn’t seem to care what they have to say. In his announcement today that the Commission would vote whether to roll back net neutrality rules on December 14, he made no mention of the inconvenient and embarrassing fact that his proposal had attracted historic attention, garnering over 22 million comments — the majority of which opposed it.
The statement mentions benefiting or protecting consumers five times, so clearly the idea here is to help the users of internet services. Yet those very same consumers wrote the Chairman by the millions to say that they felt the existing rules protect them very well and that to remove them would be detrimental to their safety and privacy.
Just like when their safety and privacy were put at risk by the elimination of the Broadband Privacy Rule earlier this year. Strangely enough, the Chairman didn’t listen to the outcry then, either.
The response has been so strong, in fact, that the FCC was obliged to upgrade its filing system and then extend the comment period in order to accommodate the volume of comments.
Technically the FCC is not obliged to include public commentary in its considerations when proposing rules, something Pai and other officials have repeated constantly. In fact, just this morning, during a media call, a representative of the Commission said that comments which “did not introduce new facts to the record but just stated an opinion… do not have much bearing on decisions,” which is as much as saying the positions expressed by millions do not matter.
But this would have been an excellent opportunity to address the millions of fake comments, the allegations from Congress that the Commission has mismanaged its cybersecurity, the accusations of industry favoritism, and other concerns. And of course it would have been rewarding simply to hear the Chairman acknowledge the unprecedented level of public involvement on display.
Instead, the Chairman’s statement repeats the well-worn justifications for his proposal, which range from questionable to misleading to outright wrong. (I collected the arguments and counter-arguments here.)
Pai writes that the 2015 rules have “depressed investment in building and expanding broadband networks and deterred innovation.”
In fact the numbers are far from decisive on this and many industry experts and ISPs themselves have said that the net neutrality rules had nothing to do with changes in investment — instead, they follow years-long cycles of updating infrastructure, accommodating technology changes like 5G and so on.
And even if the numbers did show a slight change, that wouldn’t constitute proof that the rules aren’t working. As several representatives who actually worked on the 1996 Telecommunications Act (under the authority of which all this is playing out) wrote:
The proposal single-mindedly concentrates on one issue to the exclusion of all others: the raw dollars spent on network deployment. This narrow focus is clearly contrary to the public interest—if we had intended network investment to be the sole measure by which the FCC determines policy, we would have specifically written that into the law.
Pai also calls the rules “failed” but cites no metric by which they could be considered to be so. Perhaps he has picked up this habit from the president.
He calls the previous lack of Title II-based net neutrality rules a “longstanding consensus.” But it was neither. In fact, net neutrality rules have been in and out of the courts since 2002, with the FCC and various industries disagreeing fundamentally on what constitutes an “information service” versus a “telecommunications service,” the dichotomy at the heart of this conflict.
The “consensus” he speaks of is the telecommunications industry putting net neutrality in a legal holding pattern for more than a decade. Notably he does not mention the current and overwhelming consensus of the American people in support of the 2015 rules.
The statement says the new rules will “simply require Internet service providers to be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them.” Other Commissioners aren’t so keen on the idea of having ISPs operate on the honor system. When I interviewed Commissioner Clyburn earlier this year she assured the audience this was a bad and rather naive idea. Not to mention that ISPs already have to report this information, and that the FCC earlier this year declined to require further disclosures regarding how subscriber information is used.
It’s not surprising that Pai and his colleagues are making so little effort to sell the proposal. The vote on December 14 is a fait accompli, all but guaranteed by the current partisan makeup of the Commission: three Republicans in favor, two Democrats deeply opposed. Ironically, Pai has repeatedly criticized the 2015 order for having been established by a “party-line vote,” but fails to mention that his proposal will be enacted in exactly the same way. This little hypocrisy barely registers compared with the magnitude of its peers, but it’s worth mentioning.
Lastly, Chairman Pai crows about releasing the draft version of “Restoring Internet Freedom” to “the American people” three weeks before the vote, a change in process he has never tired of touting.
But it’s unclear what he expects “the American people” to do with it. Comment on it? Millions already did, and he has ignored them.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch


Overclock Labs wants to make it easier for developers to deploy and manage their applications across clouds. To do so, the company is building tools to automate distributed cloud infrastructure and, unsurprisingly, it is betting on containers — and specifically the Kubernetes container orchestration tools — to do this.
Today, Overclock Labs, which was founded two years ago, is coming out of stealth and announcing that it raised a $1.3 million seed round from a number of Silicon Valley angel investors and CrunchFund — the fund that shares a bit of its name and history with TechCrunch but is otherwise completely unaffiliated with the blog you are currently reading.
So far, the company used this previously undisclosed funding round to develop DISCO, which stands for Decentralized Infrastructure for Serverless Computing Operations. You may see the word “serverless” in there and think: so this is like an event-driven service like AWS Lambda or Azure Functions? And nobody would blame you for thinking that, but as Overclock Labs co-founders Greg Osuri (CEO) and Greg Gopman (COO) told me, in their view, the goal of “serverless” is about being fully automated (the company’s third co-founder is Adam Bozanich). Lambda does this at the real-time level for event-driven applications, but DISCO, which is going to be open source, aims to offer support for a wider range of applications.
The general idea here, Osuri told me, is to build a platform that allows you to work with any cloud service provider and allows you to easily move between clouds. The developer experience, he said, should be somewhat like using Heroku and the team is building both a graphical interface as well as a smart command-line tool for the service.
For now, the tool supports AWS, the Google Cloud Platform and bare-metal specialist Packet, but the team tells me that it expects to support other clouds in the near future. Because DISCO is open source, others can also easily build their own integrations.
To deploy applications with DISCO, developers can choose two routes: If they are building according to the 12-factor app philosophy, then DISCO can simply take the source code and deploy the app for them, or they can simply build their own containers and hand them over to DISCO for deployment. The system then handles the container registry and manages the containers for them.

The promise of DISCO is that it will make deploying applications as easy as using a service like Heroku, but for maybe a third of the cost. Osuri and Gopman previously built AngelHack together and have extensive experience in building open-source tools and working inside open-source ecosystems. It’s no surprise, then, that they plan to open source the DISCO tool and then build premium services on top of that.
What exactly these premium services will look like remains to be seen, but the first order of business for the company is now to release DISCO within the next few months and then build an ecosystem around it.
That’s easier said than done, especially in an age where it can feel like a new high-profile open-source project launches daily, but the founders are quite realistic about what the process will look like. They also admitted that they don’t expect to be the only players in this space — with Kubernetes, the basic building blocks for this automated infrastructure are available to anybody, after all (and with AWS re:Invent around the corner, I’m sure we’ll hear from other competitors in the next week or two). They do, however, think they are launching early enough to become one of the bigger players.

Featured Image: Thatree Thitivongvaroon/Getty Images


French startup Blade, the company behind Shadow, announced at a press conference that it is launching new offers, updating specifications and the ability to become a client and buy a subscription without any waiting list.
Shadow is a gaming PC in the cloud for a monthly fee. The company has been running thousands of computers with an Intel Xeon processor and an Nvidia GTX 1070 in a data center near Paris. You can then play demanding PC games on a crappy laptop, on a TV thanks to Shadow’s own little device (pictured above), on an Android phone and more.
Let’s start with the new specifications. “The next-generation Shadow is more powerful. When we started Shadow, we said obsolescence would be a thing of the past,” co-founder and CEO Emmanuel Freund said. “That’s what we want to prove today.”
Existing Shadow instances will be updated and have 8.2 teraflops of computing power compared to 6.5 teraflops with the previous configuration. The company says it is the equivalent of a $1,900 computer (€1,600).



Shadow - 6




Shadow - 4




Shadow - 2




Shadow - 1




Shadow - 3




Shadow




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


When David Legrand from Next INpact asked about the new GPU, Freund didn’t want to name the exact model. From what I’ve heard, it’ll be a mix of GeForce GTX 1080 and Quadro P5000 at first. Nvidia doesn’t recommend using consumer cards in servers because they’re not meant to be running 24/7. At the same time, professional cards are more expensive.
But it’s clear that Nvidia wants Shadow to switch to server-grade GPUs in the near future — Quadro P5000 and GeForce GTX 1080 should be more or less as powerful. When it comes to CPU, Shadow currently uses Intel Xeon 2620 processors.
While there are already thousands of clients, Shadow has been very slowly rolling out its service. There’s now a huge waiting list of people waiting for the next batch of instances. Starting on November 29, you’ll be able to subscribe instantly.
The company is opening two new data centers — one in France for the company’s home countries and neighbouring countries, and another data center in Santa Clara. Shadow has signed a partnership with Equinix, and 2CRSI is manufacturing custom servers for Shadow with four GPUs per server.
A Shadow account will cost $53 per month, or $41 per month with a three-month commitment, or $35 if you’re willing to pay for a year (€44.95/€34.95/€29.95). Those prices aren’t changing, but there are two major changes — you get a beefier computer and you don’t get Shadow’s own device by default.
Now, you can pay $140 or $9 per month (€119.95/€7.95) to receive Shadow’s bridge computer. It is a good way to use your Shadow on your TV for instance. But if you only plan on using Shadow with your existing computer with Shadow’s apps, you don’t have to pay for this option anymore.
In addition to that, Shadow is launching a second version of its app called Shadow Beyond. “On an Android phone or a TV, you rarely use a keyboard and a mouse to browse Windows,” Freund said. So the company is launching a sort of media center interface to access your content. You’ll be able to launch games, movies, photos, music and files.
Freund reiterated that the company wants to attract 100,000 customers by the end of 2018. In order to do this, Shadow has added adaptive streaming to its streaming clients. When you stream a video on YouTube, your browser automatically switches from 480p to 1080p if you have enough bandwidth, and sticks to 480p if you don’t have a fast connection.
Shadow is using a similar technique to downgrade image quality if you’re using a DSL connection with only 15Mb/s. “15 million homes [in France] can now use Shadow instead of 5 million homes,” Freund said.
Back in June, the company raised a Series A round of $57.1 million (€51 million). Many companies are working on computer instances in the cloud, such as Nvidia with GeForce Now and Amazon with WorkSpaces.
Shadow is focusing on gamers first as they’re demanding clients when it comes to latency and service quality. The company hopes that this narrow focus will help them improve the service and attract more clients in the future beyond gamers.


When the Amazon Echo Show first debuted, it included a YouTube feature, as is right and proper for a device with a screen capable of playing video and connecting to the internet. But Google quickly nixed the Echo Show YouTube player, since it was a non-standard presentation of the company’s stuff which did not comply with their terms of use.
Now, YouTube is back on Echo Show (via Voicebot), and it looks a heck of a lot different. It now much more closely resembles what you’d expect to find when browsing YouTube on the web or on a tablet, and the new look is clearly intended to bring the YouTube app on Echo Show in compliance with the requirements set forth for its use by Google and YouTube.
The original look was probably better suited to a device that’s designed to be used primarily via voice, but the new one feels more like the YouTube people know and love, so it’s a bit of a mixed bag. Still, it’s good that it’s back – the Echo Show was born for YouTube, as an idle time consumption device that likely often lives atop kitchen counters.
Amazon Echo Show now also offers Vimeo and Dailymotion video access, the company notes. A spokesperson provided the following statement:

We’re excited to offer customers the capability to watch even more video content from sources such as Vimeo, YouTube, and Dailymotion on Echo Show. More video sources will be added over time. 


Candid, the dental startup that aims to straighten your teeth for less than the cost of braces and Invisalign, recently raised a $15 million Series A round led by Greycroft Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners, e.ventures and some existing investors.
The plan is to use the funding to beef up Candid’s operations and grow its customer base, the company said in a press release.
“Candid Co.’s vision is to use technology to bring access to high quality orthodontic services to more people in the convenience and comfort of their own home,” Greycroft partner John Elton said in a press release. “Greycroft is excited to partner with the exceptional Candid Co. team to bring their positive mission to life.”
Candid, which 3D prints its FDA-approved aligners, is designed for people who need mild to moderate orthodontic work. It costs $1,900 upfront or $88 per month over two years, while braces can cost up to $7,000 and Invisalign can cost up to $8,000.
Candid had previously raised a $2 million seed round led by Arena Ventures. In total, Candid has raised $17 million in venture funding.


No doubt hoping to get a jump on that holiday traffic, Nintendo’s latest mobile opus, Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp has hit iOS and Android a day ahead of schedule. The latest installment of one of the game company’s most adorable franchises was first announced this time last month. 
In spite of some skepticism, early looks at the title were complimentary, noting that the title does appear to be more loyal to the console versions of the series than other recent mobile titles like Super Mario Run.
And, unlike Mario, the new game is free to play — it seems that, in spite of what appeared to be healthy download numbers, the company ultimately wasn’t happy with its return on investment with the side scroller. This time out, Nintendo will be making money on in-app purchases, via “leaf tickets” that let users unlock items.

That sort of incentive may push Nintendo to invest more in continued support of the game, offering up more experiences well after today’s launch. From a cursory look, however, it’s already one of the richest experiences Nintendo’s offered up on mobile so far, with camping-themed gameplay that closely mirrors its predecessor. There’s plenty of room for world building, too, if you pony up the aforementioned leaf tickets. 
A number of eager users have reported server errors attempting to download the title, but for what it’s worth, I was able to get the game right away, as evidenced by the above screenshot. So, I’ll be enjoying the great outdoors from the comfort of my iPhone. 


Gamevice is a bit like way to turn your iPhone or iPad into a Switch, at least in terms of adding physical controls to your gaming experience. But now the add-on can go beyond gaming, offering a way to easily control the DJI Spark with added precision and improved ergonomics when compared to just using a touchscreen device on its own.
This is actually great news for Spark owners, since the diminutive drone has a lot going for it, including relative affordability, and decent picture quality. But the one thing it’s lacking that the rest of the DJI lineup boasts is a solid physical controller experience included in the box – the Gamevice provides that, with a design that’s actually superior to the official DJI controller in a number of ways.
You plug your phone or tablet into the Gamevice directly via Lightning connector, and the physical controls reside on either side. There’s a full complement of buttons that allow you to control all aspects of the drone, including flight and photo and video capture.
In addition to Spark support, the Gamevice now works with Sphero’s SPRK+ programmable robot. If you’ve ever used a Sphero spherical bot, you might already be aware that physical controls easily trump the onscreen touch sensitive variety.
Gamevice starts at $59.99, and also still supports a range of games including Minecraft’s mobile iteration. If you’re a Spark fan, it’s definitely worth a look, since it basically addresses one of the only weaknesses of the DJI drone without requiring a significant financial investment.


Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai today made good on his long-standing pledge to tackle regulations established in the last administration designed to protect the distribution of internet content.
On Tuesday, Pai distributed to the other commissioners at the FCC a draft of his suggested rule changes under the auspices of the “Restoring Internet Freedom Order.”
The move sets up a December 14 vote at the FCC that could have broad ramifications for the entire internet. Under the rules established by the Obama administration, internet providers are required to provide open access to their networks for all digital content.
The new rules would give network providers like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon (which owns Oath, which owns TechCrunch), sweeping new power to throttle distribution of certain content… and conversely charge more for better access. In the new order, Pai argues that such providers don’t “transmit” data, and thus do not fall under the FCC’s authority — a view of the internet’s infrastructure that few experts agree with.
Pai has argued that the regulations imposed by the Obama administration “depressed investment in building and expanding broadband networks and deterred innovation.” The truth of this assertion has been roundly questioned by experts and lawmakers, who also have pointed out that it is an extremely narrow metric by which to measure the success of the existing rules.
The new rules would only require that internet providers “be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them and entrepreneurs and other small businesses can have the technical information they need to innovate.”
Additional regulatory oversight would be handed over to the Federal Trade Commission under Pai’s new rulemaking, which had authority over some of these matters before the 2015 order.
“Notably, my proposal will put the federal government’s most experienced privacy cop, the FTC, back on the beat to protect consumers’ online privacy,” Pai wrote. The FTC, however, is unable to write strong, preemptive net neutrality rules like those in the 2015 order.
No mention was made of the historic numbers of comments filed on the new order, the vast majority of which supported existing net neutrality rules.
Net neutrality prevents internet service providers from prioritizing data for businesses and other organizations that they favor or that pay more. The rules keep the internet open, free and unrestricted, preventing ISPs from becoming gatekeepers that can control and manipulate what people access on the internet.
“Internet rights are civil rights,” said Jay Stanley, American Civil Liberties Union senior policy analyst. “Gutting net neutrality will have a devastating effect on free speech online. Without it, gateway corporations like Comcast, Verizon, and AT&T will have too much power to mess with the free flow of information.”
Ronald Newman, ACLU director of strategic initiatives, said, “In a world without net neutrality, activists may lose an essential platform to organize and fight for change, and small organizations may never get a fair shot to grow and thrive. Congress must stop Chairman Pai’s plan in its tracks and ensure that net neutrality remains the law of the land.”
“Today the FCC has threatened to end the internet as we know it,” said Senator Michael Schatz (D-HI). “If adopted, the FCC’s plan will change the way every American gets information, watches movies, listens to music, conducts business, and talks to their families. By repealing basic net neutrality protections, the FCC is handing over full control of the internet to providers, leaving the American people with fewer choices and less access.”
Here’s the full statement below:

For almost twenty years, the Internet thrived under the light-touch regulatory approach established by President Clinton and a Republican Congress. This bipartisan framework led the private sector to invest $1.5 trillion building communications networks throughout the United States. And it gave us an Internet economy that became the envy of the world.
But in 2015, the prior FCC bowed to pressure from President Obama. On a party-line vote, it imposed heavy-handed, utility-style regulations upon the Internet. That decision was a mistake. It’s depressed investment in building and expanding broadband networks and deterred innovation.
Today, I have shared with my colleagues a draft order that would abandon this failed approach and return to the longstanding consensus that served consumers well for decades. Under my proposal, the federal government will stop micromanaging the Internet. Instead, the FCC would simply require Internet service providers to be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them and entrepreneurs and other small businesses can have the technical information they need to innovate.
Additionally, as a result of my proposal, the Federal Trade Commission will once again be able to police ISPs, protect consumers, and promote competition, just as it did before 2015. Notably, my proposal will put the federal government’s most experienced privacy cop, the FTC, back on the beat to protect consumers’ online privacy.
Speaking of transparency, when the prior FCC adopted President Obama’s heavy-handed Internet regulations, it refused to let the American people see that plan until weeks after the FCC’s vote. This time, it’ll be different. Specifically, I will publicly release my proposal to restore Internet freedom tomorrow—more than three weeks before the Commission’s December 14 vote.
Working with my colleagues, I look forward to returning to the light-touch, market-based framework that unleashed the digital revolution and benefited consumers here and around the world.

For a counterpoint to Pai’s puffery, check out this piece from John Oliver:

This story is still developing…. 

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin / TechCrunch


Google’s YouTube TV app has received a recent update that allows for picture-in-picture on Android phones running Nougat or Oreo.
Google first announced YouTube TV back in February, and rolled the service out in April, launching in five major U.S. cities. YouTube TV is meant to kill the cable box, offering popular cable channels like ABC, Fox, CBS, CW, NBC, Disney, ESPN and 40+ more for just $35/month. The channels are available live on up to six accounts with three devices streaming simultaneously.
Since launch, Google has expanded the service to now be available to 50 percent of U.S. households, with a dedicated app for smart TVs, gaming consoles and streaming devices.
Considering that picture-in-picture is one of the staple features of Android 8.0, it only makes sense that PIP would come to YouTube TV.
The feature is simple to use. If you press the home button while a program is playing, the player window will shrink and pop out to let you do other things. While using PIP, there are still controls for rewind, fast-forward, pausing and returning to full screen.
Folks who aren’t interested in PIP can disable the feature within the settings menu of the app.
[via Android Police]


A company called Confido raised a small ICO by selling special CFD designed to allow “safe and trustless cryptocurrency payments. According to ICODrops they raised their goal of about $400,000 and quickly disappeared, taking the cash with it. The site is currently a parked web server that points to nothing.
The apparent founder and former eBay employee, Joost van Doorn, posted a message to a Confido Reddit board claiming that “We are in a tight spot, as we are having legal trouble caused by a contract we signed. We signed the contract with assurance from our legal advisor that there was minimal risk and it would not be an issue. I can’t and won’t go into details, but he was wrong. It is a problem.”

According to the Reddit coordinator for the ICO, the move “is completely out of character” for Joost.
“There is potential that the removal of everything was due to the legal situation that they are facing, which is possible as I got the feeling that the situation was dire. I don’t agree with this course of action however, as it has left the entire community, and myself, in the dark,” he wrote.
The ICOs or token sales are red hot right now but I’ve spoken to a number of founders who are dealing with the same legal troubles – albeit in far less drastic ways – and who are eschewing the process entirely due to legal, logistical, and security issues. Given the amounts of cryptocurrency involved and the multiple moving parts including legal cover, white paper production, and monetary management, it’s a wonder more token sales don’t flame out like this one.
As of today there is no way to contact the founding team. The tokens rose to a price of about $1 before crashing back to a penny.
“These were very good scammers,” Eli Lewitt, co-founder of TokenLot, told Motherboard.
UPDATE – Kraft & Wurgaft write they they do not have any of the wayward coins:
“Our firm provides escrow services for TokenLot.com, a company which hosted the Confido ICO. The services we provide include maintaining funds received from ICO investors until the Tokens are distributed by the issuing company. Once we receive confirmation that the Tokens have been distributed, we release the funds received to TokenLot.com for distribution to the Company selling the Tokens. Thus, once the Token sale is complete, we no longer maintain a wallet or hold any funds related to the sale. We furthermore have no direct involvement with the issuing company, i.e. Confido, as our client is TokenLot.com.”


Google.org is donating $7.5 million to racial justice organizations Vera Institute for Justice, LatinoJustice, The Leadership Conference and R Street’s Justice for Work Coalition. This brings Google.org’s total amount of funding to racial justice organizations to $32 million since 2015.
Google.org’s racial justice portfolio arc has focused on what Justin Steele, principal at Google.org, calls the three Ps: policing, prosecution and prisons.
“We’re thinking about bringing more transparency to racial disparities about those three systems,” Steele told TechCrunch.
The largest grant in this batch went to Vera Institute for Justice, which received $4 million from Google.org. Vera is committed to securing equal justice, ending mass incarceration and strengthening families and communities. The grant money should help Vera build a data set to help researchers better measure the economic impact of incarceration rates in rural areas.
“Counter to the narrative that exists nationally around incarceration being an urban, big city program, incarceration in cities is declining but in rural communities it’s increasing,” Steele told me.
With LatinoJustice, Goolge.org donated $1 million to improve the quality of data around incarcerated Latinx people. Often times, Latinx people are misclassified or not classified at all, Steele said. There also are several states that don’t have categories for Latinx groups.
“We’re committed to expanding the mass incarceration conversation beyond white and black,” Steele said.
Google.org plans to continue supporting racial justice efforts for the foreseeable future, Steele said. The organization, which has completed its budget planning for 2018, has allocated resources to continue doing this work.
“As we pivot toward the solutions phase, we’re thinking about how we can support more work and spur some innovations and alternatives to incarceration in the field,” Steele said. “Now that we have a pretty robust portfolio, how can we use our convening power to promote conversations in the field. A lot of times, corporate philanthropy programs tend to be short-lived but this has good staying power mostly in part because Google employees are on board.”
For example, a group of 10 Google engineers and data scientists participated in a six-week, full-time volunteer program with the Center for Policing Equity. The volunteer immersion came following Google.org’s $5 million grant to the CPE in February.
You can learn more about Google.org’s racial justice efforts here.

Featured Image: Google.org


Monzo, one of a number of “challenger” banks in the U.K. aiming to re-invent the current account, is assembling quite an array of backers, many with a U.S. bent.
Its most recent round, which gave the startup a £280 million post-money valuation, saw the likes of Goodwater Capital, Stripe, and Michael Moritz invest, and before that Thrive Capital became a backer. Now TechCrunch has learned that we can add Instagram co-founder Kevin Systrom to the list of U.S. investors.
A recent regulatory filing lists Systrom as a Monzo shareholder via his ‘Kevin Systrom Revocable Trust’. Interestingly, the same filing confirms our earlier, albeit tentative, scoop that British singer-songwriter Tom Odell has also invested in the bank. I understand that both investments were part of Monzo’s Series C round in February.
“We’re very happy Kevin Systrom is supporting Monzo as an investor and we’re excited to have him on board,” said a Monzo spokesperson confirming that Systrom is a backer.
Meanwhile, that Monzo seems to be taking a significant portion of its capital from U.S. investors shouldn’t be too much of a surprise. The challenger bank’s CEO and co-founder Tom Blomfield has made no secret that he has mid-term ambitions to bring Monzo to the U.S., a market that he sees as at least if not more attractive than simply ‘passporting’ the bank to other European countries.
“America’s more attractive because there are 300-odd million people, and their banks are really, really bad, they speak the same language, and they broadly have the same service providers,” he told me on-stage at Startup Grind London last week.
In contrast, Blomfield says that Europe is more fragmented in language and consumer banking culture, and has many different providers in each country, something he reckon’s makes Monzo’s marketplace banking model a little more challenging.
Having been through Y Combinator with his previous startup GoCardless and after spending time working at a dating startup in the U.S., it is also clear the Monzo co-founder looks to U.S. consumer tech companies, such as Instagram and Facebook, for both product and marketing/growth inspiration, rather than the legacy banking industry. Having Systrom as an investor will no doubt help with that.

Featured Image: David M. Benett/Getty Images


In October, Sonos launched the Sonos One, raising the bar on what is already the gold standard in wireless whole-home audio. The big new feature? An integrated microphone that added support for Amazon’s Alexa.
However, there was one big caveat: While Alexa was integrated to control music services like Apple Music, Google Play Music, Soundcloud and others, it was missing a major player in the form of Spotify.
That’s not to say that Sonos users couldn’t listen to Spotify at all — once you started playing Spotify music from your iPhone or desktop, you could then skip tracks and change the volume with Alexa.
But part of the beauty of Alexa integration is the ability to simply ask for the music of your choice out of thin air.
Today, Sonos has rectified the situation, the Verge confirms. Now, Sonos One users can ask Alexa to play their custom playlists, Discover Weekly, or any other music mix that Spotify might offer.


Grindr is updating its popular queer dating app to be more inclusive of transgender and non-binary users. In an announcement timed to mark the end of Transgender Awareness Week, Grindr said changes will include new profile fields for gender identity and the use of gender-neutral language throughout its app and website.
While planning the updates, Grindr surveyed transgender users and consulted with the National Center for Transgender Equality, an advocacy group. The app currently claims three million daily active users, which it says makes it the most popular mobile queer social network.
Grindr’s new identity section lets users fill out their own gender identity or pick from a list that includes “trans man,” “woman,” “cis man,” “non-binary,” “non-conforming” and “queer.” Users can also select or write in what pronouns they prefer to use.



Grindr inclusivity update




Grindr inclusivity update




Grindr inclusivity update




Grindr inclusivity update




Grindr inclusivity update




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


The company also published a FAQ with information about gender identity and advice on how to interact respectfully with transgender and non-binary people.
In a statement, director of Grindr for Equality Jack Harrison-Quintana said the FAQ was written after the company got feedback from users who were tired of constantly fielding questions on the app.
“One thing we heard over and over again from trans people using Grindr was that they felt unwelcome as other users would often only want to ask them about what it means to be trans or approached without knowing how to speak respectfully about trans issues,” said Harrison-Quintana. “That’s why we created written resources linked from the gender identity fields in the profile to answer users’ questions and decrease that burden on trans people.”

Featured Image: Leon Neal/Getty Images


An investigation by Quartz has revealed that Android devices send cell tower location data to Google even if the user has disabled location services for apps in their device settings.
Quartz also said it observed location data being sent even if devices had been reset to factory default settings. Android devices with a cellular data or a wi-fi connection were seen to send the data to Google each time they came within range of a new cell tower — including devices with no SIM cards installed (these offloaded the location data via wi-fi, where available).
It says there is currently no way for Android users to prevent their location data from being sent to ad targeting giant Google — short of removing SIMs from their devices and disabling wi-fi (or else leaving the devices inside a faraday cage).
After raising its findings with Google, Quartz reports that a company spokesperson told it the cell tower location data harvesting has been going on for the past 11 months, and that cell tower addresses were included in information sent to the system it uses to manage push notifications and messages on Android devices.
The spokesperson further claimed the location data was never used or stored. And Google added that it intends to end the practice by the end of November, having had the location tracking issue flagged to it by Quartz.
“In January of this year, we began looking into using Cell ID codes as an additional signal to further improve the speed and performance of message delivery,” the Google spokesperson said. “However, we never incorporated Cell ID into our network sync system, so that data was immediately discarded, and we updated it to no longer request Cell ID.”
Whatever the reason Google was experimenting with harvesting Android users’ location info, it’s another troubling instance of the company slurping up sensitive user data without making people explicitly aware it’s doing so — let alone giving users controls to opt out of another major invasion of their privacy.
Back in October, for example, a number of Google Home Mini devices were shown to have malfunctioned and been persistently recording audio in the background in their owners’ homes, instead of only waking up when a specific trigger word was used.
After that snafu gained press attention, Google said it would remove the touch top function on the device — blaming that hardware for a malfunction that had triggered near continuous recording of users’ domestic goings on. As it’s now blaming engineering experimentation for Android covertly harvesting location data.
Location data is highly sensitive personal data from which much can be inferred about a person’s life and lifestyle, especially given the rule for mobile devices is to accompany the user wherever they go. And while cell tower location data isn’t necessarily hugely precise, triangulation of multiple cell towers can be used to calculate a more exact location.
So even if message speed and performance could be enhanced by the Android OS knowing a user’s cell tower location, Google should at least be asking people to opt in to that location-tracking enhancement and/or providing them with a way to opt out.
Google’s privacy policy does include the following section on “location information” (below) which states that users of “Google services” may have their location data collected, including cell tower data — though the linked examples Google uses refer to specific Google apps, like Google Maps, rather than to the Android OS itself; while the linked example on wi-fi access points and cell towers talks only in terms of location data being collected for users who have enabled Google’s Location Services (not persistently, because you are using the Android OS):
When you use Google services, we may collect and process information about your actual location. We use various technologies to determine location, including IP address, GPS, and other sensors that may, for example, provide Google with information on nearby devices, Wi-Fi access points and cell towers.
According to Quartz’s findings, the location tracking did not appear limited to particular Android phones or tablets. It says Google was apparently collecting cell tower data from all modern Android devices.
It further cites a source familiar with the matter specifying that the cell tower addresses were being sent to Google after an early 2017 change to the Firebase Cloud Messaging service that’s owned by Google and runs on Android phones by default.
While this is notable as an instance of Google itself, Android’s platform controller, apparently caught covertly tracking users’ location via the OS, this time last year a range of budget Android smartphones sold in the US were found to be secretly sending personal data to a third party company based in China — including information about users’ locations.
Albeit in that case the culprit was commercial firmware pre-installed on the devices, rather than the Android OS itself, as here.


Dabbl is giving users a straightforward reason to interact with ads — the ads earn them money in the form of gift cards.
For example, when I signed up for Dabbl this morning, I was presented with a menu of several different campaigns. The first one that I chose was from Oreo, where I answered a bunch of questions about how I feel and what I know about Oreo products. The whole thing took about 30 seconds, and I earned 30 cents towards a gift card from businesses like AMC and Bed Bath & Beyond.
There are other companies rewarding users for watching ads, whether that’s on their smartphone lockscreen or in games. But founder and CEO Susan O’Neal told me she avoids describing Dabbl’s approach as a “reward,” because “having your time and opinion tangibly valued feels more gratifying than a reward or another kind of gimmick.”
“Media companies are compensated for delivering impressions which are supposed to represent consumer attention, whereas our users are compensated for their attention,” O’Neal said via email.
In addition, she noted that users engage with Dabble campaigns “at a time that is convenient to them,” not when they’re trying to watch another video or play a game. And the campaigns are really about active engagement, for example asking users to watch a video and answer questions about what resonated with them.

“Because there isn’t any incentive to answer randomly, we’ve found that most people answer honestly,” O’Neal said — which in turn improves the connection to the brand. Dabbl says the average campaign sees 23 seconds of active attention from each consumer.
The campaigns that I saw promised to pay between 25 and 50 cents, but O’Neal said the company is still collecting data to improve the pricing model.
Formerly known as Adjoy, Dabbl launched a customizable version of the platform for partners back in August, and it’s currently powering ShopRite’s Downtime Dollars program. Today, it’s launching its a direct-to-consumer Dabbl app, and a self-service campaign manager for brands to promote themselves through the app.
Dabbl is currently available on Android and the web, with plans to launch on iOS in the future..

Featured Image: Mix3r/Shutterstock


If hardware is hard, rockets must be even harder. Natalya Bailey should know. She’s the co-founder and CEO of Accion Systems, a startup spun out of MIT’s Space Propulsion Laboratory that is developing a new type of propulsion for spacecraft. Today we’re announcing she’ll take the Disrupt Berlin stage along with Shasta Ventures founder and managing director Rob Coneybeer.
General admission tickets are available at early bird pricing, too, in case, you know, you want to attend the 2-day event and see this talk in person.
Bailey and her co-founder Louis Perna founded Accion System in 2014 in an attempt to commercialize the propulsion technology they developed at MIT. In 2015 they demonstrated it working for the first time in space. But this propulsion system isn’t a rocket engine the size of a Tesla semi. The system Accion is building is the size of a quarter and designed for micro-satellites.
The company is now several years old and raised a total of $12.5M with Coneybeer’s Shasta Ventures leading Accion System’s Series A in May 2016. We’re excited to have the pair. Together they represent an interesting cross-section of practical science meets startups and we’ll be sure to inquire on advice other entrepreneurs can use to build companies and products for outer space.
Throughout Disrupt Berlin attendees will hear about the latest technology and how it can make an impact on businesses. The show is jam-packed, and just like every Disrupt, the focus is on startups and the bleeding edge of technology. Fifteen startups are launching in Startup Battlefield and hundreds of young companies are exhibiting in Startup Alley. And though spots are limited, every Disrupt attendee can participate CrunchMatch, a free program that connects founders and investors based on their specific criteria, goals and interests.
General admission tickets are still available. We hope to see you at the show. This is the second Disrupt we’ve held in Berlin and we’re excited to be back. The area’s startup scene is bursting with new startups and investors. We couldn’t stay away any longer.


PayPal and Facebook are expanding their integrations today with the launch of an extension for Messenger that allows PayPal sellers to invoice buyers directly through private messaging. The feature is ideal for use with Facebook’s numerous Buy and Sell groups as well as Facebook Marketplace, in addition to being an easy way to send PayPal invoices in general.
The launch comes on the heels of last month’s debut of person-to-person PayPal payments in Messenger, and the arrival of PayPal’s first customer service Messenger bot for handling customer questions and requests for help.
The two companies had been working closely together prior to that, too, including through a partnership announced last year that allowed U.S. customers to shop online merchants via their Messenger bots, then transact in the app via PayPal.
This time, the focus is on shifting small business transactions and those between buyers and sellers into Messenger.

The new PayPal chat extension allows a seller to create and send their invoice without leaving the their conversation, so the buyer can act on it immediately. To use the extension, sellers open the extension tray in Messenger, select PayPal, then create a simple invoice by filling in details like item name, description, price and quantity. The invoice can also include a photo.
When the buyer receives the invoice, they just press “Pay with PayPal” to complete the transaction. If they’re signed into OneTouch, they can checkout without having to re-authenticate with their password.
Like other PayPal transactions, those taking place over Messenger are covered by PayPal Purchase Protection for Buyers – meaning, when the invoice is issued and paid, buyers are protected.
PayPal says the Messenger integration is only one of other partnerships it has planned to help make commerce easier wherever transactions are occurring, but doesn’t have any other deals it’s preparing to announce at this time.



SI_Entry Screen




SI_invoice creation




SI_Invoice posted to messenger




SI_invoice review




SI_post to messenger




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


The launch could have a notable impact on how business is done on Facebook. The social network said last fall that its Buy and Sell groups were visited by some 450 million people monthly; and Messenger today has 1.3 billion monthly users. Meanwhile, Facebook has recently been expanding its investment in Marketplace, having just added dedicated sections for cars and housing rentals, in an effort to better compete with Craigslist.
At the time, the company said search volume in Marketplace had grown 3X globally since the start of 2017, with 18 million listings being added in the U.S. alone in May. There was also 77 percent growth in unique conversations between buyers and sellers over the first half of this year, Facebook noted.
That leaves room for a product like PayPal’s to aid with transactions, given Facebook’s lack of interest in building out a payments business itself.


Hybrid smartwatches are a weird category right now. No one’s really mastered the perfect balance between the smart and dumb, though a handful of products have done a decent job, most notably Withings/Nokia’s Steel/Steel HR line. Fossil-owned wearables company Misfit has made some valiant efforts, as well, including the Phase — though the model was a bit of a mixed bag. 
The Command is really the direct successor to that line (though the Phase is still around at a reduced price, for what it’s worth). It’s got the same standard array of features, including basic fitness tracking, smartphone notifications and a “smart button” that can do things like trigger a picture or music playback on a connected phone. 
The device also attempts to correct some of its biggest issues. The new watch is thinner than its predecessor (though, it’s still kind of big) and features a new mode to attempt to get around the whole problem of offering up notifications without a display.

With the Phase, the company offered up a small circle on the bottom of the watch face that changed colors based on the kind of notification that was coming through. It was nice though, but in practice, it was a pain in the butt trying to remember all of those arbitrary associations. 
To address this, the Command features a subeye mini-face similar to what Nokia has on its watches. On the left side is a progress bar that uses the small hand to show how close you are toward achieving your daily step goal. On the right are a number of small icons associated with different functions. It’s still not perfect, but it seems to be a positive step away from the Phase’s inscrutability.

The design’s not bad either, though it’s a bit more brutalist than the Phase. It’s big and industrial and metallic, with a face that has a bit of a maritime aesthetic. It’s pretty good-looking for a hybrid smartwatch, though. The Command runs on the same standard watch battery as its predecessor, which should last up to a year. 
It’s up for pre-order starting today at $150. It will start shipping on the 28th. 


If every company is truly a software company, Capital One is out to the prove it. It was one of the early users of Critical Stack, a tool designed to help build security into the container orchestration process. In fact, it liked it so much it bought the company in 2016, and today it’s releasing Critical Stack in Beta.
This is a critical step toward becoming a commercial product, giving the bank its first entrée into software selling.
Capital One is embracing modern applications delivery methods like containerization, and it needed a tool specifically tuned to the security requirements of a financial services company. That’s what Critical Stack purports to give it, and they liked it so much, they thought others who required a similar level of security would too.
Critical Stack is compatible with Kubernetes, the popular container orchestration tool, but it’s been designed to provide a higher level of security than the base product, while giving large institutions like banks a packaged approach to container orchestration.
“One of the many strengths of Kubernetes is its rapid development cycle. You understand how challenging that can be to keep up with that moving target. We have an orchestration layer that has an abstraction away from that. Critical Stack is a stand-alone tool within the ecosystem of tools compatible with Kubernetes,” Liam Randall, Critical Stack president and co-founder told TechCrunch.
Critical Stack does everything you would expect a Kubernetes distribution to do including managing the container delivery and lifecycle management, but it’s specifically designed to allow operations to automate security and compliance policies around the containers, something banks and other highly regulated businesses need to do.
The company also concentrated on putting that kind of functionality in an interface that’s easy to use.
Photo: Critical Stack
While the company isn’t open sourcing this tool, they believe by selling it, they can get a similar set of benefits. “When you think about a lot of the great platforms, the best lessons learned come from working with other partners,” Randall said. While he and his team found a broad set of use cases internally, they felt that getting the product into the hands of others would only help enhance it — and it doesn’t hurt they could make some money doing it.

Featured Image: Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images


Toyota has a new, third-generation humanoid robot bears the charming name “T-HR3” and is designed to be a helpful and safe assistant to humans. It also features a so-called “master maneuvering systems,” which is essentially a VR-powered remote operating platform that a human can use to have the T-HR3 mirror its movements. Yes, kind of like a jaeger from kaiju movie Pacific Rim.
The T-HR3 is designed to work in an assistant capacity to humans across a range of different potential uses, including in-home care, at hospitals, on construction sites, in areas impacted by disaster and even, Toyota says, in the far reaches of outer space. The robot resembles a somewhat short person with long arms and smooth white panels covering its mechanical bits, with optical sensors but into the head.
An operator in the Master Maneuvering System has both arm and leg coverings that will convey their movements to the robot, allowing the operator to use a full range of motion to walk in place, manipulate arms and even grip with direct translation of their natural actions. The operator can also see from the robot’s perspective, thanks to a head-mounted display (an HTC Vive, in the video) they wear.



20171121_03_03_s




20171121_03_02_s




20171121_03_01




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


The synced up movement also has safeguards in place to ensure that the robot’s movements don’t interfere with the operator, so that you can’t accidentally (or intentionally, I guess) club yourself with the bot while sitting in the chair.
Remotely operated, dexterous humanoid robots have a lot of potential across basically all of human activity. And if we happen to need to defend against inter-dimensional kaiju invaders, at least now we have a path to make that happen.


Listen up, investors at Disrupt Berlin 2017. This one’s for you.
We’re thrilled to announce that you can now peruse the companies that will be on display in the Startup Alley at Disrupt Berlin 2017 on our handy Startup Alley Hub.
In addition to being a fantastic resource, the site is mobile-friendly, so you can easily view info on all of your favorite Alley companies right from your mobile device at the conference.
The hub is separated into days and categories, so you can see all the e-commerce companies that will be on display on day 1 of the conference, for example, making it simple to keep track of the companies you’re interested in talking to.
Each company on the hub has a profile that contains information about the company and their product or service, as well as any investors in the company thus far and how much money they’ve raised to date. The profile also contains contact information for the company’s founders and other representatives so you have all the information you need to get in touch right at your fingertips.
And if you’re so inclined, you can share interesting company profiles with your followers on social media sites with the share buttons on the left side of each company profile.
We wanted to make it easy for all the investors at Disrupt to learn more about the companies they’ll be connecting with in Startup Alley, and we think the Startup Alley hub is a pivotal resource for you as you plan your days at the show.
Speaking of the show, Disrupt Berlin 2017 takes place 4-5 December at Arena Berlin, and we can’t wait to see all of you VCs, entrepreneurs and tech enthusiasts at the show.
And if you somehow still haven’t purchased your Disrupt Berlin ticket, you can do so here and save big before Early Bird sales end this Wednesday.


When HPE acquired Nimble Storage in March for a cool billion dollars, it knew it was getting some nifty flash storage technology. But it also got Nimble’s InfoSight artificial intelligence capabilities that not only monitored the underlying storage arrays, but all of the adjacent datacenter technology.
Today, the company announced it has enhanced that technology to provide recommendations based on the body of data from Nimble’s 10,000 customers.
Bill Philbin, HPE SVP and GM for storage and big data solutions, says when companies are running applications, they need to know when things are going to go wrong before it happens. It’s not unlike sensors telling a factory owner that the machine is going to break soon. It allows you to take action proactively on your terms before something breaks down.
“As customers look how to build datacenters more efficiently, one of the biggest areas they struggle with is how to provide an optimal applications experience for consumers,” he said. The InfoSight tool can give them insight into how to optimize the hardware these applications are running on.
The company is not only looking at the individual customer’s datacenter to make recommendations. It’s using the entire Nimble customer base (and eventually extending that to other HPE storage products) to understand what issues trigger problems. When it sees a similar set of issues across multiple customers, the system learns the optimal way to fix that and can make the appropriate recommendation on how to repair or prevent a potential problem.
The way it works is the company collects millions of data points from the storage arrays, hypervisors and virtual machines under its purview, then encrypts and anonymizes the data and sends it to the InfoSight cloud analytics engine, where the data gets processed in real time and presented to customers. The customers log into the InfoSight portal to see how the system is doing at any given moment and get recommendations on how to keep the system stable and running smoothly.
In addition to the recommendation enhancements, they are also announcing InfoSight for 3Par, another storage solution that HP bought in 2010. This gives 3Par customers access to a similar solution for its line of storage products.
Philbin say adding this technology to 3Par is just a starting point. The company wants to eventually have InfoSight running across the entire storage product set to provide a similarly rich set of information and recommendations for each group of storage products in the HPE family.

Featured Image: Getty Images


Chinese internet giant Baidu is continuing its push into the automotive space after it led a RMB 1.3 billion ($195 million) Series B investment in Shouqi Limousine & Chauffeur, an offshoot of the state-owned Shouqi Group which was Beijing’s first licensed ride-hailing app.
NIO Capital, the investment arm of billion-dollar electric car startup NIO, and Silk Road Huachuang joined the round, which added RMB700 million (US$105 million) to an original RMB600 million (US$88 million) Series B announced in July.
Shouqi Limousine & Chauffeur does just as the name implies. It competes with ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing but differs in its approach — preferring to own its fleet of cars rather than encouraging drivers to own provide a vehicle themselves, the approach that Didi, Uber and others favor.
Right now, Shouqi claims a fleet of 60,000 cars which cover 53 cities and districts across China. The business has more than 20 million registered users, of which 2.4 million are active, it added. Those figures are dwarfed by Didi — which claims over 450 million users — but Shouqi said its limousine and chauffeur business has seen success thanks to the fact that it adheres to China’s ride-hailing regulations.
Now with this funding it plans to go after the electric vehicle market with help from Baidu — which operates the Apollo self-driving car platform — and NIO’s experience and platform. It also plans to go after  ring artificial intelligence into its service using Baidu’s DuerOS platform and NIO’s smarts.
Shouq was valued at $750 million when it closed the first portion of the round in July but there’s no update on that figure following the closure of this second installment.

Featured Image: Visual China Group


Taking another step toward shedding its reputation as the tech industry’s most notorious patent troll, Intellectual Ventures is launching the first company from its incubator.
The company’s ISF Incubator has licensed technology to LexSet —  a spinout launched by two bi-coastal serial entrepreneurs (and recovering architects) Leslie Karpas and Francis Bitonti — to roll out a suite of augmented reality tools for interior design and furniture assembly.
The multi-billion dollar home design industry is a massive global business. Everyone in the world, it seems, wants to keep up with the Joneses — or at least with the images they see on the Joneses’ Instagram and Pinterest accounts.
Just ask the investors in companies like Wayfair, which is now publicly traded with a market cap of nearly $5.8 billion; or Laurel and Wolf, which raised $20 million at a nearly $100 million valuation from none other than Benchmark Capital — one of Silicon Valley’s marquee investment firms.
In all venture investors have backed roughly 60 deals with some $1.4 billion in financing in the home decorating or interior design space, according to a search on Crunchbase. So it’s no surprise that a market that vast would be one of the first to attract the attention of entrepreneurs and the imagination of Intellectual Ventures’ newly minted ISF Incubator.
Seattle-based Intellectual Ventures has long been viewed with no small amount of contempt (and a large amount of fear) by Silicon Valley’s investment class, because of its reputation as a patent hole — a gaping maw in the Northwest corner of the U.S. where patents go to die and be reborn as fodder for litigation.
As an Economist profile put it in a 2015 article:
In its 10 year life, [Intellectual Ventures] has filed more than 3,000 patents for its own inventors’ work, and acquired 70,000 more, putting it ahead of the likes of Google, Toyota and Boeing. “What venture capital did for startups,” Myhrvold says, “we want to do for inventions.”
Critics would argue that Myhrvold’s high-minded talk is belied by his company’s predilection for litigation over innovation.
The same article sees Myhrvold responding to those Valley critics.
“Silicon Valley is a very aspirational place. Everyone’s aspiring for their Nirvana or heaven, which is to become super-fucking-rich and powerful very young. ‘Oh my God, I’ve got this god-given right to go out and take any idea I want and become a billionaire at age 30.’ Very few get that, but that doesn’t stop them idealising [sic] it. It’s kind of a secular religion, and what we do, rewarding people who originate ideas, is apostasy to them because it’s not their algorithm.”
And for the past several years the firm has been working hard on research to generate its own intellectual property and to use that trove of patents to build new companies rather than just suing existing ones.
LexSet is one of the early fruits of that labor.
Using a combination of machine learning and visualization tools culled from the IV portfolio along with the skills Karpas and Bitonti honed as architects and designers, LexSet has built a clutch of products for furniture makers and home design retailers to boost sales. The products let users scan their homes and furniture to come up with design and decoration suggestions.



LexSemble
LexSemble demo



LexSight
LexSight demo



LexTile
LexTile



 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Right now it’s a recommendation engine for interior design and an instruction manual for building out furniture — if the company’s recommendations were generated by an incredibly sophisticated algorithm that was refined by two of the foremost designers operating at the intersection of technology and the arts.
Karpas, previously invented manufacturing processes for Turner Award-winning artist Anish Kapoor and developed new ways to print medical grade silicone as the founder of the medical device company, Metamason. Bitonti, founder of Studio Bitonti (and an old New York contact of mine) has designed 3D printed objects, one of which is included in the collection of the Smithsonian.
Karpas first heard about the ISF Incubator from a mentor who’d encouraged him to do a bit of digging through the intellectual property on offer.
He started working with ISF in June with Azam Khan, director of new ventures at ISF Incubator, on potential products and received formal approval to develop technology with the spinout later that summer.
The company’s products consist of four distinct tools:  LexSight, which combines image recognition tools that identify objects in a room and recommends other decorations or spatial configurations to compliment the existing objects; LexGuide, which offers a catalogue of offerings from different retailers; LexTile which can create different tiling patterns for surfaces; and finally, LexSemble, which provides instructions for making furniture in augmented reality.
“A lot of these things are hard to describe,” says Bitonti. “The leverage the work we’ve done in generative tooling.”
For Khan, the pairing was nothing short of serendipitous. “Les had the spark to build the suite on top of the inventions in our portfolio,” he said. “And he had validation from Fancis on the technical side.”
Bitonti and Karpas may have built the toolkit, but it’s the capital and intellectual property from Intellectual Ventures’ incubator that’s been the engine driving the initial business, according to Khan.
It’s important to note, that the LexSet business is the first to spin out from Intellectual Ventures’ newly formed incubator. The company has actually spun out 15 companies already, according to Khan, which have raised $700 million in venture funding.
“What you’re sowing now is an ability to rapidly do that,” Khan said.

Another critical component of the incubator program is that it applies only to patents that have been developed inside of Intellectual Ventures, according to Khan. For him, it’s about, “creating a program to unlock other parts of our portfolio.”
The Invention Science Fund is tapping the parent portfolio of things that have been invented exclusively inside of Intellectual Ventures. Khan said that it’s a prime subset of the IV patent portfolio.
Khan didn’t disclose the amount of capital that the parent company committed to the fund, but said that the incubator would be seeding companies to the tune of “the low hundreds of thousands of dollars.”
The central thesis, said Khan, is to give the spinouts control of the intellectual property upon spinout, and not charge a licensing fee for future applications of the technology.
In the case of LexSet, those goals are much larger than simply providing tips and tricks for design thinking in a built environment, according to Karpas.
“What Francis and I are doing is to give anybody, anywhere an ability to create anything with the tools that they have around them,” Karpas said.

Featured Image: Tom Sibley/Getty Images


Uber and Lyft have made it easier to get around town, but the service isn’t designed for young people. Unaccompanied passengers under the age of 18 are forbidden from ordering cars.
So how are children supposed to go from one activity to the next when their parents are busy? Well, there’s carpools or nannies, but a ridesharing startup called HopSkipDrive is combining these concepts by hiring drivers that double as caregivers.
It’s been operating in LA for the past three years and also operates in Orange County and the San Francisco Bay Area. Now the business is announcing it’s $7.4 million in additional funding to fuel its goals. This is on top of the $14.1 million previously raised.
The latest financing comes from Student Transportation Inc., which will also be partnering with HopSkipDrive for school bus alternatives. The round also includes participation from existing investors Upfront Ventures and FirstMark Capital.
Greg Bettinelli, a partner at Upfront Ventures and board member at HopSkipDrive said that “by teaming up with school systems they’re not only unlocking massive growth opportunity for the business, they also have potential to help tens of thousands of parents.”
HopSkipDrive will also be working with the Los Angeles Office of Education to ensure that foster children are able to get rides to school.
Regular users can order rides for just one passenger. Or HopSkipDrive has also been growing its carpooling business, which offers discounted fares.
CEO Joanna McFarland said that she’s especially proud of the screening process of its drivers. “We do far more than most families do to vet a nanny or a babysitter,” she said. “We really set ourselves apart with our dedication to safety.”
She touted a 15-point certification process which she believes is the “strictest in the industry.” Drivers are not only subject to background checks but are also required to have five years of childcare experience. The drivers are 99% female and above the age of 23.
But HopSkipDrive isn’t the only business to see opportunity in the child ridesharing business. Competitor Zūm recently raised money from Sequoia. And then there’s Shuddle, which shut down after running into financial difficulties.
We got a video tour of the startup last year.


Uber has been slapped with an $8.9 million fine in Colorado after state criminal investigators found it had allowed 57 individuals with past criminal or motor vehicle offenses to drive and pick up passengers on its platform over the past year and a half.
The news was reported yesterday by the Denver Post, which notes that Uber has 10 days to pay half the fine or request a hearing to contest it.
The penalty, issued by the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (PUC), breaks down to $2,500 per day for each day a disqualified driver was found driving for Uber. The regulator also investigated Uber ride-hailing rival Lyft but found no problems, according to the newspaper.
PUC transport enforcement staff launched an investigation earlier this year after a local police force referred details of an Uber driver accused of assaulting a passenger.
The regulator then cross-checked driver records produced by Uber with information it was able to obtain — via the Colorado Crime Information Center and court databases — and its staff found Uber had allowed individuals to drive who had previous felony convictions, major moving violations (DUI, DWI, reckless driving, driving under restraint), and “numerous instances” of individuals driving with suspended, revoked or cancelled driver’s licenses.
“We have determined that Uber had background check information that should have disqualified these drivers under the law, but they were allowed to drive anyway,” said PUC director Doug Dean in a statement. “These actions put the safety of passengers in extreme jeopardy.”
Colorado authorized ride-hailing services in June 2014, via a senate bill, with the PUC handed the task of creating rules to regulate apps like Uber and Lyft. The rules, which came into effect in 2016, require a ride-hailing company to carry out either fingerprint checks on drivers or run their own background check. It’s those latter checks which appear to be failing here, in Uber’s case.
“PUC staff was able to find felony convictions that the company’s background checks failed to find, demonstrating that the company’s background checks are inadequate,” noted Dean. “In other cases, we could not confirm criminal background checks were even conducted by Uber.”
At the time of writing Uber had not responded to a question about how its background checking processes had failed here. But in a statement given to the Denver Post a company spokeswoman claimed the issue boiled down to a “process error”:
We recently discovered a process error that was inconsistent with Colorado’s ridesharing regulations and proactively notified the [PUC]. This error affected a small number of drivers and we immediately took corrective action. Per Uber safety policies and Colorado state regulations, drivers with access to the Uber app must undergo a nationally accredited third-party background screening. We will continue to work closely with the CPUC to enable access to safe, reliable transportation options for all Coloradans.
However, according to the Post’s report, the PUC’s Dean disputed Uber’s version of events — telling the newspaper the regulator had to threaten Uber with daily civil penalties in order to get the company to provide the driver records it had requested.
He further claimed some penalized drivers remained on Uber’s system. “This is not a data processing error. This is a public safety issue,” he added.
Driver background checks continue to be a major problem for ride-hailing companies — highlighting the fault lines of business models that rely on self-employed contractors to do the lion’s share of the service delivery.
And which — at times — also appear to have been geared towards prioritizing business growth and a race for market dominance over and above passenger safety, which would very clearly be better served by more thorough driver screening processes.
In Maryland, for example, between December 2015 and April 2017, state regulators removed some 4,000 ride-hailing drivers who had passed background checks conducted by Uber and Lyft after finding they failed to meet state standards. (The vast majority, ~97%, were Uber drivers.)
While in Massachusetts, between 2016 and April 2017, the state removed 8,200 ride-hailing drivers who had passed Uber and Lyft company checks — including 51 registered sex offenders.
Yet the two companies have fought against efforts by regulators to require more stringent, fingerprint-based checks for drivers on ride-hailing platforms.
In Austin, Texas, Uber and Lyft temporarily pulled out of the city in 2016 after it brought in mandatory fingerprint-based background checks for drivers. Statewide regulations were then subsequently brought in doing away with mandatory fingerprint checks and both companies resumed services in the city.
The pair have claimed fingerprint checks can contain gaps. However background checks based on names alone risk not catching aliases that individuals can use to try to conceal criminal pasts.
And checks by private companies are demonstrably failing in thousands of instances — bringing them unwanted attention from regulators in multiple markets.
In London, for example, Uber had its license to operate removed in September — with the local transport regulator citing concerns about its background checking processes. Transport for London had also received complaints from the city’s police department that Uber systematically underreported serious allegations of assaults by Uber drivers.
“Uber can fix this tomorrow. The law allows them to have fingerprint background checks. We had found a number of aka’s and aliases that these drivers were using. That’s the problem with name-based background checks,” the PUC’s Dean told the Denver Post. “We’re very concerned and we hope the company will take steps to correct this.”
Uber is also now facing a class action lawsuit in the US — alleging that thousands of female passengers have endured unlawful conduct by their Uber drivers and that the company has taken shortcuts in driver screening processes.
Meanwhile Uber’s internal company culture came under an uncomfortable spotlight earlier this year when a former engineer blogged about her experiences of sexism and sexual harassment during her time working for the company.
Susan Fowler’s blog post eviscerating Uber’s toxic culture led to an internal investigation into sexual harassment, multiple firings and, indirectly, to the departure of co-founder Travis Kalanick himself.
Uber is also being sued for privacy violations by a Texas resident who alleged she had been raped by her Uber driver in India — and subsequently learned the company’s president of business in Asia Pacific had accessed and was carrying around her medical records.

Featured Image: MikeDotta/Shutterstock


Disrupt Berlin, Europe’s best technology conference and startup competition, kicks off in less than two weeks. And because we want every procrastinator and every last-minute decision-maker to get the best possible price, we extended our deadline for early-bird ticket pricing to the breaking point. Alas, that opportunity ends in just 48 hours.
At the stroke of midnight (local Berlin time) on November 22, the price of a single Disrupt Berlin ticket jumps 30 percent, from €833 to €1190 (pricing includes VAT). Why not buy your tickets right now and save yourself some serious dough?
The last time Berlin hosted a TechCrunch Disrupt was back in 2013. Since then, the city’s startup scene has grown only hotter; if tech-startup blood courses through your veins, this is one event you don’t want to miss.
Do you love hardware? Even if you’re just curious about the issues on the forefront of that arena, we’ve got a great slate of speakers who live and breathe hardware. Henri Seydoux, founder of Parrot, will grace the main stage to discuss the use of commercial drones — think firefighters and farmers. Tom Carter, CTO and co-founder of Ultrahaptics, will give a special presentation on ultrasound-emitter technology that lets people touch and feel three-dimensional shapes that aren’t there.
But wait, there’s more. Ulrich Spiesshofer, CEO of ABB, will discuss robotics and Elvie’s CEO, Tania Boler, will talk about how advances in sensor technology and connected devices fit into her vision of a global tech brand focused on women’s health. That’s a lot of hardware love, but our main stage also will feature conversations on a range of bleeding-edge technology — like cryptocurrency, AI and autonomous cars — with some of the industry’s hottest innovators.
Looking for even more reasons to buy that ticket? Remember the classic events that make every Disrupt an outstanding experience. The Startup Battlefield promises to be a huge draw as 15 early-stage startups are primed, poised and ready to bring it to the Disrupt main stage. Which one will claim the title, hoist the Disrupt Cup and pocket the $50,000 prize?
Don’t miss exploring Startup Alley, the site of hundreds of the most promising early-stage companies from around the world. Combine walking the Alley with our curated CrunchMatch service, and it’s easier than ever for investors to add the perfect startup to their portfolio.
We’re still not finished; there’s the Hackathon, Off the Record sessions, after parties and plenty of time for networking. It’s a wonder we can pack it all into one conference.
Disrupt Berlin takes place December 4-5, 2017 at Arena Berlin, Eichenstraße 412435. You have 48 hours left to get the best possible price. Buy your tickets today.


Bitcoin cruised past $8,000 for the first time this week, but it hasn’t been smooth sailing for all after Tether — a company that helps exchanges convert fiat currency to token — said today that a hacker snatched nearly $31 million.
Tether operates USDT, a cryptocurrency asset that it backs via the U.S. dollar. The company said that $30,950,010-worth of USDT was taken from its core treasury wallet “through malicious action by an external attacker.”
In response Tether said it has flagged the tokens — meaning that it will track them and prevent the holder from exchanging them through its service — and that it is working to recover them.
For partners, the back-end wallet service has been suspended. Tether said it will investigate the incident while it rolls out an update to Omni Core — its software for partners — that will prevent the stolen coins from recirculating into its ecosystem by essentially locking them into the alleged hacker’s wallet.
One of the partners that uses Tether is crypto exchange Bitfinex, which itself lost 119,756 bitcoin — then worth $72 million but valued at over $950 million today — in a hack over a year ago.
As Coindesk reports, the incident is sure to throw up more questions about the relationship between Tether and the secretive exchange Bitfinex. The duo are rumored to share owners, and have been accused of leaning on each other to manipulate the market. Already, there are theories circulating that suggest this new attack could be an inside job.
Bitcoin’s value took a dent when the news came out, but it quickly recovered. At the time of writing, bitcoin’s value stood at $8,126.71, down 1.35 percent over 24 hours, according to Coindesk.


Featured Image: NurPhoto/Getty Images


DMM, one of Japan’s largest Internet and e-commerce conglomerates, announced today that it will pay 7 billion yen (about $62.2 million) for pawn shop app Cash. Launched this summer, Cash’s software automatically appraises an item’s value based on user photos and offers a cash advance with it as collateral.
Cash was developed by Bank, a startup launched by serial entrepreneur Yusuke Mitsuomoto earlier this year. Mitsuomoto’s previous startup, an e-commerce platform called Stores.jp, sold to Zozotown, one of Japan’s largest online clothing retailers, for an undisclosed sum in 2013.
Bank has just six employees and the startup was apparently overwhelmed when Cash first launched on June 28. Less than a day after it started service, Cash temporarily suspended operations after it was flooded with appraisal requests, many submitted by pranksters who uploaded photos of things like ramen. Cash then relaunched on August 24 after improvements were made to its system.
The acquisition of Cash by DMM means the app now has access to financial resources and talent to support its growth and expansion into new markets. Mitsuomoto told TechCrunch in an email that the company believes there are business and market opportunities outside of Japan, but have not yet decided exactly when to expand abroad.

Featured Image: Michael Burrell/Getty Images


Today’s Stories

Apple served with a search warrant
Uber orders 24,000 Volvos
Germany bans children’s smartwatches
Using AR to explore endangered species

Credits
Written by: Brian HeaterHosted by: Brian HeaterFilmed by: Veanne CaoEdited by: John Murillo
Notes:

Hi, my name is Brian. I’ll be your host all Turkey week.


It’s hard to believe, but it’s already time for the holidays again.
Time to untangle the lights, dust off the wreath and start figuring out what the heck you’re going to get everyone.
Need ideas? We can help!
We here at TechCrunch spend most of our days thinking about whatever new gizmo or gadget is about to hit the shelves, and we’ve been jotting down our favorites for months. As we do each year, we’re taking that knowledge and wrapping it up in bite-sized gift guides for your perusal. Maybe you’ll find the perfect gift for that person who’s impossible to shop for. Maybe that person is you, and you just need some ideas for your own wish list.
Check out the 2017 TechCrunch Holiday Gift Guide here.
We’ve got a handful of gift guides already prepped for your perusal. We’ve got ideas for gifts that mom and dad will still be using a year from now, and for the kids who want to grow up to be engineers or video game designers. We’ve got gorgeous gift ideas, geeky gift ideas and ideas for those shutterbug friends who never put their camera down.
But we’re just getting started. We’ll be publishing new gift guides almost every day leading up ’til Christmas… so check back often!


Uri Sarid
Contributor


Uri Sarid is the CTO of MuleSoft.

			More posts by this contributor:			
The last thing the API economy needs is copyright friction



Software is losing its magic. We simply demand too much from the current approaches. As a result, software developers are losing the battle with complexity, often without realizing it. More often than not, little failures pile on top of other little failures, and life for the consumer, as well as the business, becomes more frustrating rather than easier.
For example, Apple’s products have become buggy, travel is still a nightmare and call center experiences make us doubt both artificial and human intelligence.
To bring the magic back into software, developers will need to stop walking systems through each step to ensure the desired outcomes. Instead, as systems grow more voluminous and complex by the minute, developers will need to make software itself more autonomous through the use of layers, intent-oriented algorithms and artificial intelligence (AI).
If we take a step back, it’s not a huge surprise some of the magic has been lost. We’ve greatly raised our expectations of software, while simultaneously broadening our expectation of who should be able to command it. More and more is expected to “just work” automatically, and more of us expect to be able to control the automation of our digital life and work.
It’s hard enough to meet these expectations when the problems the software is addressing are static. But this automation is also expected to address real-time needs — ones in which the parameters change rapidly, even while the automation is executing.
Car navigation from point A to point B is hard enough in the face of traffic, weather and construction. But what about optimizing for passengers’ phone meetings during the commute, or for physical and digital commerce along the way? How about doing that for millions of cars simultaneously sharing the same roads? How about doing that for trips that combine cars, trains, planes, hotels, restaurants and more.
These factors are starting to mandate a different programming model: a declarative one. In this alternative model, we declare an intent — a desired goal or end state — and the software systems autonomously figure out how to simply “make it so.” Humans set the boundaries and constraints, but it’s too much to expect humans to always figure out the solution to get there. So, computers step in and do it themselves.
The new programming model will leverage computers to solve their own issues of complexity. 


An illustrative analogy is well understood in the corporate world: management by objectives (MBO). A strong MBO approach has employees being told which objectives they’ll be measured by versus how precisely to achieve them. The objectives might be centered around sales results, customer engagements or product adoption. It’s then up to the employees to figure out the path to get there. It’ll often require adapting, as conditions change unexpectedly, and learning in the process so it gets easier over time. So, in a sense, this alternative programming model is one that manages software by objectives: MBO for machines.
Examples of this need are everywhere. One of the hottest areas right now is bots, or interfaces that accept voice or text commands. While today’s bots are often command-oriented (e.g. find Jane Doe on LinkedIn), they will need to become intent-oriented (e.g. find me a great job candidate).
Imagine you need to hire a new sales representative, engineer or CIO. Rather than sitting at your computer and scouring the web to source talent, you interact instead with an intelligent chatbot that does the nitty-gritty work for you. Behind the scenes, the chatbot is linked to an API that orchestrates candidates from LinkedIn and Glassdoor, enriches their information using GitHub and Meetup and reaches out to them to gauge interest and fit. Once a suitable candidate is located, the chatbot connects you two to get the ball rolling. Over time, the chatbot learns which candidates work out, and gets better at sourcing them. While it sounds futuristic, this hiring method is possible today with the right orchestration of existing software.
We can look to the way our own built-in computers (our brains) process images to gain lessons in how software can solve complex scenarios at scale:


In the first layer, light is absorbed by photoreceptor cells, which do minimal processing and pass signals to the second and third layers of the retina.


In the second and third layers, neurons and ganglion cells work together to meet the goal of detecting edges or shadows, and send findings into the brain through the optic nerve.


In the visual cortex, there are more layers: one layer calculates where objects are in space; another layer detects and processes edges to put together shapes; an additional layer turns these shapes into recognizable things, such as faces and objects. Each layer learns over time and improves its performance.


Eventually, the last layer actually matches these faces or objects against the person’s stored memory bank, and he or she recognizes or doesn’t recognize the people and objects.


This approach, where each layer is responsible for just one goal and where the goals become increasingly more sophisticated at each higher level of abstraction, allows software to be intent-based and solve complex scenarios at scale. In the machine world, the layers come in the form of APIs freeing up critical data; composite services orchestrating data from disparate systems; and artificial intelligence making smart decisions at every layer.
This is the future of software, and that future has already started in modern, massively distributed cloud computing systems such as Google’s Kubernetes and its rich ecosystem; in autonomous vehicles, both terrestrial and aerial; and, of course, in artificial intelligence and machine learning, which are seeping into every layer of our increasingly digital world.
A paradigm shift is inevitable, because the mounting complexity brought on by an explosion of co-dependent systems, dynamic data and rising expectations demands to be solved at its core. The new programming model will leverage computers to solve their own issues of complexity and allow humans to do what they do best: choreographing the outcomes.

Featured Image: razum/Shutterstock




Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.htmlAdWH('93484915', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDiv5cbfa33be3');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




The Kindle has become one of the most ubiquitous pieces of specialty electronics in the world since it launched 10 years ago today, but the device has changed so much since its debut that one can hardly believe the oldest and newest models are meant to do the same thing.
Amazon’s Chris Green, VP of Design at its Lab126 hardware arm, talked with me for a retrospective of the design choices that have defined and redefined the device, and the reasoning behind them. Green has been at Lab126 for a long time, but not quite for the entire Kindle project, as he explained to me.
We can never be better than paper, but we can be as compelling.“My first day at Amazon was the day the Kindle launched — November 19, 2007. I walked into the office and everyone was going crazy. I thought that’s what it was going to be like every day,” he recalled. “Then the next morning I went in, they had sold all the Kindles in one day and everybody was panicking. So that was an interesting first 24 hours.”
For the next decade he’d work on getting the Kindle closer to what he called the “gold standard”: paper.
“We can never be better than paper, but we can be as compelling,” he said. “We really didn’t want any bezel or bling or even page-turn buttons — everything we’ve done over 15 generations has been to reduce it to basically a piece of paper.” (With the new Oasis there have actually been a total of 16 “generations” or models.)
That may come as a surprise to those who remember the first Kindle, which with its chunky angles, slab-like buttons and aggressively ergonomic keyboard, seems almost brutalist. I’ve always thought it would look at home on the set of Alien.
Although he didn’t help create the first generation, Green is plenty familiar with its design language. Turns out there’s a very simple reason behind the angles.
“If you have one of those around, you’ll notice that the cross section is actually that of a paperback book — the pages go at that angle,” Green said. “The dimensions are even a standard paperback’s. They were trying their hardest even at that early stage to represent a paperback book.”
That consideration more or less went out the window with the second-generation Kindle, which did away with the sloping pages visual metaphor and walked back many of the other bold but unusual choices.
“All the pitch points of the original Kindle — the little Chiclets, and the fact that the keyboard was split — those were very logical. It’s very ergonomic,” said Green. “So everything is very logical — but when you take a deep breath, and take your head out of the bucket, you’re like, wait, there’s an easier way to do this. There’s no reason for those keys to actually be shaped like that.”
The redesign was aimed at making it approachable and attractive to a wider demographic — one that might not appreciate the severity of the original. In my opinion, it worked: the clean lines and carefully designed proportions made the Kindle 2 a real looker, and years later it still holds its own.
After this, Amazon introduced the short-lived Kindle DX, a large-format e-reader that didn’t catch on, partly because the market for larger-format reading (articles, journals) wasn’t as large or ready to spend money than the paperback-buying contingent.
One particularly high-end feature got nixed before the DX even hit the market:
“In the first version of the Kindle DX, the back had a fully quilted surface — originally it was actually fabric, but that was too expensive,” Green said. But more importantly, he said, “the highs and lows get wear and tear. We don’t want people to be on the treadmill of upgrading, so we put a lot of effort into durability.”
Green also mentioned the attention paid to features that are less easy to define — basically, all the tiny things that make a device better or worse to read on.
“Over the first few generations we spent a lot of time with customers — we went everywhere with them,” he said. “We had a really cool reading lab in our building where we would watch people read and see how quickly people’s eyes got bored as they scan a line of text.” (“When people read,” he added, “they fidget like crazy. It’s uncomfortable to watch.”
They determined the best spacing, kerning, line length and so on, making sure that the device improved in readability even as they changed other aspects of it.
Going dark
The third generation made a few small changes and one big one. The physical interface continued to shrink relative to the screen, moving slowly toward that gold standard. But more importantly, the device’s main color went from off-white to off-black (“graphite”).
Was this a response to black smartphones? Fingerprint complains? Material shortages? Nope: as some have suggested, it’s meant to trick the eye.
See, e-paper isn’t really white, it’s really a shade of grey, and not even a particularly light one. So when you give it a white bezel, the white plastic shows it up and makes it look even more grey. But with a black bezel, it works in the opposite direction: it makes the grey look lighter, and as a consequence, the “black” letters, actually just a darker grey, look even darker.
“That’s exactly the reason,” Green said. “We moved over the graphite to help with the contrast ratio. We wanted the black text to pop more on the display.”
Combined with a new Pearl display from E Ink, it made for a major jump in contrast. And they’d need that before moving on to the next generation.
The fourth-generation Kindle was the first to do away with the keyboard, producing a notably smaller device. It seems to me to have lost something of its soul with this change, though; the Kindle 4 and its successors reminded me more of budget tablets of years past rather than a brand new device.
It was the Kindle Touch, however, that signaled the future of the device — although at the time, I wasn’t very impressed with it or its competitors.
“We always wanted touch,” explained Green; the keyboard and other buttons on early models were largely necessitated by the low refresh rate of e-paper displays. “The thing is, those touch displays aren’t optically clear. When there wasn’t a frontlight, and you put this yellowing, sepia layer on it, it really made the contrast ratio worse.”

The solution, a network of infrared blasters and sensors that could only tell roughly where you put your finger, was a stopgap measure.
“If you have to take your thumb off the bezel, and put it over the display and put it down, that’s cognitive load right there,” Green said. We used that IR window until we got the frontlight working, because that would burn away that sepia layer.”
Let there be frontlight
The frontlight was already well under way, and would be announced in the form of the Kindle Paperwhite. I saw a prototype several months before that, and it turns out Amazon had quietly acquired a company in 2010 called Oy Modilis that specialized in light-guiding films like those used in the Paperwhite.
At the time, having taken care of even lighting, the designers were mostly worried about color temperature. The warmth of a tungsten bulb or flame illuminating a creamy page and ink-black (naturally) text is very difficult to replicate, and at the time they had to settle for something quite a bit colder, color-wise.
“White LEDs are binned into 3 different temperatures: warm, blue, and neutral,” Green explained. “And by mixing those bins you can get a nice blend. So we’ve played with those blends to get where we are now — but there’s always room for improvement.”
Although a frontlight makes for a vastly more convenient reading device, the color cast isn’t for everyone. But Kindle has never gone the way Kobo did, adding a user-selectable color temperature setting. The team opted to keep things simple, Green said.
In 2014 the Kindle line split again, adding the Voyage to the mix. In service of streamlining the device further it was decided to add an invisible alternative to tapping the screen to advance the page. PagePress used sensors inside the body of the device to tell when a user gave the edge a little squeeze, allowing them to advance the page even more intuitively. To Green’s surprise, the feature wasn’t particularly popular.
“The page-turn buttons on the Voyage were expensive and very cool, but there’s something about the button snap that’s very satisfying,” he said. “I was so surprised that people didn’t like the PagePress tech, because it was silent, and a dome switch is noisy. People complained that the noise kept people up.” A lot of research had gone into it, but ultimately PagePress didn’t become a staple of Kindle design.
Some six months later, the third-generation Paperwhite appeared; its chief improvement was a new high-resolution display, but what can’t be ignored is what that improvement allowed typographically. Amazon commissioned a completely new font built from the ground up for the Kindle’s display and type engine: Bookerly.
Bookerly wasn’t a huge advance in typography or anything, but it’s an important philosophical shift — acknowledging the strengths and limitations of the type environment and designing for them, rather than attempting to ape paper. An e-paper display needs its own font and styling just as a newspaper does, or a textbook, or a logotype. Custom e-reader fonts had appeared elsewhere, so it was well past time Amazon did its own or risk looking lax in its dedication to the platform.
Farewell to symmetry
The Oasis represented the largest change to the design of the Kindle perhaps since the loss of the keyboard. It also signaled further commitment to the e-reader as its own entity that only needs to replicate the printed page in some ways. Green said that the departure from the old style was a refreshing one for him.
“There are certain things in the world that humans consider beautiful: the Golden Ratio, Fibonacci sequences, and of course symmetry,” he said. “We got in a tight spot with the symmetrical design in that we couldn’t take it any further — so we took a bold shot with the Oasis.”
“When you see people using these devices,” he explained, “it becomes very clear that they want the center of gravity in their hand and the button under their thumb. But having physical buttons on both sides would be prohibitive [in terms of space]. An e-ink device today is basically a stack of display components and a stack of battery components, and those technologies are progressing at very different rates.”
So they isolated the battery on one side, making it asymmetric (at least, in its normal orientation) but also solving the center of gravity, handedness and page-turn problems.
The new Oasis is actually a major departure from its predecessor in that its screen has expanded to fill more of the device: it’s the first Kindle with a 7-inch display, yet it’s no larger than before. That takes us closer to the “gold standard.”
It also brings us up to the present, though the design is sure to evolve in the future.
The one you’ve not seen
I asked Green if among the many, many Kindles there was one he’d call his baby, a sentimental favorite.
“My answer’s a cop-out,” he said, truthfully, “but it’s the one you’ve not seen yet.”
The difference between a hammer and a Swiss Army Knife.“You know where we’re going, and we’re getting really close to it,” he continued mysteriously. He said that he hasn’t upgraded regularly, but that he’s had both Oasis models and “the next one is going to be even better.”
He was extremely optimistic as to the future of e-readers in general. It’s a great example of how a device with a single purpose is often the right tool for the job.
“It’s the difference between a hammer and a Swiss Army Knife, isn’t it? If you want to go on a vacation or commute, you want a hammer — you want a real e-reader, so you don’t fall down a rabbit hole of your phone.”
And the Kindle business, he pointed out, is booming: “The last Prime Day was the best sales day ever in the U.S. — and the market is just growing. It’s taking off,” he said.
“We’re going to be here for a long time.”

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin / TechCrunch



0
SHARES






























		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'organic-thumbnails-a',
			container: 'taboola-organic-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Organic Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});
	




		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
		_taboola.push({
			mode: 'thumbnails-e',
			container: 'taboola-sponsored-below-article-thumbnails',
			placement: 'Sponsored Below Article Thumbnails - 3X3',
			target_type: 'mix'
		});


On-demand delivery is a coveted service in traffic-congested Nairobi. Enter Shujaa Delivery, a Nairobi-based door-to-door delivery and courier service for businesses that uses motorcycles instead of cars.
Tracy Mulei, founder and CEO of Shujaa Delivery, decided to start the company after she had a bad experience with a delivery rider, she told TechCrunch.
“The main thing we are solving is inconsistency with riders,” Mulei said. “We are also much more affordable than most of our competitors.”
Shujaa has 30 retainer clients, most of which are e-commerce websites looking to ship products and corporate clients that need errands run for them. Although Shujaa Delivery is still a small company and only operates in Nairobi and the city’s surrounding area, Mulei’s end goal is to be an international company. The idea, Mulei said, is to compete with the likes of Aramax and DHL.


The new Echo is a better looking device than its predecessor, thanks in large part to its various fabric coverings. Now, there’s a new option for the outer shell: A PRODUCT(RED) special limited edition. The fabric outer comes in red, appropriately enough, and $10 of the purchase price (of $99.99, same as any other Echo) will go toward (RED)’s work fighting AIDS through the Global Fund.
Amazon isn’t the first to bring (RED) branding to a consumer gadget to support the fight against AIDS; Apple has a range of devices and accessories that work with the same campaign. Amazon’s Echo looks like a winner, though, with a unique design that’s probably worth keeping around to appeal to folks with a bit of a penchant for colors other than gray, other gray, darkest gray and fake wood.
The (RED) Echo is currently listing a release date of December 6 on Amazon, and, as mentioned, it’s going for the same price as the other iterations. Also, it doesn’t look like the “ECHO3PACK” promotion, which offers a $50 discount when you order any three second-generation Echo devices, applies to the (RED) version.


On Monday, AT&T confirmed the U.S. Department of Justice’s decision to sue in order to block the company’s plans to purchase Time Warner for $85.4 billion. Earlier reports suggested that the DOJ would move against the deal if AT&T did not intend to sell CNN.
CNN has a famously fraught relationship with the Trump administration, which has gone out of its way to attack the news source throughout both campaign season and Trump’s first year in office. It’s not immediately clear why the Trump administration would oppose the AT&T deal, a vertical merger that would not eliminate a competitor and was not expected to generate antitrust controversy.
AT&T’s Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel David R. McAtee issued a statement speaking out against the news as it broke:

Today’s DOJ lawsuit is a radical and inexplicable departure from decades of antitrust precedent. Vertical mergers like this one are routinely approved because they benefit consumers without removing any competitor from the market. We see no legitimate reason for our merger to be treated differently.
Our merger combines Time Warner’s content and talent with AT&T’s TV, wireless and broadband distribution platforms. The result will help make television more affordable, innovative, interactive and mobile. Fortunately, the Department of Justice doesn’t have the final say in this matter. Rather, it bears the burden of proving to the U.S. District Court that the transaction violates the law. We are confident that the Court will reject the Government’s claims and permit this merger under longstanding legal precedent.


While I stood anxiously atop a floating platform on my way to what felt like certain doom, I paused to remember my mission as I felt the pulsing heat of the lava planet Mustafar rising up from below me. With the fate of the galaxy in the hands of me and my new friends, I raced through corridors of the base, fighting waves of Stormtroopers, and coming face-to-face with pure evil.
As my spaceship pulled away, and I traded high-fives with my fellow rebels, one couldn’t help thinking we were fighting for something much bigger than ourselves. But then the pixels and polygons left my perspective as the visor came up and I stared down at the same gun that had felt so key to defeating the Empire’s goals just seconds earlier. I was no longer a Stormtrooper in disguise, I was back to being a tech reporter in a sparse warehouse in Glendale, Calif. wiping sweat off my forehead and reaching for a bottle of water.
Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire is an experience opening to the public next month at Disney resort location in Florida and California. It brings virtual reality technologies courtesy of VR startup The Void to the storytelling wits of Lucasfilm’s ILMxLAB to the dazzling theme parks know-how of Disney. What results is a walk-around VR experience that will drop plenty of jaws and open up quite a few people to the state of child-like wonder that VR has often promised but not quite as often delivered.

Sure, it’s VR, but in Secrets of the Empire, VR means a lot more.
You’re not moving around with a controller, you’re walking through the space, nervously running over precarious bridges and hiding behind doorways. When prompted to sit on a virtual bench, there’s a real one right below you. When you see a cabinet of blasters, you can pick one up and get to shooting. Every nearby wall is a wall you can feel and thanks to Leap Motion’s hand tracking tech, you can see your hands right in front of your face feeling those objects.
The free-roaming nature of the experience where you can interact with friends and the physical environment while pushing through to fight the empire amounts to a lot more than any virtual reality experience you may have tried.


Stormtroopers about to get got https://t.co/5o0d0kredy pic.twitter.com/xhvUpI7Veh
— Lucas Matney (@lucasmtny) November 20, 2017



In Secrets of the Empire, you are in the familiar-feeling position of being a storm trooper in disguise sneaking through an empire base and then being forced to fight your way out. The storyline seems to take place around the same time as Rogue One between episodes III (Revenge of the Sith) and IV (A New Hope), Cassian Andor (Diedo Luna) gives you your mission assignments before you don your headset and gear to take on the challenge he planned to accomplish but now needs your help for.
The Void, which was part of a recent Disney Accelerator class, is not alone in the location-based VR space, but while the technology that it takes to make this stuff work should not be underestimated, this is first-and-foremost an entertainment play where the IP driving the experiences is more important than ever.
For Star Wars fans, the team at ILMxLAB has built something that will feel entirely familiar the second you put on your headset and one that you will remember long after you walk away.
Where The Void remains ahead of their competition is in how it approaches experiences as co-op missions where multiple friends can endure the challenge together. This is obviously very much in keeping with Disney’s mission, but it also solves a key issue with VR — explaining what the heck you just experienced when you take the headset off. By making it a shared adventure where you can chat with your buddy or sibling or parents, it further cements the realness of what you all just went through in a way that going solo just can’t.

Tickets are $29.95 for the Star Wars experience and you’d better plan to buy ahead of time as quite a few time slots are already booked for the experience launching next month. The whole experience lasts about a half-hour though you’re storming the base for about half of that time.
Secrets of the Empire will initially be launching December 16 at Disney Springs at Walt Disney World in Florida. Then on January 5, the experience will open to the West Coast crowd at Downtown Disney near Disney Land. Aside from these permanent locations, The Void will also be operating a pop-up venue in London’s Westfield mall for 12 weeks that opens December 16th. The Void CEO Cliff Plumer tells me there are more locations being planned for locations beyond North America and Europe.




As Amazon looks to stamp its footprint beyond the Seattle area, Oculus is making further inroads into the Pacific Northwest’s major tech hub. As reported by Seattle-based tech site GeekWire, local real estate sources say that the Facebook-owned virtual reality company is in the market for a 200,000-square-foot R&D space in nearby Redmond, which already houses some Oculus research efforts. Multiple real estate sources also suggested that Oculus is eyeing a 500,000- to 1 million-square-foot space for an additional Seattle area office.
On its job postings site, Oculus lists more than 60 Redmond-based research positions, for a total of more than 100 open positions in Redmond alone, and an additional six openings in Seattle proper  — numbers that suggest that Oculus is making a major expansion in Redmond and possibly consolidating its offices in Seattle.
In 2015, the company moved into a 51,000-square-foot space in Seattle’s Stadium Innovation Center. This summer, Oculus reportedly leased an additional slightly smaller office across the street in Seattle’s SoDo neighborhood.
“We recently shared our vision to get 1 billion people into VR, and we’re growing the Oculus team in Seattle to help make that happen,” an Oculus spokesperson told TechCrunch. “We’re excited about the talent and growth in Seattle, and welcome engineering, product, and hardware experts who want to join us!”
With Microsoft’s HoloLens operations around the corner in Redmond, Valve nearby in Bellevue and a number of smaller VR companies making inroads in the region, the greater Seattle area is shaping up to be a major hub for the VR industry.

