
Photo editing and sharing platform VSCO has announced the launch of private messages in an effort to encourage people to interact with each other on its network. As the company describes it, users can "exchange editing tips and tricks, share compelling profiles and published content, and receive creative feedback from peers." Anyone you follow on VSCO can message you. The feature will first roll out to VSCO X paying members and will come to free users in the coming weeks.
The feature works like any other messaging service, but is particularly similar to Instagram. Users can forward images they see in their feed by tapping an arrow icon, just like they can on Instagram. A private conversation is then started. It's unclear whether you can have a group message thread, and VSCO doesn't mention the idea on any of its FAQ pages.
Messages have become an essential part of Instagram, as demonstrated by the fact that company told The Verge today that it's testing a standalone messaging app. Clearly VSCO recognizes that users want a place to privately talk, and keeping them within its own platform makes the most sense for the company’s audience.


Ah, the holidays. The time of year when Facebook flexes its algorithms to compile all of your best social media posts into a Year in Review video. These little montages have been sprouting up like weeds on my timeline lately, showcasing many smiley faces and birthday wishes. However, they’ve also served as a lovely reminder of just how bleak 2017 actually was.
Here are a few examples from The Verge family and friends:
ALL THE MEMORIES, @facebook. pic.twitter.com/LxUU5Stu1l
Heck, even Facebook admits that the biggest moments of this year were incredibly depressing. In its Year in Review blog post, Facebook cites that the top three online events of 2017 included International Women’s Day, the shooting in Las Vegas, and... the Super Bowl. Other major happenings included the earthquake in Mexico, Hurricane Harvey, which devastated Houston with flooding, and the benefit concert “One Love Manchester,” which raised money for those who were affected by the terrorist attack at an Ariana Grande concert. “2017 was a difficult year with natural disasters and violence around the world, but it was inspiring to see people help each other when they needed it most,” says Facebook. Cool?
Oh, and people came together for the eclipse, so that’s nice at least.
Still, the Year in Review videos are a delightful illustration of how Facebook AI hasn’t quite figured out that it shouldn’t pair negative memories with cute graphics. But luckily for some, getting a video wasn’t even an option:
my facebook strategy is paying off https://t.co/a4oOOrCMCO pic.twitter.com/Nx82PoP4pz
It’s not totally surprising, given that Facebook usage was expected to drop this year anyway. (Probably because being bombarded with constant reminders of politics, tragedies, and sexual harassment can be a bit too difficult to handle sometimes.) Also, because the teens don’t find it cool anymore.





A 20-year-old man was responsible for the massive data breach at Uber last year, and the company paid him to destroy the data through its bug bounty program, reports Reuters. In November, Uber revealed it suffered from a cyberattack in October 2016 that exposed the private data of 57 million drivers and customers, which it then covered up. Uber allegedly paid hackers a $100,000 ransom to delete the data and not disclose what had happened to the media and public. The company didn’t say how the hacker was paid, or who he was.
Sources have now told Reuters that payment to the hacker was made through its bounty program, which monetarily rewards those who find bugs in the company’s software and applications. Hackers and security researchers are typically paid thousands of dollars for bugs they find, depending on their severity. The sources claim that former CEO Travis Kalanick knew about the breach and bug bounty payment, but it’s unclear who authorized payment to the hacker.
Furthermore, Reuters reports that “Uber made the payment to confirm the hacker’s identity and have him sign a nondisclosure agreement to deter further wrongdoing.” The company also reportedly ensured the data was deleted by undergoing a forensic analysis of the hacker’s computer. The hacker is described in the report as “living with his mom in a small home trying to help pay the bills,” and the report notes one source saying Uber didn’t want to prosecute an “individual who did not appear to pose a further threat.”
We’ve reached out to Uber for comment and will update when we hear back.




Google is beginning to roll out its Android Oreo update for Android Wear devices today, according to a post on the platform developers’ Google+ page (via 9to5Google).
Unlike Oreo on smartphones, the Android Wear version of the update is a much more minor affair, adding features like the ability to change notification vibration strength, manually lock the touchscreen for wet conditions, and support for seven new countries / languages.
According to the announcement, while the update is technically finished and available now, when (or even if) you’ll see it on your Android Wear watch will depend on your specific watch’s manufacturer. So, just like your smartphones, it may take a while until your device is as up to date as can be.


It's nearing the end of the year, which means more End of Year lists. Today is perhaps the most important, with GIPHY's list showcasing the most popular GIFs of the year. In a year rife with sad, frustrating, and depressing news, it's heartwarming to know that the most used GIF of 2017 was Brooklyn artist Anna Hrachovec's super cute Love Gnome. The GIF shows a looping crocheted gnome knitting a love heart that flies into the air and straight to #1 (and our hearts) with 340 million views.
Coming in second is a reaction GIF we can all relate to: White Guy Blinking, which generated 226 million views. Used extensively across Twitter and Facebook, this GIF essentially became the embodiment of mild, polite disbelief. There’s even a Game of Thrones version, courtesy of Littlefinger.
Pugs are arguably the Internet's favorite breed of dog, and this waving pug taken from DNCE's music video for the song Kissing Strangers, came in third with 215 million views. Everyone needs this kind of unbridled cuteness in their lives.
Rounding out the top 25 were pop culture GIFs like Bryan Cranston dropping the F-bomb in Why Him? (at #9), Gal Gadot in her Wonder Woman getup doing a happy dance (#10), the ubiquitous think meme which is actually from the BBC's #HoodDocumentary (#17), and a few of the Stranger Things kids also dancing (#18). Some of 2017's most memorable moments (the good and bad) also made it to the list including; Rafael Nadal winning his third US Open championship after bouncing back from injuries (#20), Trump watching the eclipse sans protective eyewear (#22), Lady Gaga's Super Bowl jump (#24), and Nicole Kidman's interesting style of clapping (#25).


Sony announced today that the PlayStation 4 has hit a major new milestone, surpassing 70 million units sold worldwide. That puts the console on track to surpass its predecessor very soon. (The PS3 sold just over 80 million units over its lifespan, while the PS4 achieved comparable numbers in just four years.)
How the PS4 compares to its most direct competitor, the Xbox One, is unclear, as Microsoft hasn’t released specific sales figures for the console. As of last January, it was estimated that the Xbox One had sold around 20 million units. Sony also doesn’t say how many of those PS4s are the new Pro model, though back in June the company claimed that one in every five new sales was a Pro.
But the PS4’s new milestone does compare favorably to other recent video game hardware launches. Nintendo’s 3DS handheld, for instance, has sold 68 million units since launching in 2011, while the Switch has sold just over 7 million units in its debut year. Along with the hardware numbers, Sony also says that more than 617 million PS4 games have been sold to date, both digitally and at retail. However, it’ll require some big sales spikes to surpass the PS2, currently the best-selling console of all time at 155 million units sold.
On the virtual reality front, PlayStation VR has also hit a new milestone topping 2 million units sold. That number suggests that interest is picking up; it took eight months for the VR headset to hit 1 million units, and it doubled that number in just six months. In August, Sony cut the price of the headset, and then in October the company introduced a slightly redesigned version. Sony also says that more than 12 million PSVR games have been sold as of this month, but what’s in store for the future of the platform is still unclear as of now.
“We’re still trying to understand exactly what people are going to want to do in that medium,” Sony Interactive Entertainment America president Shawn Layden told The Verge back in June. “It’s hard to make predictions about it. People will want it to be smaller, lighter, wireless — these are all things we’re looking at from a conventional iteration process. But I don’t presume to be able to tell you what VR is going to look like in the year 2018 or 2019. We’re going to find out together as we go along.”


Google today is launching a new search feature that will have celebrities answering commonly searched questions about themselves in the form of selfie videos that show up at the top of mobile search results. Now, if you’re curious how many languages does Priyanka Chopra speak or if Will Ferrell can really play the drums, you can watch a pre-recorded video from Chopra or Ferrell answering the question, offering a “uniquely personal, authentic and delightful touch straight from the source.”
Other celebrities who have recorded videos for the launch include Nick Jonas, Mark Wahlberg, James Franco, and Gina Rodriguez. From the sound of it, Google may been inspired by Wired’s new video series that asks celebrities to answer commonly Googled questions about themselves. One of the best involves Ryan Reynolds and Jake Gyllenhaal bantering over whether Ryan Gosling is related to Reynolds:
The difference here, however, is that the videos live directly in search, so they’ll show up on the mobile web and through Google-owned apps and not just on a standard website video player or YouTube embed. The feature is currently being piloted on mobile in the US, the company says. Google is also considering expanding the feature to include lesser known celebrities in the coming months.



I never realized just how many ways there were for a queen to die. In the case of the late Queen Elizabeth, it was cruelty; her people lived in squalor, and eventually they rose up and killed her. Her descendant, Mikki, didn’t fare much better despite a wildly different personal philosophy. She was so beloved she ended up trampled during a stampede for her affection. At times, it feels like there’s no right way to be: no matter how sweet or stern of a monarch you are, a cruel death always awaits you in the end. Such is life in Reigns: Her Majesty, a deceptively simple new strategy game that shows just how tough it can be to be queen.
Her Majesty is a standalone spinoff of the original Reigns, which came out last year and put players in the role of a medieval king trying to successfully navigate the tricky world of running an entire kingdom. At their core, the two games are the same, playing out sort of like a cross between Tinder and a deck of tarot cards. Essentially, the games are boiled down to a series of binary decisions. You’ll be shown a card that asks whether you want to build a new tower for your city, punish a cardinal for lewd behavior, or any manner of other quandaries. Making a choice is as easy as swiping left or right on the card, which then brings up a new card with yet another decision to make.
This structure makes the game seem simple, but you have to weigh each choice carefully. There’s a strategic element at play. You need to balance your decisions between four elements — the church, your subjects, the military, and the budget — and pleasing someone almost always means hurting someone else. Each group is represented by a gauge, and if any one gets too full or too empty, that’s the end of your reign. Anger the church too much and you’ll be burned at the stake; become too rich and your jewel-encrusted carriage will get so heavy it causes a bridge to collapse.
This was all true of the original Reigns, and the follow-up builds off of that concept with a much more intriguing story. Being a queen in this fantasy realm is … well, it kind of sucks. You have to deal with all kinds of complications your male counterpart didn’t, like how you dress, or whether you’re seen as a faithful companion to your new husband. In a game like Reigns, one that’s almost entirely about making decisions while trying to satisfy multiple sides, this premise leads to all kinds of interesting dilemmas.
Unlike the original game, you’re not really the one in charge in Her Majesty. You’re a queen married to a king, and the inherent power imbalance means you have to think things through a little more. When I first started, I tried to be a Cersei Lannister type, wielding power from behind the scenes. But my cold and calculating personality meant the citizens hated me, and eventually rose up in revolt. Later, I tried to be a much warmer, more caring leader, only to accidentally drain the kingdom’s coffers and leave everyone destitute.
Her Majesty never tells you overtly that this is an oppressive society for women. Instead it skillfully weaves commentary on sexism throughout the entire experience. Being a queen changes what you can do, what you can say, and how people perceive you. If you defy the church, the game describes you as “forever an icon to disobedient women.” When you take a firm hand and make key decisions, officials will wonder why the king entertains your “girlish ideas.” The writing is witty and clever, with just the right amount of bite.
Her Majesty encourages experimenting with different kinds of lives. You’re essentially being reincarnated as a different queen in each playthrough, and what you do in one lifetime will influence the next. If you follow a particular path, like endearing yourself to a mystical cult or sending out explorers to search undiscovered lands, you’ll unlock new cards for the next playthrough that open up even more options.
Success in Her Majesty means accomplishing specific goals while still keeping the kingdom in balance. Often these objectives run counter to each other. More than once, I found myself making a choice I didn’t really want to — like punishing a young maiden for my husband’s indiscretions — because it meant I’d be able to play just a little bit longer and potentially discover a new character or plot twist. A single lifetime in Her Majesty is short, often lasting just a few minutes, which makes for an incredibly hard-to-put-down experience. I kept wanting to play just one more turn to see what new thing was around the corner. Her Majesty also introduces a new item system that lets you occasionally use certain objects — like a spellbook or dueling pistol — to bypass the choices offered and go in a different direction.
What makes it all work is the wonderfully tense and often strange stories you’ll uncover. The world of Her Majesty is filled with all kinds of quirky characters, like a shut-in doctor who doesn’t quite seem to grasp real scientific concepts, or the assassin who maybe also wants to be friends. The game gives you specific objectives to encourage you to try different things, but for me they were mostly unnecessary: I found it a lot of fun to try out different options and personalities every time I played. And as weird as the game can get, many of the decisions feel grounded in a way that often made me struggle to pick just one, knowing how it would ultimately hurt people.
There are times you’ll see cards and scenarios repeated from previous lifetimes, and there were rare moments where it wasn’t clear why my decision led to a particular outcome. But for the most part, Her Majesty does a remarkable job at making each life feel unique, and giving you enough information to feel at least somewhat in control of your destiny. Even the deaths are fun to uncover. They’re so plentiful, and often so bizarre, that it’s hard to be mad when you end up dying because of a magical spell gone awry. And after a few lifetimes, Her Majesty starts to reveal itself as something much bigger than it initially seems, making you want to dig in even more.
Really, Her Majesty is the ideal sequel. It takes what was already a smart premise, and adds to it sparingly, but cleverly. Playing as a queen offers more tough decisions to make, and more interesting places to explore. It’s a lot more fun — even if it means more dying.
Reigns: Her Majesty is available today on iOS, Android, and PC.


What does the future of robotics look like? Nobody knows for sure, but Honda seems pretty certain it’ll be cute. At CES next January, the Japanese manufacturer will show off a quartet of new robot concepts, including a companion bot, an autonomous off-road vehicle, and a pair of “mobility” concepts — for moving people and things about. Two of them have actual cute faces, and the other two are at least extremely non-threatening.
But why make robots that look like this? In Honda’s case it’s because the company sees the future of robotics as rooted in human interaction. Honda’s bipedal Asimo is the face (and body) of the firm’s robotics research, but its other major products include the Uni-Cub, a wheel you sit down on a steer by leaning; and the Walking Assist — a harness you wear around your hips, and that helps you walk.
Machines like this that help with mobility are particularly crucial in Japan, a country that’s turning to robots to help look after a rapidly-aging population. And if your robots are going to be helping people all day, we know that things will go smoother if they at least look friendly.
From left to right below you can see the smiling companion bot (3E-A18) which “shows compassion to humans with a variety of facial expressions”; the “chair-type mobility concept” (3E-B18), designed for “casual use” in indoor or outdoor spaces; another “mobility concept with multi-functional cargo space” (3E-C18); and an “autonomous off-road concept” (3E-D18) which basically looks like a quad-bike. All these are concept vehicles, which means Honda has no plans right now to actually sell them.
We’ve already seen the robot second from the right, 3E-C18, when it showed up earlier this year at the Tokyo Motor Show as a self-driving cooler. We’ll be taking a closer look at the other three at CES in January. Stay tuned.


If you like your stuff to be ultra exclusive and ultra expensive, then LG has the phone for you. The LG Signature Edition has a shell made of Zirconium Ceramic, which the company claims won’t scratch (but will it shatter?) even over time. Those able to get their hands on one can have their names engraved on the back. The phone is limited to 300 handsets to be sold exclusively in South Korea at a price of 2 million won (around $1,800), which is a lot more than that other very expensive phone, the iPhone X, which costs 1.42 million won locally.
But what you’re actually getting here is a ceramic LG V30 running Android Oreo (8.0) with only a modicum of system tweaks. The Signature Edition features the same 6-inch OLED display, Qi wireless charging, and a main camera with f/1.6 aperture, only with a bit more RAM (6GB instead of 4GB), and internal memory (256GB). It also ships with a wired and wireless pair of B&O headphones, but is all that really worth $1,000 more than an $800 V30?
I guess you really can put a price on luxury.


Bitcoin’s value crossed the $15,000 threshold for the first time today, marking another milestone in its dizzying ascent. In recent months, the cryptocurrency has undergone a staggering increase in value; surging from roughly $3,500 in mid-September to its current price. And at the start of the year, a single Bitcoin was worth less than $800.
What happens next is anyone’s guess, and most analysts are united only in their uncertainty over the cryptocurrency’s future. Bitcoin long ago stopped being useful for actually buying things (partly because of its rocketing value and partly because of achingly-slow transaction times), so the questions facing speculators are: is this a bubble? And if so, when will it burst?
Some traders figure we’re getting close, and are preparing to short Bitcoin; that is, make bets that its value will decrease in the future. “[It’s] one of the greatest shorting opportunities ever,” cryptocurrency Lou Kerner told Bloomberg earlier this week. “You have a lot of zealotry, and a lot of people, including me, who think it’s the greatest thing to ever happen in the history of mankind. You have a lot of people who think it’s a bubble and a Ponzi scheme. It turns out both of them can’t be right.”
Although the general trend for Bitcoin’s valuation is only up, the cryptocurrency has been extremely volatile. On November 29th, for example, its value fell 20 percent in less than an hour and half; dropping from over $11,000 a tick above $9000. For true believers, such blips are only temporary, but skeptics caution that any plunge could end up being permanent. After crossing $15,000 earlier today it’s value quickly dipped down to around $14,800.
Bitcoin’s skyrocketing valuation has also brought with it a new problem: energy costs. It takes enormous amounts of power to sustain the Bitcoin network, and, according to a report from Ars Technica, it’s estimated that the cryptocurrency currently consumes as much electricity annually as the whole of Denmark. Predicting exactly how this consumption will rise or fall in the future is difficult (it depends on things like the rate at which new bitcoins are mined and the number of transactions), but given that Bitcoin only currently has use as a speculative asset class, it seems unsustainable.
Meanwhile, financial experts are struggling to make sense of the phenomenon as a whole. One analyst quoted by the Financial Times, Walter Zimmerman, suggests that the best way to look at Bitcoin is as an absurd video game with no boundaries. “Users of other currencies find utility in a stable value. But not here in Bitcoin world,” writes Zimmerman. “The reality of Bitcoin is that users are also players. And the objective of this game is the highest possible score.” But how much higher can it go?


Last month, there was speculation from KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo indicating that we could see three new full-screen iPhones with notched displays launch in 2018: one with a 6.5-inch OLED display, another with a 5.8-inch OLED like the iPhone X, and still another with a 6.1-inch LCD display. Now, a report by Nikkei (and spotted by 9to5Mac) says that the LCD model “will probably sport a metal back” and be “available in several colors.” The paper cites a single unnamed source that supports Kuo’s claim of two premium OLED-based iPhones, but differs slightly on the dimensions of what would presumably be the Plus model. “One about 6.3 inches long and the other 5.8 inches,” reports Nikkei citing its source.
While the glass on the front and back of all three of the latest iPhone models is super glossy and luxe, the cost to repair them can quickly burn a hole in your pocket. Repairing the iPhone X’s screen costs $279, more than twice the price of an iPhone 6 screen replacement ($129), and about 65 percent higher than the iPhone 8’s screen ($169). Further, the glass on the back of the iPhone 8 is more expensive to fix than its front display. Moving to an aluminum back on the rumored 6.1-inch LCD phone would better position it as the base model iPhone and probably save Apple, and iPhone buyers, a few bucks in the process.



Xiaomi showed off the first pictures of its new Redmi 5 and Redmi 5 Plus earlier this week, and now the smartphones have been revealed in full. Redmi is Xiaomi's brand that attempts to deliver solid products at extremely low prices; the new devices follow the Redmi 4 and Redmi Note 4, which became the two most popular phones in India this year.
As was apparent from the pictures, the Redmi 5 and 5 Plus bring a very 2017-style 18:9 design to the Redmi line, with rounded corners and thin bezels on the top and bottom of the screen. Around the back there's a fingerprint sensor and a single camera, and the phone's body is made from aluminium. It comes in blue, pink, gold, and black.
Here are the rest of the specs:
The Redmi 5 starts at 799 yuan (about $120) for the 2GB RAM and 16GB storage model, with 899 yuan (~$135) getting you 3GB of RAM and 32GB of storage. The 5 Plus starts at 999 yuan (~$150) for the 3GB/32GB model, with a 4GB/64GB variant selling for 1299 yuan (~$180).
These are definitely inexpensive phones by global standards, then, with the 5 Plus sounding like particularly good value. The Snapdragon 625 is a solid processor with great power efficiency, especially when paired with such a large battery, and an 18:9 full-HD display is impressive at this price point. The phones have only been announced for China so far and will be available on December 12th.



OkCupid's bringing one of its desktop features over to iOS this week. The company's Discovery feature, which allows users to search for specific interests, will roll out on Apple devices this week, with an Android launch sometime in the future. Users can type in more general topics like, "hiking," or more specific keywords, like "mom," to find momma's boys or something. The app will then surface people whose profiles contain that word.
I played around with a test build of the feature and found it to be useful if you're hyper-focused on a potential match being interested in the same things as you. I did type in Stranger Things, though, and it didn't populate. That felt like an oversight. I also tried to type in more niche rappers, like Heems and Lil Yachty, and they didn't come up either. I'm sure Stranger Things will be added either in the coming weeks or by launch, but still, the feature could be frustrating if you want to find someone who loves your super unique thing, only to find that the app doesn't have it in its interests bank.
OkCupid director of product Nick Saretzky explained to me that software automatically pulls out words to populate Discovery, but a human has to approve what makes it into the app. This prevents problematic content and other random words from making it to the live product. That makes sense, although wow I feel for the person who has to sift through all these words.
More generally, this Discovery feature builds on one of OkCupid's missions — "substance over selfie" — in that it goes against Tinder swipe culture by letting users get more granular and personal with potential matches. The company still recognizes that users want to connect on their phone, as opposed to an actual computer, so it's good to see desktop features coming to mobile.




The man who was in charge of Volkswagen’s US environmental and engineering office before the Dieselgate scandal has been sentenced to seven years in prison. Oliver Schmidt had previously pleaded guilty to violating the Clean Air Act and conspiracy to defraud the US government in August for his role in Dieselgate, where VW was found to have used hidden software to hide the fact that many of its cars weren’t meeting emissions standards.
The prison term and an accompanying $400,000 fine were announced at a sentencing hearing today in a US District Court in Detroit. They represent the maximum penalties for those charges.
Schmidt originally faced up to 169 years in prison on 11 felony counts before he entered his guilty plea. He is the second VW employee to be sentenced in the United States for his role in the Dieselgate scandal. Former engineer James Liang was sentenced in August to 40 months in prison and a $200,000 fine by the same District Court judge, Sean Cox.
In a letter to the judge published earlier this week, Schmidt said he felt like he was “misused” by VW in the diesel scandal. He argued that he was following a script written by the company’s management and one of its lawyers when he lied to the California Air Resources Board about the compliance of VW’s cars with US regulations, and that he had come on board after the scheme was devised.
Schmidt’s plea for leniency apparently fell flat. Cox called him a “key conspirator” during the sentencing hearing today, according to Automotive News’ Larry Vellequette. Prosecutors in the case used information gleaned from VW’s own internal investigation into the scandal that apparently shows Schmidt deleted documents in an attempt to cover up his actions. Cox saw these and other actions as evidence that Schmidt was trying to use the coverup to advance his career.
Six other executives have been charged in the US over their involvement in the Dieselgate scandal. The company pleaded guilty in March.



All year, legislators have been bracing for a major fight over NSA surveillance. The 2015 bill that reauthorized the Patriot Act is set to expire on December 31st of this year. That would leave just a few weeks left to replace it and potentially add new restrictions to the NSA’s sprawling surveillance powers as part of the deal.
Now, it looks like legislators may have more time than they thought. According to a New York Times report today, the White House believes the Patriot Act’s surveillance provisions won’t expire until four months into 2018. Lawyers point to a one-year certification that was granted on April 26th of last year. If that certification is taken as a legal authorization for the FISA court overall — as White House lawyers suggest — then Congress will have another four months to work out the details of reauthorization.
There are already several proposals for Patriot Act reauthorization in the Senate, which focus the Section 702 provisions that authorize certain types of NSA surveillance. Some of the proposals would close the backdoor search loophole that allows for warrantless surveillance of US citizens, although a recent House proposal would leave it in place. But with Congress largely focused on tax cuts and the looming debt ceiling fight, it’s unlikely the differences could be reconciled before the end of the year.
Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR), a longtime NSA critic, applauded the new deadline when reached by the Times, saying, “Anything now that creates an opportunity for several months of real debate, I’ll listen to."



Lyft’s first self-driving car pilot is officially underway. The company is sending autonomous vehicles — developed by the startup NuTonomy — to pick up passengers in Boston’s Seaport district, which is a growing tech hub. The cars are not completely driverless, as human safety drivers will remain behind the wheel, ready to take control when needed. But it’s a big moment for Lyft, which has seen its star rise this year as its main rival Uber was beset by numerous self-inflicted scandals.
Here’s how it works: riders will randomly be paired with one of NuTonomy’s self-driving cars when they use the Lyft app in the Seaport area. NuTonomy, which spun out of MIT in 2013 and was recently purchased by automotive supplier Delphi, has been operating self-driving cars in Boston since January. The company has been testing in Boston’s Raymond L. Flynn Marine Park, a small industrial zone that doesn’t fully represent the kinds of environments a driver would encounter around the city.
“Our partnership with Lyft has two goals,” NuTonomy says in a blog post. “First, we want to let members of the public experience driverless vehicles firsthand, so they can better understand the impact this new technology will have on their lives. Second, based on feedback from pilot participants, NuTonomy’s engineers will adapt and improve our system, so that we can deliver an autonomous transportation experience that is extremely safe, efficient, and comfortable.”
NuTonomy isn’t the only self-driving company to team up with Lyft. The ride-hail company is working with Drive.ai to deploy autonomous taxis in San Francisco, and also has agreements with Ford and Alphabet’s Waymo.
Lyft is trying to catch up to the self-driving efforts of rival Uber, which is operating its own autonomous taxis in Pittsburgh and Phoenix. While Uber may be ahead, it is also mired in exponentially more problems than Lyft. The company is being sued by Waymo, which alleges the theft of many of its self-driving car secrets. And Uber’s vehicles have been involved in numerous accidents and traffic infractions, raising questions about their safety.
Lyft has won new investments and locked down key partnerships with a broad cast of tech and auto companies. And with its commitment to building its own in-house self-driving software, Lyft seems to be on its way to developing a “full stack” of technology to enable a release of self-driving taxis on its platform.


Steam is no longer accepting bitcoin as a payment method, game company and distributor Valve announced today. The company is attributing its decision to cryptocurrency’s “high fees and volatility.” In a blog post, Valve explained that bitcoin transaction fees have gone up to nearly $20 per transaction last week, “compared to roughly $0.20 when we initially enabled Bitcoin.” Those fees then have to be shouldered by gamers making purchases on Steam, and the total cost to consumers could be even higher if the value of bitcoin dips in the meantime.
Even if the value of bitcoin were to go up while the user completes the transaction, and Steam has to refund the difference to the user, the transaction fee must be paid by the user again for the refund. “This year, we’ve seen increasing number[s] of customers get into this state,” the post states. There’s even the scenario, Valve explains, that as the user or Steam tries to cover the difference in value, the value of bitcoin then changes again, causing more problems.
Steam says it could reconsider this decision to remove bitcoin as a payment option in the future, if the currency finds more stability, but for now it’s just working with any customers who are still dealing with underpayments or transaction fees. Just last week, the value of bitcoin skyrocketed past $10,000, marking a 933 percent increase since January of this year. Other governments in China, South Korea, Russia, and elsewhere around the world have taken a more stern look at cryptocurrency and implemented regulations or outright bans.


Every day on the subway, I’m confronted with ads that suggest I don’t know how to clothe or feed myself, and it seems like there’s no shortage of unnecessary subscription-box services no one asked for. The fake company Coal parodies this coddling startup phenomenon with its own subscription-box service that “sends you a real piece of coal (in fancy, Warby Parker-esque packaging) right in time for the holidays.”
Coal’s very real website features four different coal product packages you can actually purchase. My favorite is “the Winona.” The product description only reads, “Women!!!!!!!” All four coal sets are on sale now for $20 (marked down from $45). Doing the math described for transparency in the company’s video, that means it makes a profit of $20. So transparent!
Comedians Carina Hsieh (who co-created the brilliant MTA-riding commuter Barbie commercial) and Nicole Boyce came up with the concept pretty quickly: “We're suckers for good packaging and that sans-serif minimal aesthetic that seems to be on every sponsored FB ad / L Train ad nowadays, so it was a natural fit,” Hsieh told The Verge via email. “Since we interact with brands like these every day, it was relatively easy to say, "Okay, let's take this startup / direct-to-consumer" vibe, and push it to its most extreme, and see what it looks like,” Boyce added.
We’ve written about a lot of terrible Kickstarters on Circuit Breaker, but for every awful idea out there, there are at least a thousand more that never see the light of day. Just this week, I got pitched on a “crime-fighting flashlight” called D.A.D.2, and its marketing peg was that it was designed by a father with seven daughters. Watching Coal’s promo video, I shuddered at the similarities to Kickstarter videos that start by broadly retelling history. It’s an eerily accurate, spot-on impression of the state of startups.
Hsieh and Boyce say creating all the assets — the site, the video, and the photos — took about a month. Coal shows just how easy it is to create a brand and start a company, no matter how far-fetched your product is. All you need is a Squarespace website, a meticulously crafted Instagram grid, an intern-run Twitter account, and a Facebook presence. “We went from just creating a stunt video to actually wanting to sell our Coal and do it right! It didn't really make sense to create a business, but then do everything but the actual business part,” Boyce said.
To make things really official, the company launched with a screening and faux-panel at co-working space The Yard, where The Daily Beast tech reporter Taylor Lorenz interviewed Hsieh and Boyce, in character as COAL co-founders “Darby Larker” and “Sam Serif.” A “protester” was even present to hand out pamphlets on coal’s environmental impact.
There are plenty of gag holiday gifts already, like this decorative lump of coal from Target, but the millennial in your life would probably appreciate the same gift in fancy subscription-box form. The company is fake, the address listed on the website is the New York location of Chick-fil-A, and the phone number is Greenpeace’s support line, but Coal is still a real product. You can buy a one-time purchase of a “trial” month, and a portion of the proceeds will go to the Natural Resources Defense Council.


Qualcomm has just revealed the details of its new Snapdragon 845 mobile processor, which will show up in smartphones and laptops starting early next year. The Snapdragon 845 is the direct successor to 2017’s 835, which proved to be wildly popular for flagship Android smartphones. Like its predecessors, the 845 is not just a processor, but an alphabet soup of processors and systems, such as a CPU, GPU, ISP, and DSP, all contained on a single unit. In addition, the platform utilizes Qualcomm’s latest gigabit LTE and Wi-Fi modems for connectivity.
The big new feature for this year is the ability to capture 4K video in HDR at up to 60 frames per second. The 845 can also shoot slo-mo 720p video at 480 frames per second and 240 frames per second 1080p video. For still photography, the 845’s Spectra 280 ISP can perform multiframe noise reduction on 16-megapixel images at 60 frames per second. It also supports supports a wider color gamut and 10 bit color depth for 64 times as many color shades as before.
There are a lot of other improvements with the 845, including better performance, better connectivity, and more efficient power usage. Qualcomm says its new Adreno 630 GPU provides 30 percent better graphics, 30 percent better power efficiency, and 2.5x faster display throughput. It also supports room scale 6DOF and can map rooms in real time for VR and AR applications.
The TrueWireless Bluetooth 5 system will let a single device broadcast audio to multiple speakers or headphones simultaneously. The company also says this system can provide a 50% improvement in power consumption for truly wireless headphones.
The X20 gigabit LTE modem supports 20 percent faster peak and real-world speeds over the X16 from last year. Qualcomm says the new chip’s combination of licensed and unlicensed spectrum enables 90 percent of carriers to deploy gigabit services.
The Snapdragon 845 is expected to be available in smartphones as early as spring 2018, and will likely appear on devices from Samsung, HTC, LG, Google, and others. It will also make its way to Windows 10 PCs by the end of the year.
Update, 8:45PM ET, December 6th, 2017: Qualcomm clarified that the Snapdragon 845 platform supports 1080p video recording at up to 240 frames per second, more than the 120 frames per second initially reported. This article has been updated with that information.


Wolves in the Walls VR, a virtual reality adaptation of Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean’s eponymous children’s book, will premiere at next year’s Sundance Film Festival. The episodic experience follows Gaiman’s story as participants play a character who can interact with its young protagonist Lucy, who is convinced that wolves live in the walls of her house. It’s being developed by former members of the now-defunct Oculus Story Studio, resurrecting a project that was believed to be canceled.
Wolves in the Walls’ creators describe it as “​a​ ​VR​ ​fable​ ​about​ ​the​ ​nature​ ​of​ ​fear.​” It’s supposed to evoke the illustrations of a children’s book, similar to what’s seen in the illustration itself, but it’s three-dimensional and interactive. In the first installment, which runs roughly 10 minutes, participants will help Lucy search for evidence of wolves. In two subsequent episodes, they’ll have to help her overcome her fear of the wolves and save her family. The star of the story, though, is Lucy — who’s supposed to feel like a convincingly interactive figure, responding to players’ movements and decisions. She was choreographed with help from Third Rail Projects, the company behind immersive theater productions Then She Fell and Ghostlight.
Director Pete Billington says that Lucy’s design extends work that Oculus Story Studio did on the Emmy Award-winning Henry, which asked participants to emotionally connect with an anthropomorphic hedgehog. Wolves in the Walls is more ambitious and interactive, and its creators aimed for “​compelling​ ​interactive​ ​moments​ ​that​ ​didn’t​ ​distract​ ​from the​ ​narrative​ ​arc.​” Lucy was created with input from game developers who have experience building interactive characters, but VR adds a sense of physical presence and allows for some experiences that most games don’t, like physically handing her objects.
While Wolves in the Walls is being developed independently, it is backed by Oculus Studios, and continues work that was already underway at Story Studio. By this standard, it’s the third major Story Studio project to premiere at Sundance, after 2015’s Lost and last year’s Dear Angelica. Four other Oculus Studios-backed projects will also appear at the festival: Dispatch, about a small-town police dispatcher facing a crime spree; Masters of the Sun, a story about black communities in the 1980s; Space Explorers, a partnership between NASA and VR studio Felix & Paul; and Spheres, a musical “VR journey through the universe.”


Oculus’ Rift Core 2.0 update is now available in beta. The update includes three major parts, which were announced at this fall’s Oculus Connect convention: a revamped interface known as Dash; a customizable space called Home; and a feature called Oculus Desktop, which lets users access their Windows apps and desktop inside VR.
Previously, Oculus Home was a fixed virtual environment that was also the interface’s metaphorical home base: you’d visit to launch apps, but couldn’t do much in it. Now, users can add virtual objects to the space, starting with a catalog of a few hundred items. Some of these are available by default, and others are unlocked by earning in-game achievements, logging in each week, or performing other tasks.
Oculus says it will add more options later, including the ability to add your own objects, like sculptures from its Medium art program. For now, people can look around each other’s home spaces, and a future update is supposed to let users hang out in real time.
The new Dash interface, meanwhile, lets people access normal Oculus interface content as well as desktop apps, which appear as flat windows in the world. VR desktop apps existed already, but a simple baked-in option is an interesting addition for Rift users.


The granddaddy of surreal, science fiction television anthologies is returning. CBS announced today that it has issued a series order for a revival of The Twilight Zone from Jordan Peele’s Monkeypaw Productions and Simon Kinberg’s Genre Films for its All Access streaming service.
Peele and Kinberg, along with Marco Ramirez (Marvel’s The Defenders), will serve as executive producers on the show and will “collaborate on the premiere episode.” CBS has yet to announce a release date, casting, or any other writers attached to the project. Like Star Trek: Discovery, however, the show is destined as exclusive content for the network’s paid streaming service, CBS All Access.
Created by Rod Sterling, the original show premiered on CBS in 1959, telling a series of moralistic, self-contained science fiction, fantasy, and horror stories each week. The show ran for five years, and has since become a major cultural touchstone. This isn’t the first time that CBS has sought to reboot the series. The first effort came in 1985 and lasted for three seasons, while UPN produced a single season of its own reboot in 2002. CBS also began exploring an updated version in 2012 that was to be helmed by X-Men director Bryan Singer, though the project never came to fruition.
Science fiction and horror anthology shows have been on the upswing in recent years, and it looks as though CBS is hoping to capitalize on the trend. The UK’s Channel 4 and Netflix have scored their own Twilight Zone-style hit with Charlie Booker’s Black Mirror, while Amazon Studios has released a series based on the podcast Lore, and is also readying Philip K. Dick’s Electric Dreams, which will feature adaptations of the late author’s numerous short stories in an anthology format.
Peele seems like a good choice to head up the revival, especially after his critical success with this year’s Get Out, a Twilight Zone-esque horror thriller that used genre tropes to explore race and other social issues, with plenty of unexpected and politically-pointed twists. Earlier this year, he told The Verge that he hoped to direct more of what he termed “social thrillers,” a goal which aligns neatly with the mission of The Twilight Zone. This isn’t Peele’s only television project, either. He’s currently working on an adaptation of Matt Ruff’s 2016 novel Lovecraft Country for HBO.



My advice to readers who disagree with Polygon’s reviews has always been to find a critic you do agree with and take them at their word.
For some, that may be the Wendy’s Twitter account.
In a strange crossover of Twitter worlds (Film Twitter and Fast Food Twitter), critics, reporters and even studios have started to ask the anonymous Wendy’s social media manager for advice on topics ranging from the new Greta Gerwig movie, Lady Bird, to whether Twin Peaks is a movie or TV series.
The Wendy’s Twitter account, notorious for owning trolls and producing quality level tweets in the past, began to answer earnestly, causing even more people to pick the brain of the social media manager behind the fast food chain with the best chicken nuggets. (Editor’s note: That is fact. Please fight amongst yourselves in the comments.)
First thing to note: Wendy’s loved Blade Runner 2049, The Big Sick and Get Out, as did we! Solid tastes so far.
Lady Bird was pretty great. Also, enjoyed The Big Sick and Get Out, and Logan remains surprisingly high on the list. Also, Blade Runner was visually stunning.
Like any good critic on the internet, Wendy’s judgement was tested. A24, the studio behind Lady Bird, pressed Wendy’s to explain what they liked about the movie. Doing the best they could with only 280 characters, Wendy’s took up the task with confidence and bravery.
I think they did a pretty good job and would like to offer the Wendy’s social media manager the opportunity to write about it at length for Polygon.
This is all happening so fast. A great example of the confusion found while coming of age, great dynamic between Lady Bird and her mother, and an interesting look at class differences and their affect on the mentality of youth.
Wendy’s caught the attention of food and movie lovers all over Twitter, which meant people wanted to pick the brain of this film aficionado. The next topic? Twin Peaks.
If we call it a movie, then where do we actually draw the line between television and film. The current line seems to be making one episodic, though the current trend in superhero movies could also be called episodic. Hard to tell.
That certainly counts as fast food for thought! Wendy’s even gave some insight into which movies they were excited to see in the future. Guillermo del Toro’s The Shape of Water sits at the top of that list.
For real excited to see it
People were just starting to get into Wendy’s film criticism when head office shut down all hope of the Wendy’s account turning into a full fledged movie reviewing service.
At least we got to experience this magical moment for a little bit. I’ll never think of Twin Peaks the same.
We’ll bother the Wendy’s account for an official review of Star Wars: The Last Jedi once their social media manager sees it.


There’s been a growing movement within the science fiction community to imagine the future as something other than a dreary dystopia. That’s what Arizona State University is doing with a new digital anthology called Visions, Ventures, Escape Velocities: A Collection of Space Futures.
The book comes from the university’s Center for Science and the Imagination (CSI), which was founded in 2012 to bring together artists, scientists, and engineers to think about the future. CSI has produced similar anthologies in the past, including the Neal Stephenson-edited Hieroglyph: Stories and Visions for a Better Future, which sought to recapture science fiction’s legacy of optimism.
Visions, Ventures, Escape Velocities is all about the coming future of space travel, with stories from a fantastic lineup of authors: Madeline Ashby, Steven Barnes, Eileen Gunn, Ramez Naam, Carter Scholz, Karl Schroeder, and Vandana Singh. They write about the challenges of and intersections between public and private space travel, with stories set in low Earth orbit, Mars, the asteroid belt, and beyond. The book also includes an interview with New York 2140 author Kim Stanley Robinson, and a series of related essays.
The book is free to download in ePub, Mobi, iBook, and PDF formats, or you can order a physical paperback. There’s even a version aimed at kids and educators, which takes out the profanity.


Lytro’s once futuristic “living pictures,” which photographers and viewers alike were able to refocus to their heart’s content after they were taken, are now almost totally dead. The company recently pulled hosting support for pictures.lytro.com, which is where all photos with Lytro cameras had to be shared in order to allow users to play with the refocusing and 3D depth features. This move has subsequently killed all the Lytro photos embedded across the internet (including in our 2014 review of the Illum, Lytro’s second — and last — consumer camera).
Living pictures will still work in Lytro’s desktop app, but in order to share photos taken with the company’s cameras going forward, users will have to export them as .mov, .gif, or static JPGs.
“More than two years ago, Lytro began focusing on Light Field video solutions for the cinema and virtual reality industries and discontinued the manufacturing and distribution of Lytro cameras for photography,” the company wrote on a support page of its website. “As a part of our plan to further focus on these new efforts, the ability to publish from Lytro Desktop and Lytro Mobile to pictures.lytro.com will be discontinued.”
Lytro’s cameras worked thanks to something called light field photography, where individual rays of light are captured along with data that describes where they came from in 3D space. This allowed Lytro to build software (on the desktop, on the web, and on the cameras themselves) that used all this information in novel ways, like changing the focus point of an image.
Unfortunately, the company’s consumer cameras were never very good. The original — a lipstick tube of a camera — was more or less just a proof of concept. And while the Illum occasionally wowed, the process of shooting (and especially editing) living pictures was too much of a chore to ever justify its $1,500 price tag.
Lytro started its shift away from consumer cameras not long after the Illum was released. And the company seems to have found success in translating its light field tech to the worlds of professional cinema and virtual reality, where issues like size and speed sometimes matter less, especially if the tradeoff is heaps and heaps of volumetric data.
But another reason Lytro’s consumer efforts failed was also the same reason it felt like it would succeed. The core idea Lytro first explored — being able to correctly focus a photo that you screwed up — was so powerful that it proliferated into some smartphone and traditional digital cameras. They’re often locked to a specific shooting mode (like Selective Focus on Samsung’s phones, for example), but the fact remains that these companies found ways to mimic Lytro’s fancy, expensive, and slow light field capture process with just software, and deliver it in a product that’s already in your pocket.


Michael Shannon isn’t just a screen villain. He’s frequently played soulful, sympathetic heroes, particularly in the films of writer-director Jeff Nichols (Shotgun Stories, Take Shelter, Midnight Special). His stage career, as an actor, director, and co-founder of Chicago’s Red Orchid Theatre, has let him take on a wide variety of characters, like the embattled, disintegrating romantic lead in the stage and film version of Tracy Letts’ grueling Bug. And he’s been nominated twice for Best Supporting Actor Oscars, in both cases for sympathetic parts: as a mentally ill man in Revolutionary Road, and a fascinating detective in Nocturnal Animals.
But Shannon is an intense, fervent actor, and that makes his villain roles in films like Guillermo del Toro’s new horror / romance / fantasy The Shape of Water standout. Strickland, a government agent working behind the scenes to counter Russian space supremacy in the 1950s, is vehemently opposed to the kinds of creature-feature freaks of nature that often become the stars of del Toro films like Hellboy and Pan’s Labyrinth. Shannon plays Strickland as a disintegrating man (literally, at points) who’s laser-focused on enforcing a white, suburban, two-kids-and-a-dog vision of America, and doesn’t understand why it isn’t making him happy. Strickland is in keeping with some of Shannon’s other memorable villain roles — Prohibition agent Nelson Van Alden in HBO’s Boardwalk Empire, legendary mob hitman Richard Kuklinski in 2013’s The Iceman, or Kryptonian antagonist General Zod in Zack Snyder’s Man of Steel. The character has some depth and nuance, but that doesn’t make his intentions any less horrifying, or their execution any less unsettling.
I recently sat down with Shannon in Chicago to talk about del Toro’s political symbolism in The Shape of Water, what’s going on in Strickland’s head, and what “Shannoning” means to the film’s cast.
Leading up to this film, you often talked about how excited you were to work with Guillermo del Toro. What about working with him was compelling to you?
His vocabulary. His cinematic vocabulary. When I saw Pan’s Labyrinth, I thought, “This is a standalone movie. There’s no other movie — it defies genre. It defies comparison. It is like a crystal-pure thing that came from this man’s mind and his heart. I was very moved by it. So ever since I saw it, I was a big fan of his. I was out in LA, and we had lunch, and he said, “You know, I’ve been tinkering around with this script for a while now on this idea, and I think I finally got it about where I want it. I’ve had you in mind.” This was very flattering.
What’s he like with actors? How does working with him differ from working with someone like Jeff Nichols or Zack Snyder?
You know, that’s a difficult question to answer, really. The trick, I think, with directing, is that you have a vision. Good directors are very prepared, and have spent a lot of time considering their vision. Guillermo is a huge believer in preparation. He wants to sit down with the actors weeks in advance of shooting. He wants to rehearse, he wants to go through the whole script. He wants to come up with the backstory of the character. He gave me a backstory to Strickland. He’s like, “You’re welcome to elaborate on this, or go any way you want about it, but for what it’s worth, this is what I thought. This is how this character came into my imagination.”
So you have to have that very definitive vision of the story and the characters in the film, but also be constantly on the lookout for things that will surprise you. Things that were unforeseen to you, no matter how much preparation you did. Happy accidents, you know? This requires a great amount of attention and concentration. And you have to make the actors feel comfortable and relaxed enough so that they’re not stymied, so their blood is flowing, and they’re breathing normally, and they can have an organic moment.
Guillermo’s very masterful at that. He has a great combination of seriousness and fun, serious fun. When he can feel something coming to life, there’s such a joy about it that it’s infectious. There’s a giddiness about really cracking into a particular scene, or a particular moment.
Can you think of anything specific on the set where he did something particularly funny or joyous?
[Laughs] I’ve shot about 500 movies since I shot Shape of Water, so I’m not really sure I’m going to be able to answer that question. All I can say is that he caught on very early that I was pretty relentless about things. I’m very meticulous. I don’t like to leave a scene. I like to do lots of takes. Oftentimes I’ll come up with something in the first three takes that the director will say, “Well, that’s perfectly usable. That serves the function I was looking for.” And I’ll be like, “No, we can’t move on. I know we’re close to something, I know there’s something more here. What about this version, or what about that version?” And I think because Guillermo has a similar kind of neurosis, he was tickled to see someone who might actually have it worse than he does.
On set, they came up with this idea, this vernacular — this is embarrassing, I can’t really do this without sounding like I’m trying to glorify myself. But Octavia [Spencer] came up with this term on set, “Shannoning,” where you get something right in one take. Every once in a while, after one take, Guillermo would be like “That’s perfect!” and Octavia would say, “I Shannoned it!” It became part of our vernacular. But even if I got, early on, what he was going for, I always wanted to keep kicking it around, just because it was so delicious. A delicious character is such a rare opportunity. You don’t get opportunities like Shape of Water very often.
But specific examples? I don’t know. We were shooting nights in the rain, and those scenes were tough. And I had the luxurious honor of being in two. Most everyone else only had to do one of them, because there’s one with me and Michael Stuhlbarg, and there’s another at the end of the movie, and I’m in both. So I spent a few nights up all night in the cold, drenching, soaking wet. Which really builds character. But those are the nights where you really find out who everybody is.
But even on those nights, Guillermo was happy. He was so happy to be making this movie. I think he’d really wanted to make it for a long time.
Do you find it easier to get to where you want to be with the character when you’re on the set, in costume, with everyone around you and the cameras going? Do you want that live exploration, rather than doing it in rehearsal?
If the material’s strong enough, I don’t think you’re ever done exploring, ever. On stage, in the theater, I’ve done some very long runs of plays, and I’ve done plays more than once. I just finished going back to a play I had done five years ago. If the writing is strong enough… there are so many different variables. Every single moment, something different could happen. I’ve never been able to convince myself that a take is the absolute right thing. I have a very chaotic mind. So I gravitate toward chaos.
Do you prefer a director who’s very ordered, and will complement you and challenge that impulse? Or would you rather work with someone who’s equally chaotic, and can roll with the experiments?
There needs to be some structure. Otherwise, you end up with Apocalypse Now. I’ve certainly had times — and I’m not going to go into who, what, where, or how — but I’ve seen certain people in the directorial position where I’ve been like, “You need to know better what you’re trying to do.” It’s a combination. It’s a balance. It can’t be all one thing.
I’ve worked with some of the old-school directors, like Sidney Lumet, who’s like, “We’re going to be done in eight hours every day, because I know exactly what this is, and I’m not going to fuck around and waste people’s time. We’re going to go home at a decent hour to have dinner with our families.” And that’s good. I’ve loved that, too. That was one of the highlights of my career. And that’s not chaos, that’s Sidney saying, “This is the story. This is what happens.”
More than anything, I just enjoy variety. I enjoy working with different people on different stories in different places. Acting is the opposite of going for 40 years every day to the same office and having lunch in the same restaurant. It’s the exact opposite.
In an interview about Frank & Lola, you described your character Frank as having a frightening emptiness inside him that he tried to fill with other people. That feels like it would apply to Strickland, and to a lot of characters you play, though they use different things to fill that emptiness. Do you see any similarity between these characters?
Wow, that’s a really interesting question. I don’t think Frank is as uptight as Strickland. Strickland is an uptight guy. He’s really bought hook, line, and sinker into the whole thing of, “If you follow the rules, and do what your boss tells you to do, you’re going to have a nice life. You’re going to get a nice car and a nice house, and your wife’s going to make you happy, and everything’s going to be okay.” The sparkling-chrome version of life that was the ideal in that period of time in our culture, and even to a certain extent, nowadays, although we’re much more cynical. I don’t think Frank would have necessarily fallen for that ruse. He’s a little more worldly.
It just seems like Strickland has that emptiness, too.
Well yeah, it’s not working. Nothing he’s doing is working. And that’s an emptiness and an anxiety. Guillermo and I talked about that a lot, the anxiety of that equation: “Well, if I do this, I’m going to get this. But wait a minute. That’s not true.” And this unease that it may not be true. That’s what he really wanted to capture in the character of Strickland.
That feels like an anxiety we’re seeing a lot right now in America: that fear of missing something, of not being able to find happiness. And a lot of people are expressing it the way he does, with sadism and racism and prejudice. Trying to find someone to blame, trying to make other people unhappy as well.
I welcome all of that discussion about this film. I think Guillermo does as well. At the end of the day, it’s really about love and beauty, and it should be an entertaining experience. I think Guillermo would probably off himself if he thought we’d made a boring movie. But Guillermo’s a deeply political person, and I am, too. And if this movie, and Strickland in particular, leads people to have that kind of discussion, I would welcome that. It’s essential. In a way, it’s a huge responsibility. I welcome it.
Because I want to understand it, too. I don’t just hate people that voted for Trump. I’m trying to figure out what’s going on. And one of the ways of doing that is trying to have empathy for these people. It was the same thing when people were like, “Well, how can you play the Iceman, Richard Kuklinski?” I’m like, “Well, I can play him because I’m kinda curious, what would make a guy do something like that?” Don’t people want to know that? I wanna know it. And I said at the time, when I was playing Kuklinski, “Look, this is a very over-the-top, exacerbated version of how a lot of guys make their dough.” A lot of people are living off the misfortune of other people. And then they come home, and they tuck their kids in the bed and say goodnight, and they say their prayers just like everybody else. And they don’t look at themselves as bad people.
But that’s how a lot of people make their money nowadays. The people that are making money, nine out of 10 of them, that’s how they’re making it, by other people getting screwed over. And so I was like, “Let’s look at Kuklinski like a Grimm’s fairy tale version of this.” I don’t mean any disrespect to the victims of the crimes he committed. But I’m a storyteller, and these stories, to me, they’re fables. I want them to have that ripple effect in people’s consciousness. I’m not intimidated by that.
Shape of Water is openly a fairy tale, and it’s openly symbolic. Did making it help you answer that question you’re asking, about how people can live their lives like Strickland?
I can understand the fear. I can understand the anxiety. I can understand, much more, that people are desperate. And people feel like they have not been given the answers they deserve or need. But at the end of the day, playing a character is not like taking a test. You’re not always necessarily consciously aware of what you’ve learned, or the information you’ve accumulated. But it does play into the membrane of your social interaction with other people. It’s more of an experiential thing. It’s like if you meet somebody, you’re talking to somebody, you’re like, “Oh, this guy reminds me of Strickland.” Trying to see things from that point of view helps inform the way you deal with other people.


Allegations that Google has paid its female employees less than men and given them fewer promotion opportunities have been dismissed for now by a California state judge today, as reported by Reuters.
Superior Court judge Mary Wiss said that the lawsuit, which represented all female Google employees in California, was too vague, and asked that the plaintiffs file a new complaint for only the specific groups of women affected by pay discrimination. Wiss added that two of the three named plaintiffs hadn’t proven that the work they did for Google was equal to the work done by men who had been reportedly paid more.
After Wiss’ concerns were raised, a plaintiff lawyer, James Finberg, said today that he would file a new complaint by early next month.
“We work really hard to create a great workplace for everyone, and to give everyone the chance to thrive here,” Google said in a statement to The Verge. “If we ever see individual discrepancies or problems, we work to fix them.”
The lawsuit was initially filed back in September by three women — Kelly Ellis, Holly Pease, and Kelli Wisuri — who argue that they were placed on lower career tracks than their male colleagues and earned less wages and bonuses as a result. Ellis, for instance, said that she was placed on the front-end team, despite having experience in backend development and that the backend team was more prestigious, well-paid, and male-dominated. All three women have left Google over the past few years.
The case Ellis v. Google is the first lawsuit that accuses Google executives of gender bias, although it’s a commonly raised issue against tech companies, including Twitter and Microsoft. Both companies are also dealing with their similar lawsuits of their own.


Wildfires are spreading unchecked across Southern California, adding more infernos to the state’s worst fire season on record. A warm, dry fall in Southern California and strong offshore winds combined to create dangerous fire conditions that will probably get worse. As the winds continue to blow, a dome of warm, high-pressure air is forming over the West Coast that could keep California dry and flammable for weeks to come.
The largest fire burning in Southern California started in the foothills of Ventura County on Monday evening. Called the “Thomas fire,” it spread overnight to burn more than 65,000 acres, jumped the 101 freeway, and was stopped only by the Pacific Ocean, the LA Times reports. Four more fires are raging from San Bernardino to Santa Clarita.
Hot, dry winds blowing up to 70 miles per hour across Southern California are fanning the flames, but those aren’t unusual for December, says Daniel Swain, a climate scientist at the University of California Los Angeles and writer of the Weather West blog. Called the Santa Ana winds, these southern counterparts to Northern California’s Diablo winds tend to kick up during the fall and continue through the winter.
Today was scariest morning commute of my life: #gettycenter #skirballfire pic.twitter.com/aECWhnJ26I
But something unusual is happening: Southern California’s warm winter dry spell, Swain says. “By this time of year, usually, there’s been some rain that’s wetted things down,” he says in a telephone interview, speaking over the Santa Ana winds howling in the background. “It’s just as dry as it was in the summer months.”
California gets most of its rain between October and May from storms that roll in from the Pacific, riding a highway of strong winds in the upper atmosphere called the jet stream. By now, LA should have been sprinkled by about two inches of rain, National Weather Service meteorologist John Dumas told the LA Times. But so far it’s only seen about 5 percent of that, amounting to about one-tenth of an inch. Burbank, California, has seen even less, says National Weather Service meteorologist David Sweet. Despite the rain that’s been showering Northern California, the bottom part of the state is abnormally dry; certain areas are even experiencing a moderate drought. “We’re quite parched,” Sweet says.
Update: another day, another unbelievably dry forecast for the West Coast. This is a 16-day precipitation accumulation map from GFS model, which suggests that the next 16+ days could be *completely dry* across all of California, Oregon, and Washington!#CAwx #ORwx #WAwx #BCwx pic.twitter.com/pO169CuHl2
Storms in the jet stream can get diverted by high-pressure bubbles of warm air. A version of this phenomenon called an "atmospheric ridge" is to blame for Southern California's current dry spell. And even even bigger one has started forming along the entire West Coast of the US that could shunt rainfall into Canada or Alaska, Swain writes. “We were dry before and now the prospects for rain look even less likely because of the size of this thing,” Sweet says.
This is the same atmospheric phenomenon that squatted over the state for three winters in a row during California’s record-setting, five-year drought. “The real question is how long it persists,” Swains says. During the drought, these ridges lasted for months at a time — but we don’t know what’s in store for this new one. Even worse news: these atmospheric ridges are getting more common — possibly thanks to human-caused global warming, Swain and his colleagues reported in a 2016 study.
#Thomasfire has jumped the 101 and headed towards the ocean in #Solimar. pic.twitter.com/xRblkvwyQT
And they could become even more frequent in the future as the polar ice melts, new research says. Scientists led by Ivana Cvijanovic at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory modeled how dwindling Arctic sea ice could affect the global climate over the coming decades. They found that as the sea ice melts, the Arctic warms — starting a chain reaction that ultimately helps these atmospheric ridges form over the North Pacific, blocking rain from falling on California. That doesn’t just make drought more common, it’s also possible that it could also make fire seasons last longer.
The findings, described in a new study published Tuesday in the journal Nature Communications, are a hint of what’s to come — but they’re not a prediction of the future, Cvijanovic cautions. Other shifts in air pollution, greenhouse gasses, and even volcanic activity over the coming decades could also change how much rain falls on California. (In fact, another recent study suggests climate change could make California wetter.)
What’s clear for now is that the dry, windy weather forecast for Southern California means that the firefighters struggling to stop the flames have a long battle ahead of them. “The fire season in Southern California stops when you get enough rain that everything gets wet and turns plump and green,” says Bill Stewart, a forestry specialist at UC Berkeley. “That’s the only thing that’s going to change the system down there.”
Incredible amount of smoke being picked up on satellite right now from the wildfires in Southern California. #ThomasFire #RyeFire #CreekFire pic.twitter.com/vEH3vkm7IJ


Tidal is now compatible with CarPlay, the streaming service announced today. Users will be able to stream music directly through their infotainment systems on the over 200 car models that support Apple CarPlay.
Subscribers will have access to their favorited songs, albums, and playlists through the My Collection section, and a special version of Tidal’s Explore section will let users find new music and podcasts as well as the most played versions of both.
This is the second major update for Tidal’s mobile apps in as many months, after it gained Sonos controls a few weeks ago. Although there is no word if and when Tidal will support Android Auto, CarPlay support is available on iPhone 5 and newer devices today.



Astronomers have spotted the most distant supermassive black hole ever seen in our Universe — a behemoth that’s nearly a billion times more massive than our Sun. This is no ordinary black hole either, but an active one known as a quasar that’s surrounded by a super bright, highly energetic disk of swirling gas and dust. And its discovery could help scientists learn more about what conditions were like when the Universe was still quite young.
The object — detailed in studies published today in Nature and the Astrophysical Journal Letters — gives us a great snapshot of the past. It’s so far away that its light has taken around 13.1 billion years to reach us. And since the Big Bang is thought to have occurred 13.8 billion years ago, astronomers are seeing this black hole as it looked when the Universe was just 690 million years old. On the cosmological timescale, that’s basically when the Universe was a mere toddler.
Scientists aren’t quite sure when the first stars formed after the Big Bang, but studying the gases in this quasar can tell us a bit about how the Universe was evolving at that time. And the search is still on to find more distant quasars, possibly ones that existed at an even earlier time. The more quasars we find, the better portrait astronomers can paint of the early Universe.
“Already we can learn a lot about the early Universe with this one, but of course you want more,” Bram Venemans, a black hole researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Astronomy who was part of the quasar’s discovery, tells The Verge.
Quasars make up the centers of massive galaxies, and they’re thought to be some of the most luminous objects in the Universe. The black holes within them don’t actually emit any light, but the surrounding gas and dust churn so fast and create so much friction that they give off a ton of light and heat. However, it’s basically impossible to see the visible light from these objects, since quasars are super far away from Earth.
That’s why astronomers look for quasars in the infrared or near-infrared — light with wavelengths much longer than that of visible light that can be picked up with specialized telescopes. By studying this light, scientists can figure out just how far away a quasar is. Since the Universe is expanding, distant quasars are moving away from Earth, causing their light to stretch into even longer wavelengths and get “redder.” It’s a concept known as redshift, and it can tell us which quasars are farther out than others. The more distant an object is, the faster it appears to be moving away from us and the more its light has shifted toward the red end of the spectrum.
Finding the most far-out quasars has been a multi-year process for Venemans and his team, including Eduardo Bañados of the Carnegie Institution for Science. They estimate that there are just 20 to 100 quasars at these incredibly extreme distances across the entire sky. Given the sheer amount of bright objects in the Universe, it makes the search long and tedious: the researchers spent many years combing through data from telescopes that have surveyed the stars, looking for candidates that might be super-distant quasars. Complicating matters is that sometimes, stars known as brown dwarfs can actually look pretty similar to quasars — but many of these objects reside in our own galaxy.
Ultimately, Bañados found a number of candidates he thought could be distant quasars and then analyzed them further with the Magellan telescopes in Chile to find this latest object. Up until this point, the farthest quasar that had ever been found was observed 13 billion light-years away, so it looked as it did when the Universe was 750 million years old. That’s only a 60-million-year difference gap between this newly discovered quasar. But at that time, 60 million years was just 10 percent of the age of the Universe. “Things were changing very rapidly,” Bañados tells The Verge.
In fact, astronomers believe this latest quasar was around when the Universe was going through a pivotal transition period. For hundreds of millions of years after the Big Bang, the Universe was a fairly boring place, a time often referred to as the Dark Ages. There weren’t any stars or black holes, but instead a bunch of dark matter, as well as hydrogen and helium spread throughout. Eventually these basic elements would collapse in on themselves and come together to form the first stars. And those stars would generate a bunch of radiation, stripping the electrons off the surrounding hydrogen in the Universe. It was a key moment in the Universe’s history known as the Epoch of Reionization, in which the hydrogen shifted from being neutral to ionized — and brought the Dark Ages to an end.
However, scientists aren’t quite sure when this shift happened. They think it started around 500 million years after the Big Bang and finished up when the Universe was 1 billion years old — but it’s been difficult to narrow down the exact timeline. Now this quasar is providing some answers. By studying the light from this object, the astronomers found that much of the hydrogen around the quasar was still neutral. So they believe that this quasar existed right in the middle of the Epoch of Reionization.
There are still some aspects of this quasar that puzzle astronomers, though. For instance, it’s curious how a quasar this massive could have even existed back then. It takes quite a long time for black holes to acquire enough material to grow so big, and astronomers originally thought the process would have taken longer than 690 million years. That’s why the astronomers plan to keep searching for distant quasars like this one to better understand what was around back then. “The expectation is they shouldn’t be there but now we know that there’s at least one,” says Bañados, adding, “that’s really difficult for black hole models to explain.”






Ahead of next week’s FCC vote on a rollback of net neutrality protections, activist groups have planned protests at Verizon stores tomorrow. The groups are relying on locals to organize those protests, which means there are plans to hold them at retail stores around the country.
For potential attendees, the groups have released an interactive, searchable map, which also includes events at lawmakers’ offices. Protestors can look up their zip codes to find the planned events closest to them. “These protests will be quick, fun, and 100% legal,” the activists say.
While the turnout will largely depend on the area — one New York City protest has more than 700 RSVPs, while most have just a handful — the groups are attempting to give the protests some uniformity by releasing a guide for local planners and asking organizers to “try to undertake the activities,” like calling lawmakers and making short speeches about net neutrality. Protestors will also rally online with the hashtag #StopTheFCC.


Last week, George R.R. Martin revealed that the Syfy channel picked up an adaptation of his 1980 novella Nightflyers for a 10-episode first season, and said that if all goes well, the show should premiere in summer 2018. In a new post on his LiveJournal, he commends the production for correcting a longstanding complaint he had with the art for his novella, and the story’s 1987 film adaptation — whitewashing.
In his post, Martin outlines a bit of Nightflyers history. His original story is about a group of scientists who hire a starship — the Nightflyer — to transport them to an alien starship they hope to study. The three main characters are Karoly d'Branin, the expedition’s leader; Royd Eris, Nightflyer’s captain; and Melantha Jhirl, a genetically enhanced human, who’s described as “a head taller than anyone on board, a large-framed, large-breasted, long-legged, strong, muscles moving fluidly beneath shiny coal-black skin.” Martin later expanded the story, which appeared in a paperback collection in 1985, where for the first time, a cover artist depicted Melantha Jhirl — as a white woman.
Martin says he argued with his publisher: “Melantha was black, I pointed out. My publisher acknowledged as much, but declined to make a change. ‘Do you want your book to sell?’ he asked me. Of course I did, I replied. ‘Well, if we put a black woman on the cover, no one will buy it.’” Later, when the story was adapted as a film, the character was played by a white actor, Catherine Mary Stewart.
When Martin learned that Syfy was producing a new adaptation of the story, he reached out to the project’s producers and writers, and recounted his frustrations with the various depictions of the character. Most authors don’t have much direct say in the adaptations of their work, and Martin isn’t directly involved in this production, but he writes that the producers seem to have listened, casting Jodie Turner-Smith (True Blood, The Last Ship) for the role. “Maybe it took thirty years,” Martin writes, “but at long last I can say: now, that's Melantha Jhirl.”
The casting falls in line with Syfy’s growing emphasis on multi-racial casts. The channel’s series Killjoys, Dark Matter, and The Magicians feature actors of color in prominent roles. And the creators of The Expanse made a concerted effort to ensure the multi-racial future that is depicted in the novels translated into their adaptations. With Turner-Smith’s casting, Nightflyers joins this movement, adapting the story as originally envisioned.
This representation is important. Syfy has recognized that it needs to appeal to a wide audience, and far too many science fiction and fantasy stories outright ignore or erase people of color from the worlds they envision. But there are pitfalls to avoid here: Martin’s original story has its own issues. His depiction of Melantha is a common stereotype of hyper-sexualization that comes with complicated implications:
She ate twice as much as any of her colleagues, drank heavily without ever seeming drunk, exercised for hours every day on equipment she had brought with her and set up in one of the cargo holds. By the third week out she had sexed with all four of the men on board and two of the other women. Even in bed she was always active, exhausting most of her partners.
While Martin’s story did include a black character in the 1980s, and while it’s commendable that he’s working to raise the issue of erasure, the adaptation is working off of some shaky footing. The original story depicted Melantha as a sort of inhuman, outsexed caricature rather than a relatable person. And in the rush to pat himself on the back, Martin and the writers could certainly paint themselves into a corner with an equally problematic depiction. Here’s hoping the Syfy adaptation can update the character with some nuance and positively add to Syfy’s efforts to depict a realistic, diverse future human society.


Update 12/6/17: This article has been updated with the full episode above.
Another Tuesday is upon us, and yes, another episode of Circuit Breaker Live is here, too. We'll be live today at 4PM ET at our usual spot on Twitter with your hosts Paul Miller and Ashley Carman (that's me!), who is subbing in for Nilay Patel.
Today's show has everything you could want from a live gadget show on Twitter. DJ and tech reporter Dani Deahl will teach me and Paul how to DJ. She'll maybe even make a beat on air with her DJ gadgets. I'm deeply untalented at playing music, so this segment will be fantastic. Then, reporter Sean O'Kane and creative director James Bareham will join us for an epic smartphone camera shootout. They've used the Pixel 2, iPhone X, LG V30, HTC U11, and Samsung Galaxy Note 8 over the past few weeks and have shot extensively on them. We'll compare their photos to hopefully determine which phone has the best camera right now. Send us your questions, too, because we'll address them on air.
As always, you can reach us by tweeting with the hashtag #CircuitBreakerLive. If you miss the live broadcast — which you definitely should not do — we'll post it here tomorrow. See you at 4PM ET!


The Huawei Nova 2S will be launched on December 7th in Beijing, China (or later tonight for those in the US), according to numerous reports, and many leaks already give us a good idea of what the latest Nova phone will be like.
The latest look at the Huawei Nova 2S, tweeted out by Venture Beat’s Evan Blass, shows the front of the Nova 2S in bright blue. It shows very skinny bezels, with dual front cameras, and notably, an oblong home button that doubles up as a fingerprint reader and barely fits on the bottom bezel.
The front of the Huawei Nova 2S fits in with the ongoing wave of big-screen/small-bezel phones including the OnePlus 5T and the latest from Huawei’s own Honor line, the Honor V10, which was just launched yesterday.
Huawei Nova 2s pic.twitter.com/cOWZVOoCXk
Numerous leaks about the Huawei Nova 2S already hint at the phone’s specs. The dual front cameras are 20-megapixel and 2-megapixel, and the Nova 2S has two more rear cameras that are 20-megapixel and 16-megapixel with a dual LED flash, according to a spec leak reported by Android Headlines today. The screen has a full HD 6-inch display with a resolution of 2160 x 1080 and an aspect ratio of 18:9. The phone will reportedly run Android 8.0 Oreo and has a 3,340mAh battery. It’s got a HiSilicon Kirin 960 processor, 6GB of RAM, and storage options of 64GB through 256GB.
Another leak from December 4th, reported by GSMArena.com, suggests that the Huawei Nova 2S will cost $392.92 for the 4GB of RAM and 64GB SSD option. It appears to come in black, white, and the tiffany blue that Blass’ leak showed. An invite for tomorrow’s Huawei event has been making the rounds, which says in Chinese that an even more beautiful phone is coming:




Heart data from elite basketball players show that a surprising amount have abnormalities — but these results are likely false positives that don't take into account how the heart changes during training, say researchers who analyzed data from hundreds of National Basketball Association players.
Training for a sport at an elite level changes the heart, so a chart of the heart’s electrical activity, called an electrocardiogram (or ECG) for an athlete will be different than one for a non-athlete. As a result, it can be difficult to discern whether someone’s ECG looks different because of training or because there’s an underlying disorder that might be dangerous. For a study published today in the Journal of the American Medical Association, scientists analyzed heart data from 519 NBA athletes. The results showed that using the most recent set of athlete-specific criteria, 81 had abnormal results even though the players were healthy.
The NBA requires each athlete to have their heart tested each year before the season begins. The evaluation includes an ECG, and a more sophisticated procedure called an echocardiogram. Echocardiograms use sound waves to create a visual image of the heart so doctors can see the size and shape and how blood flows through it.
Today’s study used test results for athletes who had played during the 2013 to 2015 seasons. Of these, 80 percent were black and most of the remaining players were white, and the average age was 25. The scientists analyzed the data using three specific sports-related criteria that are supposed to separate out what’s normal for athletes versus what’s not. Though 81 athletes have abnormalities using 2017 criteria, the numbers were higher using criteria from previous years: 108 using 2014 guidelines, and 131 using 2012 guidelines.
“When we compare the ECG data with matched echocardiographic data, we see that their hearts are actually normal and these abnormal ECGs are false-positive ECGs,” study author David Engel, a Columbia University cardiologist, told TCTMD. (They found no cases of structural heart disease.)
This means there are fewer and fewer cases of false positives from ECG under the new guidelines, but it’s still not perfect, and there still needs to be research into other types of diagnostic criteria, especially in light of heart-related NBA deaths.
The authors also write that the ECG data suggest NBA players have more heart abnormalities compared to other athletes, and this may be because the average age is older. There are limitations to the study, too. We don’t have a full set of physiological data that might be helpful, such as blood pressure; we don’t know what the underlying exact cause of the changes might be; and we shouldn’t generalize this to other sports. The results suggest that ECG criteria may need to be individualized for sport and that tore research should be done to find out better diagnostic methods.
Correction 12/7/17, 2017 9:23 a.m. EST: An earlier version of this post did not clarify that the heart abnormalities were likely false positives.





Last week, we found a way to water our plants by singing to them. This week, we’re focusing inward, and taking care of ourselves with a simple paper-enclosed bot.
This lamp will beep cheerfully to remind you when it’s time to stop and relax. When you pick it up and hold it in your lap, it will pulse at a rate of six breaths per minute to help you regulate your breathing. After five minutes, it turns itself off.
The build process is relaxing in of itself — no soldering, and some fun origami. Instructions are below!
If you have questions about the build or are looking for more hacks, find me on Twitter at @christinesunu or check out hackpretty.com.
Set up your Particle Internet Button by opening this code on Particle Build. For more info on getting set up, check out the Particle docs.
Change the `timeZone` variable to your time zone. The time zone is represented by the number of hours offset from UTC. PDT is -7, for example.
Set the `timeToGoOff` variable to the start of the hour at which you would like to be reminded to meditate. Use 24-hour time: 7AM is 7, but 7PM is 19.
Flash the code to your Internet Button!

Make the paper diffuser for your LED lamp. You’ll be folding an origami lotus.
The video has a quick rundown of how to do this, but you can also check out this tutorial for more detailed info. I basically did mine via those instructions, but without any of the yellow paper in the middle.
Put your Internet Button into the center of the lotus and thread the USB cable out of the bottom and to the side. Cover the middle of the button with a small piece of origami paper.
The lamp will automatically remind you that it is time to meditate, every day at the time you listed in the firmware.
If you want to start a session sooner, or end a session before your five minutes are up, you can jerk the lamp quickly to the side. This will cause the lamp to start your meditation timer or — if it is currently meditating — return to its sleep state.
You can log your meditation schedule using IFTTT or Librato. The firmware for the lotus publishes two different events. You can track either or both. A “start” event is published at the beginning of your meditation session, and an “end” event is published at the end.
If you’d like to track these on IFTTT, follow this tutorial for logging temperature, but replace the “temperature” event with “start” or “end.”
If you’d like to track these on Librato, follow this tutorial for logging temperature, but replace the “temp” event with “start” or “end.”


The boutique fitness class subscription service ClassPass will soon offer a more budget-friendly option after routine price hikes. The company announced today that it'll launch a new service called ClassPass Live in 2018. Instead of attending classes in-person, subscribers will be able to live stream workouts that are produced in-house at the company's Brooklyn-based studios. They can watch live or stream later from their TV, browser, smartphone, or tablet. The service will only be available in the US at first.
It'll cost $10 a month for existing members and $15 a month for new members. A $60 starter kit fee includes a heart rate monitor and Google Chromecast. ClassPass founder Payal Kadakia tells Business Insider that the first classes will involve heart rate training, and that, of course, the shipped heart rate monitors will evaluate a wearer's workout.
The whole concept hits on the at-home workout trend built around a popular fitness company called Peloton. That company allows users to participate in live cycling classes from home with a branded, internet-connected bike. However, Peloton is notably more expensive than what ClassPass is offering. A Peloton bike costs $1,995, and cycling shoes can cost at least $100. Oh, and the actual classes cost $39 a month. ClassPass Live sounds more like YouTube workouts, which are free. BuzzFeed actually made a list of the best workout channels a couple years ago.
Will users pay up to $15 a month to work out with ClassPass instructors at home? Sure, probably. The allure of these classes is often the instructor, as well as the ClassPass name. Honestly, any service that helps avoid having to make in-person class reservation has a shot at succeeding, especially in major cities.


The story that appeared in Quartz this November seemed shocking enough on its own: Google had quietly tracked the location of its Android users, even those who had turned off such monitoring on their smartphones.
But missing from the news site’s report was another eyebrow-raising detail: Some of its evidence, while accurate, appears to have been furnished by one of Google’s fiercest foes: Oracle.
For the past year, the software and cloud computing giant has mounted a cloak-and-dagger, take-no-prisoners lobbying campaign against Google, perhaps hoping to cause the company intense political and financial pain at a time when the two tech giants are also warring in federal court over allegations of stolen computer code.
Since 2010, Oracle has accused Google of copying Java and using key portions of it in the making of Android. Google, for its part, has fought those claims vigorously. More recently, though, their standoff has intensified. And as a sign of the worsening rift between them, this summer Oracle tried to sell reporters on a story about the privacy pitfalls of Android, two sources confirmed to Recode.
To be sure, the substance of Quartz’s story — Google’s errant location tracking — checks out. Google itself acknowledged the mishap and said it ceased the practice. Nor does Oracle stand alone in raising red flags about Google at a time when many in the nation’s capital are questioning the power and reach of large web platforms.
Still, Oracle’s campaign is undeniable. In Washington, D.C., for example, it has devoted a slice of its $8.8 million in lobbying spending so far in 2017 to challenging Google in key policy debates. It has sought penalties against Google in Europe, meanwhile, and it even purchased billboard ads in Tennessee just to antagonize its tech peer, sources said.
Asked about the effort, Ken Glueck, a top executive at Oracle, rebuffed the idea that his company had mounted an offensive against Google.
“Google is doing an excellent job of inflicting ‘political [and] PR pain’ on themselves and needs no help from us,” he told Recode. “We take positions based on the merits, based on our interests, and based on the interests of our customers without thinking much about Google.”
And while Glueck did not address Quartz’s reporting, he did acknowledge that Oracle had “substantial technical expertise on Android because Google stole Android from us,” adding: “We have talked to dozens of people about Android because Google’s deception about data privacy impacts the entire industry.”
Meanwhile, Kevin Delaney, the editor of Quartz, stressed his publication’s story “is unimpeachable and revealed an important privacy flaw, which Google admitted.”
A spokesman for Google declined to comment for this story.
Make no mistake: Oracle’s legal war with Google isn’t rooted in some small patent squabble. The lawsuit over Java has spanned seven years, and Oracle initially sought $9 billion in damages. But Google has prevailed in previous rounds, bolstered by courts that agreed its use of Java code in its Android smartphone operating system is permissible under the U.S. government’s “fair use” laws.
Still, Oracle isn’t finished fighting. The next round of oral arguments in its latest appeal begins Thursday in a Washington, D.C., courtroom. In the meantime, Oracle’s aggressive legal maneuvering has evolved into a political campaign against Google, sources say.
Take the fight over online privacy, which consumed the U.S. Congress this spring. At the time, lawmakers had just rolled back rules that would have required companies like AT&T, Charter, Comcast* and Verizon to obtain permission before selling their customers’ web-browsing histories to advertisers. Some Republicans said the rules targeting ISPs were heavy-handed and unfair because they didn’t apply to tech giants like Facebook and Google in equal measure. To that end, one GOP lawmaker, Rep. Marsha Blackburn, introduced a bill that aimed to subject both industries to tougher privacy regulations.
Naturally, Google opposed that idea — and speaking through one of its trade associations, the search giant pledged to fight. Days after Blackburn introduced the bill, however, Oracle publicly praised the lawmaker for her work product. Many in tech saw it as an odd move for a company with no search or advertising business.
Then, Oracle purchased mobile billboards in Blackburn’s home state, Tennessee, in an apparent bid to rile locals about the power and reach of Silicon Valley, two sources told Recode. “Internet companies betrayed you,” the ad began. It didn’t mention Google by name, but it still charged that the industry had “sold your most sensitive and personal information for $125 billion in advertising revenue last year.”
“Paid for by Oracle,” it read in fine print at the bottom.
Of course, corporate rivalries aren’t new — especially when it comes to Google. It warred for years with another tech giant, Microsoft, until the two sides brokered a truce in 2016. Both companies realized they had better things to do than snipe at each other, and Microsoft never managed to convince the U.S. government to break apart Google, anyway.
The search giant isn’t on super-friendly terms with telecom giants like AT&T, either. And others, like News Corp and Yelp, have explicitly lobbied governments around the world to penalize Google for threatening competition.
But Oracle’s attempts to discredit Google at times have been more subtle. Last year, for example, Oracle intervened in a wonky fight at the Federal Communications Commission over television set-top boxes to take the opposite side of its rival. And more recently, Oracle unexpectedly declared its support for an anti-sex-trafficking bill in the U.S. Congress that Google and other Silicon Valley giants had been fighting. Internet platforms fear it would open them to new lawsuits; Oracle as a company had no stake in the outcome either way.
“You’ve identified a few areas where we disagree with Google and there are other areas where we agree with Google,” Oracle’s Glueck said in response. “For example, unlike Google, we oppose sex trafficking. I would have loved to have been in the meeting when Google decided to support sex trafficking.”
As the two companies continue their war, Oracle may have the upper hand in Republican-dominated Washington, D.C.
Its chief executive, Safra Catz, served on the team that helped President Donald Trump staff his White House, and she repeatedly has joined him at public gatherings to discuss tech policy. And Oracle has since hired aides like Josh Pitcock, a former chief of staff to Vice President Mike Pence.
Perhaps ironically, Oracle’s ties in 2017 aren’t unlike the bonds that Google had formed with Democrats. One of its top executives, Eric Schmidt, advised Obama on policy and aided his election efforts, and numerous Google employees ultimately landed in Obama’s ranks during his eight years running the country. Now, Google faces a tough task trying to influence the Trump administration, where the likes of since-departed aide Steve Bannon have questioned the company’s size.
But Google hasn’t sat idly amid Oracle’s onslaught, either.
Earlier this year, Google dispatched its lobbying army to the halls of Congress, as first reported by Axios, armed with a slide deck that sought to detail all of the ways its new rival was carrying out its “vendetta.” It specifically warned members of Congress about the so-called Google Transparency Project. The organization appears to have many funders, but the search giant only appeared to single out Oracle. So far, the project has produced research about the search giant’s political activities — including its massive funding for academics. Some of those details became the basis for a story in the Wall Street Journal earlier this year.
Oracle’s Glueck, for his part, said the company “has nothing to do with the running of the Google Transparency Project and has never seen their research prior to publication,” but noted that its research “appears unimpeachable."
And as both sides prepared to square off — again — in federal court, Google’s allies once again have taken to the web. A trade group backed by the search giant penned a screed previewing Oracle’s “likely misleading arguments” during oral arguments set to begin Thursday.
Tony Romm is the senior editor for policy and politics at Recode. He can be reached at tony@recode.net, or on Signal, Confide, iMessage and WhatsApp at 215.779.9597.
Their battle isn’t even confined to the United States. Repeatedly, Oracle has urged the European Union to impose harsh penalties against Google for threatening competition and consumers.
To be clear, Oracle and Google don’t have great overlap there, either. Oracle doesn’t offer a competing shopping-comparison service, which formed the basis of the EU’s recent, record-breaking fine against Google. Still, Oracle teamed up with Yelp, News Corp and other Google foes in June, urging regulators in Brussels to take action against its rival tech giant.
In doing so, they slammed Google in a letter for spreading “fiction” — specifically through “its lobbying and public relations machine.”
* Comcast, through its NBCU arm, is an investor in Vox Media, which owns this website.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.


Freefly is a company that’s best known for making camera stabilization rigs typically used by professionals, or ambitious semi-pros. But the company is trying to change that with a new $299 handheld stabilization called the Movi that is supposed to help you step up your iPhone video game. Preorders start today, and the first units ship in March 2018.
The new mobile rig shares the same name as the professional version that first helped Freefly blow up its business in 2013. That Movi was a light, adjustable, and affordable stabilization rig that used sensors and motors to smooth out a camera operator’s movements. It let people capture cinema-quality footage on a budget that wouldn’t bankrupt them, and it’s helped the company expand to a full lineup of professional video stabilization solutions.
The idea behind the mobile Movi is similar: make it easier for people to capture footage that will fool someone into thinking it was shot on a more expensive camera. It does this using gyroscopic tech in a gimbal that’s similar (in spirit, though not in complexity) to what you’d find in the professional versions of the Movi, and by leaning on the company’s now years-long expertise in crafting software and algorithms that make it easier to shoot smooth footage.
I recently got a brief demo of the new Movi, and it’s fun to play with. It’s not too heavy, and the one-sided grip design isn’t as imbalanced as it might seem. The motors moved the phone as smoothly as one would expect from a Freefly product, and I love that it’s built in such a way that you can just place it down on a flat surface (which is especially useful for time lapses) without needing a separate accessory.
But there’s definitely a lot of work to be done before the company ships them in March. The units I was shown were two of just five 3D-printed prototypes that the company has made so far, and it’s still early enough in the process that the directional buttons on the grip still don’t have any assigned functions. (The corresponding app at least appears ready, and is already packed with different shooting modes and options that let you customize the movement of the gimbal.)
The challenge for Freefly is a totally different one than it faced when it announced the original Movi. Back then, the company was wading into new territory, and was rewarded by customers for being ahead of the curve. Now, it’s entering a part of the market that’s been flooded with options from China, and is dominated by DJI’s Osmo Mobile.
The year-old Osmo Mobile has tangible advantages: an extra level of control thanks to a joystick that lets users aim their phone without moving, brand recognition, and Android compatibility. (Freefly says there are no plans for an Android app right now, but isn’t ruling it out.) But the biggest is the fact that it’s on sale right now, and that the Osmo Mobile is, at the time of writing, at least $100 cheaper than the unreleased Movi.


Netflix announced today that season 4 of Black Mirror will premiere on the service on December 29th, 2017, and it’s been slowly drip-feeding fans teasers for season 4 in anticipation. Charlie Brooker’s Twilight Zone-esque anthology series, which originated on Britain’s Channel 4, offers different tales of modern horror, told through the lens of technologies or societies gone wrong.
As of season 3, Netflix had taken over production, and has exclusive streaming access. Very little information has been released about each episode, though we now have all six episode teasers and a series trailer to dig through. Once again, all the new episodes revolve around some nightmare scenario. As Brooker himself put it at a preview event in October, that dynamic has ensured his fans are constantly feeding him story seeds: “I’m immediately alerted to any horrible development in the world. People email me and tweet me about it, saying ‘This is very Black Mirror!’ Oh, thank you so much!”
“Crocodile,” directed by The Road's John Hillcoat, takes place in Iceland, in a future where memories are no longer private. As Kiran Sonia Sawar notes, however, “memories can be subjective,” and they’re hardly a perfect record of events. The show has played with the idea of publicly displayed memories before, in the episode “The Entire History of You.” But “Crocodile” seems more interested in how they can be twisted.
“Arkangel” is parenting à la Black Mirror, wherein a kid wandering off a playground is clear proof that “the key to good parenting is control,” which means punching needles directly into children’s temples. Sure! Everything will be fine. Jodie Foster directed this episode, which stars La La Land’s Rosemarie DeWitt.
With “Hang the DJ,” Black Mirror is finally tackling the occasional nightmare that is online dating. In this episode’s futuristic world, a dating app (or “system,” as they call it) not only decides who you can date, but decides when your relationship will expire. Georgina Campbell (Broadchurch), Joe Cole (Peaky Blinders), and George Blagden (Versailles) star in the episode, which is directed by Tim Van Patten (Boardwalk Empire, Game of Thrones).
Clearly based around a Star Trek spoof, “USS Callister” stars How I Met Your Mother’s Cristin Milioti, adorned with big hair and trying her best to adjust to space life. The episode also features Jesse Plemons (Fargo, Breaking Bad), Michaela Coel (Chewing Gum), and Jimmi Simpson (Westworld). If Miloti’s eye-roll in the teaser is anything to go off of, there’s some campy self-awareness to go with the inevitable dark future of misused technology here.
“Metalhead,” the series’s first strictly black-and-white episode, is directed by David Slade of Breaking Bad and American Gods fame, and it sets up a sinister world plagued by “dogs,” clearly not of the Good Boy variety. Maxine Peake’s character appears to be running from a killer robot dog that’s more Boston Robotics than Aibo.
In the Black Museum, the owner and proprietor promises that “If [an object] did something bad, chances are, it’s in here. There’s a sad, sick story behind most everything here.” And obviously he’s going to tell some of those sick, sad stories. The episode, directed by Colm McCarthy, stars Douglas Hodge, Letitia Wright, and Babs Olusanmokun.
Finally, here’s the full-season trailer, which combines footage from all six new episodes into a definitive statement about Black Mirror itself: happiness is fleeting, the world is scary, but everything happens for a reason. The reasons are usually just creepy ones that say a lot about humanity’s inherent failings.


It’s been more than six years since the sequel to mind-bending puzzle adventure Portal launched, but the series is finally back… sort of. Today, indie studio Headup Games announced a surprise standalone spinoff of its Bridge Constructor series, which will take place in the Portal universe. The original Bridge Constructor first launched back in 2013, and it tasks players with, well, designing bridges. The new spinoff will take that core concept in a slightly different direction.
“Bridge Constructor Portal will blend the laws of structural engineering and technology straight from Aperture Laboratories into an exciting new game experience, all under the demanding gaze of GLaDOS,” the studio explains. It’s not the first time Aperture Labs has invaded another game — there’s also a digital Portal-themed pinball title — but it might be the most clever.
If you’re excited about the idea of hanging out with GLaDOS again, you’ll be able to do so very soon: Bridge Constructor Portal is coming to PC, iOS, and Android on December 20th, with a console version slated for early next year.


Joanne the Scammer — an Instagram, then Vine, then YouTube star who’s been cranking out work from inside the Super Deluxe incubator for the last two years — is finally making the transition to television.
In a press release, the internet-first entertainment company announced that it’s developing a Joanne the Scammer TV series written by Parks and Recreation writer and The Good Place producer Joe Mande and executive produced by Brooklyn Nine-Nine’s Chelsea Peretti. There is no network attached to the program yet.
Former Super Deluxe social media manager Jason Richards discovered writer-performer Branden Miller and his Joanne personality on Instagram in 2015, and CEO Wolfgang Hammer immediately enlisted Miller to make three short videos for the company’s fledgling YouTube channel. Since then, Joanne has become the crown jewel of Turner-owned Super Deluxe, churning out viral hits like “Caucasian Living with Joanne the Scammer” and selling weird, expensive merch. Hammer told The Verge in May that the company was excited to come up with a half-hour TV concept for her at some point.
In the same press release, Super Deluxe announced that The Passage, a new series by comedian Philip Burgers, would debut at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2018. The series, which follows the misadventures of a mute world traveler named Phil, is directed by The Eric Andre Show’s Kitao Sakurai.
Last year at Sundance, Super Deluxe’s The Chances, a web series created and performed by deaf writer-actors Shoshannah Stern and Josh Feldman, was picked up as the first original scripted series for AMC’s Sundance Now. Yesterday, the company announced that the Stern and Feldman-helmed TV adaptation of the Chances web series will be called This Close, and will be directed by Spa Night’s Andrew Ahn. It will star a mix of well-known talent, including Curb Your Enthusiasm’s Cheryl Hines, Friday Night Lights’ Zach Gilford, Academy Award-winner Marlee Matlin (who recently joined the cast of ABC’s Quantico), and Colt Prattes, the star of ABC’s recent TV-movie version of Dirty Dancing. The new series will also debut at Sundance in January 2018, and premiere on Sundance Now on Valentine’s Day next year.
Additionally, Super Deluxe announced this week that Tim Heidecker and Eric Wareheim’s Abso Lutely Productions will co-produce a television show centered around Vine star and political satirist Vic Berger, and Titmouse, the animation production company behind Netflix’s Big Mouth, will co-produce an animated series called Boss Bitch from Canadian radio personality Kathryn Borel.
Seven months ago, Super Deluxe told The Verge it had 50 in-development TV shows it planned to bring to market in the next year. The company’s VP of original programming, Winnie Kemp, explained at the time, “We’re almost like an incubator. We’re able to help [young creators] preserve what they want to make and present it in a way that makes bigger companies feel confident that the execution and the creative is all going to be there when we make it.” This string of announcements is the most meaningful progress on that promise so far. And it’s certainly in keeping with the growing trend of companies using web series as test balloons for talent.


Last month, the first rumors about what to expect from Samsung’s upcoming flagship Galaxy S9 and S9 Plus smartphones began to swirl, and with it came a tantalizing detail: the devices could show up as early as CES for a sneak preview.
But a new statement from a Samsung spokesperson in The Korea Herald is casting doubt on that appearance, with a representative saying that “it is unlikely” that the S9 will be at CES. That said, the statement is an unusual choice of language that may imply that Samsung hasn’t quite made up its mind yet about previewing the new phones, which is strange as CES is just a few weeks away.
As a reminder, the Galaxy S9 and S9 Plus are expected to be a more iterative update on the S8 featuring Qualcomm’s just-announced Snapdragon 845 processor, with a rumored March 2018 release window.


This week, a subsidiary of Volkswagen called Moia unveiled a new concept vehicle in Berlin: a six-seater all-electric van. Blandly brown in color and retaining none of the flash typical of other concept vehicles, the Moia EV probably flew under the radar for most people. But what’s interesting about it is that the vehicle is designed for ride-hailing services like Uber and Lyft, and more specially for carpooling. And Moia isn’t the only company that sees the advantage of a large wheelbase vehicle as the perfect hedge against an uncertain future.
Over the last year, the auto industry has been leaning into minivans, vans, and shuttles as the types of vehicles best suited for these shared, pooled rides, either with a human driver or an autonomous one. Thanks to a convergence of self-driving technology, ride-sharing and car-sharing apps, and battery-electric vehicles, OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) are rushing to respond to shifting consumer habits. And the fact remains, the classic four-door passenger sedan just doesn’t cut it anymore.
“Well, if you’re a believer in the autonomous vehicle future, then the MOIA EV has to be the kind of people-moving super cab that VW and others have to develop,” said Michael Ramsay, an analyst at Gartner. “When we get down to it, these vehicles are small buses, operating, one would hope, in a more efficient way than current bus and paratransit systems.”
VW plans to go into production on the Moia EV starting next year, which is truly remarkable for a concept just unveiled this week. The company plans to launch a “ride-pooling concept” in Hamburg next year with a fleet of 200 of the electric vans. The goal, according to Moia CEO Ole Harms, is to reduce “the number of cars in major cities by one million in Europe and the USA by 2025.”
Other car companies have their own shuttle buses and minivans in operation. Ford acquired the San Francisco-based micro-transit service Chariot last year and has been steadily expanding its presence in cities across the US. General Motors and its subsidiary Cruise Automation have been piloting an autonomous taxi service in San Francisco using a fleet of electric Chevy Bolts. (The Bolt isn’t a van, of course, but GM has said it will release 20 new all-electric vehicles by 2023.) And Waymo, the self-driving division of Alphabet, has deployed fully driverless Chrysler Pacifica minivans in a suburb of Phoenix for its own ride-hailing pilot.
Speaking of Waymo, it seems increasingly apparent that many people will first experience autonomous driving technology not through vehicles owned by giant companies like Google or Uber, but as passengers in tiny, autonomously driven shuttle buses that are popping up in cities across the country. These self-driving shuttle services are quickly becoming the must-have tourist attraction for many municipalities. These vehicles, which are built by startups like Local Motors, May Mobility, and Navya, have appeared in places like Las Vegas, Denver, and Washington, DC. Their routes are simple, and seating is limited, but many see these tiny vehicles as a gateway to introducing automated driving to a broader swath of the population. (That is, when they’re not crashing.)
And when you look at some of the flashier concept vehicles unveiled recently, you find even more examples of how the industry is trending toward larger, multi-passenger vehicles. In Geneva earlier this year, VW showed off a quirky autonomous minivan called Sedric with no steering wheel or pedals, that can be summoned at the push of a button for ride-hailing trips. It looked like a grumpy toaster, but its interior was designed to look more like a lounge than a six-seater airport shuttle.
“I don't consider this a gimmick, but rather a crucial part of the mobility ecosystem,” said Sam Abuelsamid, an analyst at Navigant. “Mobility services will need to operate with a variety of different vehicle types that can support different uses and price points.”
Minivans and shuttles have other advantages beyond additional legroom. There is flexibility to switch back and forth between carrying cargo and people based on demand, Abuelsamid said. And with the addition of automation, these vehicles could be manufactured to have swappable interior modules, with seats or package racks or even drone charging and deployment for package deliveries. Heavy GPUs to power self-driving software can fit snugly in a more spacious trunk.
To be clear, ride-hailing still accounts for less than 1 percent of all vehicle miles traveled in the US. But services like Uber and Lyft are increasing their foothold in major metropolitan areas. A recent study of big cities found that 21 percent of adults have personally used ride-hailing service. Meanwhile, additional research seems to suggest that the rise in Uber and Lyft may lead to a complementary drop in personal vehicle ownership.
And while they haven’t quite hit their sweet spot yet, it’s clear that both Uber and Lyft view carpooling as vital to their respective missions of dominating cities and growing their share of the market. Riders love the cheap, subsidized fares, drivers are warming up to it as the technology improves, and cities love the idea of utilizing every seat in the vehicle to maximize the value of the trip. So naturally, with all the trends swirling through the air, automakers are increasingly turning toward the multi-passenger vehicle as the ultimate representation of their commitment to the future.
What will become of the lonely sedan? Extinction seems a likely course. According to a recent study, the rise of shared mobility services could slash demand by more than half for driver-owned sedans by 2025. KPMG projects that sales of personally owned sedans in the US will drop precipitously — from 5.4 million units sold today to just 2.1 million units by 2030. This could spur a faster shift by automakers toward the production of SUVs and pickup trucks, which already outsell sedans by large margins.
This is a tough challenge for the burgeoning "shuttle" shared mobility space: offering enough interior space to improve on a typical bus experience while delivering on the promise of more efficient road use. https://t.co/BL7XkIbTvk
But if you’re talking about utilization, nothing approaches the efficiency of public transportation. Tech companies may see minivans and shuttles as the ideal mode of transportation, but city buses and subways are still the most efficient way to move large groups of people across (or underneath) dense urban environments. Lyft caught some flack earlier this year when it unveiled something called “Lyft Shuttle,” the description of which sounded pretty much identical to a city bus. But the message was clear: private companies were encroaching on the turf of public transit agencies, with uncertain consequences.
It raises an important question about fairness and equity. As public transportation in many major US cities degrades, frustrated commuters are turning to ride-hailing and ride-sharing services. This can supplement and bolster these floundering transit services (as some transportation experts predict), or it can undermine them. Smelling profit, auto companies make bold claims about rolling out new vehicle types and launching their own mobility services. Technology is transforming transportation, and the hope is that we’ll get as much out of this transformation as we can. It will take more than a few flashy minivans before we get there.




Details are scant, but today Sonos and Ikea are announcing a partnership meant to bring "music and sound" into all aspects of the home. Ikea calls the collaboration a third step for its Ikea Home Smart initiative. Step one was the integration of Qi wireless charging into its furniture back in 2015, and step two was the launch of its smart lighting products in 2016. The first realizations from the Sonos and Ikea partnership aren't expected to be in stores until 2019, however.
“At IKEA we strive to make solutions for life at home by integrating technology into our home furnishing offer that are easy to use and affordable, thereby making smart home technology accessible to the many people,” said Björn Block of IKEA's smart home division. “Together with Sonos we want to democratize music and sound in the home, and we want to create products designed for how people listen together at home. By teaming up with Sonos we want to combine IKEA home furnishing knowledge with Sonos’ expertise within great home sound.”
What this means come 2019 is open to interpretation. At a minimum we can expect Ikea to initially sell Sonos' existing lineup of speakers. But it could also point to entirely new products developed in ways presently unforeseen using Sonos' intellectual property and Ikea's vast network of furniture designers. The latter could be years away, however.
The partnership's emphasis on "music and sound" is notable. We often think of Sonos in narrow terms as the company that delivers music anywhere in the home. But more generally speaking, it can also deliver sounds. It's already doing that by integrating Alexa's intelligent voice assistant inside the Sonos One speaker. But you can imagine Sonos speakers being used to deliver audio for all types of smart-home scenarios: as an electronic doorbell, an intercom system, or as a mechanism to deliver chimes alerting you to the end of the laundry cycle, for example. Or maybe as a siren connected to a home security system or smoke alarm. The options are many as Ikea looks to extend its burgeoning TRÅDFRI series of smart devices in the home.
As an audio partner for Ikea, Sonos is unique in that the company strives to be service agnostic. It's already integrated with just about any music service you can think of. More recently Sonos began integrating with all the major voice assistants: Amazon’s Alexa is already supported, Google Assistant is confirmed, and the company is actively courting Apple to bring over Siri, as it did with Apple Music a few years ago. By choosing Sonos as a partner, Ikea doesn't have to place a big bet on any one music or voice service winning the smart home.
Sonos is, of course, thrilled to have its products and name out in front of the more than 780 million people who shop Ikea's stores each year.
Whatever happens, the Ikea and Sonos partnership is one those things that seems so obvious and of such value to both companies that it makes you wonder why it didn't happen years ago.


The winds are changing in Pokémon Go. Today, developer Niantic revealed a series of updates that will not only introduce more creatures to collect, but also add a new dynamic weather system. The addition of real-time weather will change the way the augmented reality of the game looks, adding rain or snow when appropriate, as well as alter the gameplay by strengthening certain pokémon based on the real-world weather conditions. “Players should expect to see a much better match between what’s in the game and what’s in the world around them,” says Matt Slemon, a lead developer on the game.
The updates will come in two parts. First, starting later this week, more that 50 new pokémon will be added to the game, each pulled from the Hoenn region depicted in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire. Additions include the gecko-like Treecko, the adorable fire bird Torchic, and the swamp-dwelling Mudkip, among others.
When Ruby and Sapphire were first released in 2002, they introduced a much greater focus on weather than previous games in the series, including aspects where weather conditions influenced battles. So the second part of the update — which Niantic says will start rolling out toward the end of the month — will bring this aspect to Pokémon Go. The real-time weather will change the game in a few ways, outside of the obvious aesthetic differences.
For one, depending on the conditions outside, you’ll see different creatures out in the wild. A rainy day will mean more water-type pokémon, while snow will bring out the ice-types. (All of the creatures in the game will be impacted by this, not just the new generation-three pokémon being introduced this week.) “We don’t have any pokémon that will only show up in a given weather condition,” says Slemon. “But there are some pokémon who care a lot about their weather conditions, so you can expect Lotad to show up in really large numbers when it’s raining outside. But if you live in an area where it doesn’t really have that much rain, you might still see a Lotad wandering through your habitat.”
The weather system will also impact the strength of pokémon. Water pokémon caught on a rainy day will generally have a higher CP level, which will make them harder to defeat, but also produce better rewards if captured. The same goes for other aspects of the game; raid bosses may be stronger on a given day based on the weather, while your Charizard will be more effective in gym battles when it’s hot and sunny.
All of the changes will positively impact pokémon, so you won’t see instances where an ice-type is weaker because it’s a blistering summer day. “We prefer to give bonuses rather than penalties where we can,” Slemon explains. “We don’t want to penalize a player by, for instance, de-powering a pokémon that they may be very attached to. The other part of that is we want to encourage behavior rather than punish it. We’re trying to strike a balance between promoting gameplay that utilizes weather, without penalizing everyone who might not have that super high-level Charizard when it’s hot outside.”
Pokémon Go celebrated its anniversary in July, and since then Niantic has continued to tweak the experience, adding in new features like co-operative raids, legendary pokémon, and real-world events (though the latter didn’t exactly go as expected). At the same time, a handful of promised features — including iconic Pokémon elements like trading and player-versus-player battles — have yet to make it into the game.
According to Slemon, the decision to add weather before other long-promised features came down to the new pokémon that were being introduced. “Generation three and the Hoenn region are just thematically tied to weather so closely, it’s a core tenet of their identity, that the fit was just so perfect,” he says. “Generally speaking, we do try to choose features that tie in well with the content that we’re trying to release.” As an example, he cites the introduction of raids over the summer, which coincided with the addition of legendary pokémon to the game. “That’s an important tie-in, because we don’t want legendaries to just be randomly found in the wild.”
The updates to Pokémon Go come at an increasingly busy time for Niantic. In addition to supporting the monster-collecting game, the studio is also set to launch a major revamp of its debut location-based game Ingress, as well as release a brand-new augmented reality game set in the magical world of Harry Potter.



The end-game for Google’s AI subsidiary DeepMind was never beating people at board games. It’s always been about creating something akin to a combustion engine for intelligence — a generic thinking machine that can be applied to a broad range of challenges. The company is still a long way off achieving this goal, but new research published by its scientists this week suggests they’re at least headed down the right path.
In the paper, DeepMind describes how a descendant of the AI program that first conquered the board game Go has taught itself to play a number of other games at a superhuman level. After eight hours of self-play, the program bested the AI that first beat the human world Go champion; and after four hours of training, it beat the current world champion chess-playing program, Stockfish. Then for a victory lap, it trained for just two hours and polished off one of the world’s best shogi-playing programs named Elmo (shogi being a Japanese version of chess that’s played on a bigger board).
One of the key advances here is that the new AI program, named AlphaZero, wasn’t specifically designed to play any of these games. In each case, it was given some basic rules (like how knights move in chess, and so on) but was programmed with no other strategies or tactics. It simply got better by playing itself over and over again at an accelerated pace — a method of training AI known as “reinforcement learning.”
Using reinforcement learning in this way isn’t new in and of itself. DeepMind’s engineers used the same method to create AlphaGo Zero; the AI program that was unveiled this October. But, as this week’s paper describes, the new AlphaZero is a “more generic version” of the same software, meaning it can be applied to a broader range of tasks without being primed beforehand.
What’s remarkable here is that in less than 24 hours, the same computer program was able to teach itself how to play three complex board games at superhuman levels. That’s a new feat for the world of AI.
This takes DeepMind just that little bit closer to building the generic thinking machine the company dreams of, but major challenges lie ahead. When DeepMind CEO Demis Hassabis showed off AlphaGo Zero earlier this year, he suggested that a future version of the program could help with a range of scientific problems — from designing new drugs to discovering new materials. But these problems are qualitatively very different to just playing board games, and a whole lot of work needs to be done to find out how exactly algorithms can tackle them. All we can say for certain now, is that artificial intelligence has definitely moved on from just playing chess.


It's here at last: the Amazon Prime Video app is now available for the Apple TV. The app arrives six months after Apple CEO Tim Cook said it would arrive “later this year” and with just days to spare in 2017. The iOS app was just updated to 5.0 as well, adding iPhone X support and universal search. The tvOS version is available to download on Apple TV 3rd generation devices or later. (If don’t see it, try searching for “Amazon Prime Video” on your Apple TV).
The native Prime Video application joins similar apps from Hulu, Netflix, and other streaming services available on the Apple TV. Previously, Prime Video could only be played on the Apple TV over a wireless AirPlay connection from another Apple device. The new app should be far more convenient to use and greatly improve the viewing experience.
Today’s app release should open the door for Amazon to start selling the Apple TV again. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos refused to sell Apple's streaming TV box unless his company’s Prime Video app could be installed. Amazon did list the Apple TV briefly in September after refusing to sell it since 2015. “We want our player, our Prime Video player, to be on the device, and we want it to be on the device with acceptable business terms,” said Bezos at Code Conference 2016. “And if you can’t, then we don't want to sell it to our customers, because they’re going to be buying it thinking they can watch Prime Video and then they’re going to be disappointed. And they’re going to return it.” It's this same sentiment that's at least partially fueling the current feud between Amazon and Google.


China is the most unique smartphone market in the world: a phone maker can be a global sales leader without ever treading beyond Chinese borders, and small upstart challengers can suddenly explode in popularity from out of nowhere. The latter aspect is becoming harder now, however, as the latest data from Kantar Worldpanel shows that China’s top five phone vendors are becoming a more solid and dominant group.
Kantar reports that, for the calendar quarter ending in October, the top five of Huawei, Xiaomi, Apple, Vivo, and Oppo accounted for 91 percent of the overall market. That’s up from 79 percent a year earlier, extending a lead that now sees companies like ZTE, Meizu, and Lenovo struggling to find a foothold in their home country. Global smartphone leader Samsung is now at a 2.2 percent share in China and deteriorating, according to Kantar’s Dominic Sunnebo.
It’s notable how diverse each company’s strategy for success in China has been. Oppo and Vivo have prioritized rural China, setting up a huge network of brick-and-mortar stores that get their devices out to consumers who might not yet have access to the internet. Xiaomi has been and remains dominant in online sales, though those have fallen as a proportion of phone sales in China owing to the faster growth of physical retail. The major resurgence that Xiaomi has enjoyed over this past year has been down to a new strategy of integrating more real-world stores with its already successful online strategy. Huawei has focused primarily on urban China, and it’s reaped the rewards of it as one of the leading brands. Apple, finally, has maintained its status as a premium luxury brand, and its iPhone X debut is likely to boost its numbers in the next quarter, serving as exactly the aspirational product that many young Chinese consumers are looking for.
Urban China remained a bright spot for #Apple, with its share edging up 0.5% in the latest three months to reach 17.4%. Learn more: https://t.co/U0VLcEQMFo pic.twitter.com/97YQzDnwEq


YouTube has just revealed its most popular videos for 2017. The lists are broken down into Top Trending and Top Music, and were compiled based on views, likes, comments, shares, and more, according to YouTube.
The top 10 videos in the trending category were viewed more than 633 million times for over 40 million hours on Google’s video platform. Together they represent a zeitgeist of feel-good escapes that many people found so appealing in 2017. Here's your chance to relive those moments  — or see what all the fuss was about — one last time.
YouTube also revealed its top ten music videos for the year. Luis Fonsi's “Despacito” finally unseated “Gangnam Style’s” five-year reign to become the most-viewed YouTube music video of all time. Notably, six of the top ten music videos this year come from Latin artists.
As Bill Wurtz famously said in YouTube's #8 trending video, "A long time ago, actually never, and also (now), nothing is nowhere. When? Never. Makes sense right?"
Yes, Bill, weirdly it does make sense. As 2017 winds down, that's exactly how I feel.


Amazon has just responded to Google’s decision to remove YouTube from all Fire TV products and the Echo Show. “Google is setting a disappointing precedent by selectively blocking customer access to an open website,” a spokesperson told The Verge by email. “We hope to resolve this with Google as soon as possible.” YouTube is being pulled from the Show effective immediately, and Fire TV owners will lose out on the popular, essential video streaming app on January 1st.
Google says it’s taking this extreme step because of Amazon’s recent delisting of new Nest products (like Nest Secure and the E Thermostat) and the company’s long-running refusal to sell Chromecast or support Google Cast in any capacity.
But regardless of the public stance each company takes over the next few days, it’s their mutual customers who are unfairly getting jerked around. YouTube is a cornerstone of any living room streaming device, and for Google to suddenly decide to strip it from millions of existing Fire TV owners — assuming no agreement is reached by January 1st — is shameful. YouTube is video on the internet. Period. It’s also home to beloved creators, and Google’s decision will soon rob them of viewers.
Kicking the Echo Show to the curb doesn’t impact nearly as many people, but it still stings since watching cooking videos from YouTube on the Alexa screen in your kitchen seemed like one of the perfect uses for the thing! But since Google is being pedantic and needlessly obsessive over every detail of how the app functions on Amazon’s device, that’s no longer possible. This is the second time YouTube has disappeared from the Show. Google said the first iteration had a “broken user experience,” which resulted in a revised version that was basically the full-blown desktop website. That’s not exactly ideal from a usability standpoint.
“Echo Show and Fire TV now display a standard web view of YouTube.com and point customers directly to YouTube’s existing website,” the Amazon spokesperson said. But sources familiar with Google’s position say the company takes issue with Amazon overlaying its own voice controls on top of YouTube. That violates section 4b of YouTube’s terms of service, which reads “you agree not to alter or modify any part of the service.”
THIS IS INSANITY pic.twitter.com/dYbi5w7pdD
Google is dealing Amazon’s devices real damage by withdrawing YouTube, and you could reasonably argue it has the upper hand here. There are people who simply won’t buy a Fire TV as a result of this move, and many existing owners will be displeased come January. Actually, they’re already rather upset since YouTube is displaying a cold, matter-of-fact warning about the cutoff starting today — and gently pushing users towards other devices. If you follow that link, there’s no explanation given as to why a device you paid money for will suddenly be made worse when the calendar hits 2018.
So Google's feud with Amazon just reached my living room. Got this screen when I launched YouTube on my Amazon Fire TV. pic.twitter.com/vtmcuBTtE9
Amazon isn’t without fault either. The company dragged its feet for years in releasing a proper Prime Video app for Android in the Google Play Store. That only happened earlier this year. Previously, you had to install Amazon’s own, separate app store and only then could you install Prime Video. It was a sad, convoluted attempt at luring users to the Amazon Appstore. Even now, Prime Video still doesn’t support Chromecast, as Google points out.
And that’s directly tied to Chromecast’s absence on Amazon.com. Since there’s no easy way of watching Prime Video, Amazon won’t sell it. But it’s Amazon’s own fault that Prime Video doesn’t work with Chromecast. Amazon has the power to make it happen. What’s Google supposed to do in this scenario?
Even to casual observers, Amazon’s decision to remove popular, well-liked products from its store over this spat — or never sell them to begin with — is an ugly example of the company throwing its weight and power around. No one should be surprised that Google is crying foul. Is the company under any obligation to sell Google Home — the chief rival to its own Echo? Of course not. Them’s the breaks. But the Chromecast situation is troubling, and Amazon’s recent halting of sales for certain Nest hardware (with no real explanation) seems juvenile. Prime shipping is still a very powerful incentive, and Amazon is well aware of that.
What frustrates me most is that neither of these companies have bothered to apologize to customers over their squabbling. There’s no “we’re sorry to everyone affected.” On YouTube’s end, it’s just an abrupt, indifferent “Hey, you’re losing YouTube!” message to Fire TV owners. Google says “we hope we can reach an agreement to resolve these issues soon.” Business terms take priority and customers come second. There’s no other way of looking at this or framing it. No one’s fighting for some greater good.
We’re witnessing the worst kind of petty bickering from two tech giants, and consumers are taking the brunt of this escalating feud. If that’s not embarassing enough, the companies are already being mocked by industry groups in favor of dismantling net neutrality. USTelecom wasted little time in piling on. “Broadband ISPs are committed to providing an open internet for their customers, including protections like no content blocking or throttling,” CEO Jonathan Spalter said. “Seems like some of the biggest internet companies can’t say the same. Ironic, isn’t it?” This stubborn conflict is turning into fodder for FCC chairman Ajit Pai’s supporters.
It should never have come to this. Amazon and Google, your options are to make this right, take your grievances to the FTC, or go to court. But don’t take it out on people who just want to enjoy their gadgets. Let people have their YouTube. 2017 has been hard enough to endure already.


Today, Apple started selling an unlocked, SIM-free model of the iPhone X through its website, Apple Store app, and retail locations. The unlocked version of the handset, which starts at $999, was previously only available if you bought it through Verizon or Best Buy, which charged a $100 premium over financed carrier versions of the phone until consumer backlash pushed the retailer to pull the product entirely.
Now, if you find the iPhone X on Apple’s website, you’ll have the option to buy either a GSM or CDMA version of the phone that works with either AT&T and T-Mobile or Verizon and Sprint. The new option, listed under SIM-free, let’s you purchase the iPhone X unlocked, meaning you can freely bring it to any carrier or use it with a prepaid SIM card.
There’s not a huge distinction between the Verizon version of the iPhone X and this new SIM-free one. Verizon has for years sold phones, even Apple’s flagship, unlocked and with the ability to move freely between both GSM and CDMA networks. However, you’ve needed Verizon account credentials to make the purchase. Now, if you happen to swap cell networks a lot on the go, or switch frequently between iOS and Android, the SIM-free version is the most hassle-free version of the iPhone X you can buy and probably what you’ll want.


The Securities and Exchange Commission has frozen the assets of a cryptocurrency startup accused of fraudulently selling up to $15 million in tokens. Yesterday, the SEC announced charges against PlexCorps, an embattled initial coin offering (ICO) company that advertises an ostensibly stable and approachable cryptocurrency called PlexCoin. The complaint alleges that PlexCorps promised massive returns it was unlikely to deliver, while advertising a nonexistent team of experts and obscuring the past financial crimes of its founder Dominic Lacroix.
PlexCorps has already run afoul of Canadian regulators, who ordered it to stop soliciting investment for PlexCoin; Lacroix himself was previously banned from dealing in securities after allegedly defrauding investors in a micro-loan venture. The SEC said this summer that ICOs could fall under US securities rules, and among other things, it claims PlexCorps failed to comply with the relevant registration laws.
More damningly, it also says that PlexCorps enticed investors with “outlandish rewards” of a 1,354 percent profit over the course of under a month. Lacroix and his partner Sabrina Paradis-Royer allegedly misappropriated over $200,000 of the investments for “extravagant personal expenditures.” And the SEC complains that PlexCorps flouted Canadian regulators’ rulings — while selling “a t-shirt with a picture of a man making an offensive gesture” at the name and logo of Quebec’s financial oversight body.
PlexCorps disputed the accusations on Facebook. “We are being depicted as robbers, scammers and fraudsters everywhere in the media. They are smearing our name with some allegations that can sometimes be false or misleading,” it said. “We claim that PlexCoin is not a fraud since no one had their money stolen from us and once more, all purchased PlexCoin were distributed.” The company says it will cooperate with US and Canadian regulators, but “what is now being published in the media goes too far.”
The SEC says that these are the first charges filed by its Cyber Unit, which was created in September to fight online scams and other criminal activity. PlexCoin isn’t the only allegedly scammy ICO it’s gone after, however. This fall, it charged two companies, which claimed to be selling ICO tokens backed by real estate and diamond investments, with fraud.


Earlier today, Qualcomm and Microsoft announced the first Windows 10 devices with ARM-based processors will be arriving early next year. HP, Asus, and Lenovo will all be launching laptops and convertibles with Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 835 processor in them, with prices expected to range from $600 to $800.
Windows 10 on ARM is a reboot of Microsoft’s earlier attempts to marry mobile processors with full laptop experiences. It promises to provide better power efficiencies, reliable performance, and always-on connectivity compared to the x86 Intel-based computers that have existed so far.
Contrary to what you might expect, the new Windows 10 ARM computers don’t look hugely different from their Intel counterparts. They all support standard Windows 10 features, such as a touchscreen, Windows Hello, and pen input. HP Envy X2 looks just like the Spectre X2 detachable already available, while Asus’ NovaGo is a standard laptop that is visually indistinguishable from the rest of its lineup. Both models will launch with Windows 10 S, but can be upgraded to the full Windows 10 experience.
As a result, first impressions from the new devices aren’t hugely different from any other Windows 10 device. ARM computers aren’t noticeably thinner or lighter than others, and though they lack any sort of fans, many newer Intel computers are fanless, as well. The Envy X2 is very similar to many of the Surface Pro types of computers that already exist, while the NovaGo feels just like any other budget to midrange laptop.
On the specs front, the Envy X2 is definitely the more premium-looking of the two models, and has a 12.3-inch 1920 x 1280 pixel display with up to 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage. The NovaGo can be similarly equipped with 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage, but its fixed display is a 13.3-inch 1920 x 1080 pixel panel. The NovaGo’s screen can’t be detached, but it does rotate 360 degrees for tablet mode. The Envy relies entirely on USB Type-C ports for its input and output, while the Asus has full-size USB Type-A ports and an HDMI port.
The real differences with these computers will be felt once we’ve gotten a chance to use these computers in an everyday scenario. Qualcomm boasts battery life of up to 25 hours, plus instant power on and performance that is on par with an Intel computer. It also says that the built-in LTE connectivity will provide significantly faster speeds than other currently available LTE-equipped Windows 10 computers. To see how all of that works, we’ll have to spend more time with these machines.
This first wave of Windows 10 ARM laptops are powered by the Snapdragon 835 processor and have the X16 LTE modem for connectivity. That’s the same setup found in many Android phones released in 2017, including Samsung’s Galaxy S8 and Google’s Pixel 2. Qualcomm says that devices running the just-announced Snapdragon 845 processor and X20 modem will arrive next year.
Qualcomm is hosting its annual conference this week, where we expect to hear more about Snapdragon Windows 10 devices. Stay tuned for more.
Photography by Dan Seifert / The Verge


Anyone who’s interviewed David Lynch knows he doesn’t like to talk about what his work means. In one-on-one conversations, the writer-director (and sculptor, painter, musician, and occasional weatherman) behind the singular movie masterpieces Eraserhead, Blue Velvet, and Mulholland Dr. comes across as affable, even gregarious. He’ll share memories from his past, and happily talk about some of the practical aspects of movie-making, like sound design or running a set. But he stops short of saying anything truly revealing.
If nothing else, Lynch’s reticence gets other people talking. From May to September 2017, cinephiles and telephiles tuned into Showtime to watch Twin Peaks: The Return, the sequel to the groundbreaking ABC drama Lynch and writer Mark Frost created back in 1990. Like the original series, the new Twin Peaks tells a convoluted, often opaque story about horrific crimes, illicit romances, lovable kooks, and the supernatural origins of human evil. And just like back in the early ’90s, fans of the show spent the days between episodes swapping theories about what the heck was actually happening on their TV screens.
A new Blu-ray set titled Twin Peaks: A Limited Event Series contains all 18 hours of the 2017 series, plus nearly eight hours of bonus features. Unlike some past Lynch projects, the Twin Peaks Blu-ray doesn’t add any deleted scenes. That shouldn’t surprise anyone who watched the series, which was filled with the kind of material other directors leave on the cutting-room floor. It does, however, have Lynch’s weird promos for the show, some fairly conventional cast interviews (including the full hourlong panel from this year’s San Diego Comic-Con, moderated by Lost / The Leftovers writer-producer Damon Lindelof), and plenty of behind-the-scenes footage.
The filmmakers’ fans — and even some of his skeptics — should be most interested in the set’s eighth disc, which contains Impressions: A Journey Behind the Scenes of Twin Peaks, 10 half-hour documentaries directed by Lynch’s friend and archivist Jason S. At no point during these mini-docs does Lynch look into the camera and say, “By the way Jason, here’s what actually happened to Cooper and Laura at the end of episode 18.” But watching an artist at work does provide some insights into his art.
Jason S. mostly films the Twin Peaks prep: the set-building, the crew conferences, and the rehearsals. About 80 percent of the time, he holds his camera steady on Lynch’s reactions. Sometimes, the director gets frustrated and even explosively angry, because there’s too much noise, too many people hovering around with questions, or because the process of setting up a shot is dragging on too long. More often, he seems as content as a weekend craftsman, tinkering in his garage.
In one of the Jason S. shorts, called The Number of Completion, Lynch putters between soundstages, checking on the progress of some of the series’s strangest scenes. He drops by a retro radio station, where a character known as “the Woodsman” will soon broadcast a creepy speech. He marvels at the grandeur of an old theater, where another extra-dimensional entity called “the Fireman” will reside. He stops in the Twin Peaks sheriff’s office, where he contemplates a hole in the floor where otherworldly jets of fire are about to erupt. He calls to an assistant, “Bring me a dozen eggs and some creamed corn.” Then he gets down on his knees by the hole, and starts smearing it with yellowish goo.
In another Jason S. film A Bloody Finger in Your Mouth, Lynch is working with actor Laura Dern. First, he guides her exaggerated facial expressions from behind his monitor. Then he stands right next to her with a handful of raw bread dough, molding it around her face. This is Lynch the filmmaker working just like Lynch the sculptor: shaping the image he wants with his actual hands.
Why does this matter? Because thinking about Twin Peaks just as a TV show — or even as an 18-hour movie — doesn’t really explain what Lynch does. He works more like a graphic artist or a poet, intuitively fussing and fiddling and erasing and re-drawing, until he achieves something that was hard to articulate before he started working to bring it into the world.
Let’s be clear: saying “Twin Peaks isn’t just television” doesn’t mean it’s better… only that it’s different. And in some significant ways, it isn’t that different. In the original 1990–91 ABC series, Lynch and Frost borrowed elements from serialized TV, like daytime soaps and police procedurals, and classic Hollywood, like film noir and lurid melodramas. They just used them more for their visual and emotional textures than as a blueprint. The Showtime Twin Peaks takes advantage of the freedom of premium cable to make the violence bloodier and the sexual perversions more explicit. But Lynch and Frost are still chasing a feeling, not hatching a plot.
The Blu-ray featurettes clarify some of what that feeling is. There are moments in the Impressions collection where Lynch’s intensity is downright scary. When he’s advising the actor Christophe Zajac-Denek on how his character Ike “the Spike” should wield his icepick, he snarls and shouts, “Slam that thing in there!” When he’s coaching child actors to make noises as though they’re in pain, he keeps stopping them because they look “too happy.” There’s clearly something angry and ugly within Lynch, which he needed to include in Twin Peaks.
But there’s a sweetness, too. A lot of what’s so fascinating about the Jason S. films is how Lynch can turn on a dime from furious to generous. He snaps that the tight production schedule is robbing him of his chance to experiment (or, as he calls it, “get dreamy”). But when he gets the shot he wants, he’s effusive with praise for his crew.
He’s even kinder to his cast. Before one scene with Grace Zabriskie, he tells her, “I love you so much” right before yelling, “Action!” He inconveniences the entire production to accommodate the few days that Miguel Ferrer is available. He frequently gathers the crew around to give the actors a round of applause on their last day of shooting. All this lends credence to one of the more “meta” critical readings of Twin Peaks: The Return, which is that it’s partly about countering all the meanness in the world by spending time in the company of the people who matter, before everything changes for the worse.
Some of the funniest moments in the Twin Peaks featurettes see both Lynch veterans like Sherilyn Fenn and newcomers like Jim Belushi admitting that they have no idea why he’s asking them to do what they’re doing. Fenn starts to request some clarification on the meaning of one her lines, then stops herself, saying, “I won’t ask you. You won’t tell me.” And when Lynch directs Belushi to pretend that he has no clue what’s going on in a scene, he laughs, “Like real life!” (Laura Dern, on the other hand, immediately realizes that the time on a digital clock in one of her scenes is 2:53 because 2 + 5 + 3 = 10, which is “the number of completion”… and then proudly declares that she knows this because, “I work for David Lynch.”)
In lieu of explanations, Lynch tweaks his actors’ performances right down to the inflections on a single word. He walks them through every broad move and odd gesture, sounding at times like he’s asking them to re-create a dream he had last night.
Watching Lynch making Twin Peaks may irritate viewers who think both he and his show are pretentious and pointless. But it will at least clarify that he’s being true to a vision. At one point, while marveling at the wonder of a set that his team has created, he urges his cinematographer Peter Deming to keep the lighting low, because even though the space is amazing, “The less you see, the better.” For anyone who wants to know what Twin Peaks is about, there’s an answer. It’s about crafting something deliberately, and then obscuring it in shadow.


At Qualcomm’s conference on Tuesday, AMD’s corporate vice president and GM Kevin Lensing made a surprise guest appearance, announcing that the two companies were working together to power a new line of HP and Asus PCs, powered by Snapdragon 835. The Always Connected PCs are powered by gigabit LTE, to stay connected without relying on Wi-Fi.
AMD has had a lot of new releases this year, including the launch of the flagship desktop AMD Ryzen ThreadRipper in the summer and the Ryzen mobile chips with integrated Radeon Vega graphics launched in October. But the partnership with Qualcomm can be seen as the next big move for AMD, and a way for the semiconductor to challenge Intel.
Lensing didn’t give many details on what AMD’s work on the new PCs will entail, but Qualcomm’s conference will last all week, and more information may come out in the coming days.




Like any professional sports league, the upcoming Overwatch League is gearing up to sell plenty of merchandise. But unlike, say, the NFL or NBA, you’ll be able to buy both real-world and virtual versions of each team’s uniform.
Today, Blizzard announced some of the merchandise that it will start selling tomorrow, and it includes the usual suspects, like New Era caps and a range of apparel including league-branded sweaters and jackets. Fans will also be able to support each of the league’s 12 teams by buying the T-shirt-style uniforms players will wear during games.
But, as an e-sports league, Blizzard’s upcoming pro circuit also includes digital uniforms for in-game characters, so that viewers can tell who is shooting at who. Starting early next year, fans will be able to purchase the home-game uniforms (known as skins) of the league’s teams for each of the 26 in-game characters. Players will then be able to use those skins when they play, as a way of showing support for their favorite Overwatch League club.
Blizzard Overwatch already sells a range of different skins in Overwatch, available through loot boxes, and regularly releases new ones around special events like holidays. But the new pro league jerseys work a little bit differently. Blizzard will be introducing a new in-game currency called “league tokens” that can only be used to buy Overwatch League skins. The company says the decision was made so that the profits from purchases can be properly split between the developer and each of the league’s teams. The company will be giving each Overwatch player enough tokens for one free league skin.
Related
The Overwatch League will kick off its first season in January, and it represents an ambitious attempt from Blizzard to meld the worlds of e-sports and traditional sports. It features a city-based structure, with some of the biggest owners from leagues like the NBA and NFL, and offers players contracts with guaranteed salaries, health insurance, and retirement plans. Meanwhile, its roster of clubs is more global than most traditional sports leagues, with teams in Seoul, London, and Shanghai, in addition to the United States.
It’s a big gamble on the mainstream potential of e-sports, and it starts very soon: the Overwatch League pre-season starts tomorrow, while the first proper match will be on January 10th at Blizzard’s new e-sports arena in Los Angeles.


Qualcomm today announced that its next flagship processor will be called the Snapdragon 845, the company said at its Snapdragon Tech Summit. The 845 is a direct successor to last year’s very popular Snapdragon 835, and it will likely bring improved performance, better power efficiency, and improved image processing. The Snapdragon 845 will likely be found in many high-end Android phones in 2018, though it is also expected to make its way to Windows 10 laptops as well.
Last year’s Snapdragon 835 featured a 10nm manufacturing process, and the 845 is expected to be the same. Qualcomm will pair the 845 with its latest X20 LTE modem, which provides gigabit connectivity on supported networks. Qualcomm is hosting its annual conference this week, where we expect to learn more about the Snapdragon 845 and all of its capabilities, so stay tuned for more.



Venture capitalist Shervin Pishevar has taken a leave of absence from Sherpa Capital and Virgin Hyperloop One in the wake of multiple sexual misconduct allegations, saying he plans to focus on pursuing a defamation lawsuit that he filed last month against a political opposition research group. Pishevar says that the decision is meant to “eliminate any potential distraction to the great and important work being done at these companies.”
Pishevar’s lawsuit claims that he was targeted for a “smear campaign” that fabricated false rumors about him, including one that said he had paid to settle a sexual assault accusation in London. Pishevar was indeed detained (but not charged) earlier this year in connection to a sexual assault. Reports by Forbes and Fast Company on the incident, however, also included details from an apparently forged police report. In his statement today, Pishevar says he hopes to “unearth who fabricated the fraudulent London ‘police report,’ and who is responsible for spreading false rumors about me.”
But this wasn’t the only allegation against Pishevar. Bloomberg recently reported that Pishevar had forcibly kissed, groped, or harassed five women, abusing his power as an investor in companies like Uber, where he once served on the board of directors. (Pishevar’s representatives said they were “confident that these anecdotes will be shown to be untrue.”) Two Democratic senators subsequently donated money that Pishevar had given them to charity, and he reportedly faced pressure to resign from the board of Hyperloop One. Pishevar, however, says the leave of absence is something he “came to and proposed on my own accord.” His full statement is below.
As many of you may have seen in recent news coverage, I filed a lawsuit last month against what I believe to be potential perpetrators of a smear campaign against me. As that legal action progresses, it is my priority to ensure that the Sherpa Capital family is not adversely affected.
Therefore, I have decided to take an immediate leave of absence from my duties at Sherpa Capital and Virgin Hyperloop One, as well as my portfolio company board responsibilities, so that I can pursue the prosecution of my lawsuit, where I am confident I will be
vindicated. Through the discovery process, I hope to unearth who fabricated the fraudulent London "police report," and who is responsible for spreading false rumors about me.
This was a decision I came to and proposed on my own accord. It is not one I took lightly and it was a difficult decision that was guided by Sherpa Capital's abiding belief in service and putting others before ourselves.
I care deeply about the incredible teams at Sherpa Capital and our portfolio companies and Virgin Hyperloop One, and hope that my decision to take a leave of absence will eliminate any potential distraction to the great and important work being done at these companies.

Update 8:00AM ET: Added link to Fast Company report on Pishevar’s arrest.


Microsoft and Qualcomm are officially unveiling the first ARM-powered Windows 10 laptops today. As expected, HP, Lenovo, and Asus are the manufacturers creating these new laptops that include a Qualcomm Snapdragon 835 processor. The first devices are similar to 2-in-1 tablet / laptops we’ve seen with Intel-based processors in them, but they differ primarily because of the version of Windows 10 and Qualcomm processor that’s powering them.
Microsoft has previously shown Photoshop running on an ARM version of Windows 10, and the company has developed a special emulator to run traditional x86 apps on these new devices. These devices look and feel like normal laptops, and will run most of the software you’d expect to see on a laptop. HP and Asus are announcing their devices today, and Lenovo is expected to follow in the coming weeks.
The obvious question is why do these devices even exist? Microsoft has worked with Qualcomm to create these “always-on” PCs so that they’re always connected to LTE connections, and work more like an iPad than a traditional Windows laptop. That means you open the laptop up and it should instantly resume, or you close the lid and never have to worry about the battery draining. These devices should have battery benefits and the type of LTE connectivity that we haven’t seen regularly in Windows laptops.
HP and Asus’ devices will include Windows 10 S, designed to only run apps from the Windows Store, but users will be able to upgrade to Windows 10 Pro free of charge (for now) to get access to the full desktop apps. Microsoft has natively compiled Windows 10 to run on ARM chipsets, so all Windows processes, Edge, and the shell all run natively without emulation. Microsoft has also looked at the top third-party desktop applications and natively recompiled a set of system DLLs that they rely on to ensure performance is solid.
Microsoft’s emulation work does mean that you’ll be able to download most 32-bit exe files from the web and install them on ARM-powered laptops. There are a few exceptions, though. 64-bit Windows apps aren’t supported yet (developers will be able to recompile them in the future), and Microsoft isn’t supporting apps that use kernel mode drivers. That means most third-party antivirus software won’t be compatible, and the vast majority of games that use anti-cheat software will also not work correctly.
Everything else should run just fine, including apps like Photoshop, Office, and Chrome. Performance is obviously still the big question around these devices vs. Intel-based ones, but the idea is that all-day battery life and not having to charge your device regularly might make up for a slight hit to performance. The first devices should run for around 20–22 hours of active use, but if those estimates are anything like what we see with Intel-based laptops then the reality could be a lot less. We’ll be testing them heavily to find out.
There are obvious concerns around Microsoft and Qualcomm’s ARM on Windows efforts. We’ve seen similar promises of the “connected mobile PC” before, and they’ve flopped. Microsoft worked with Nvidia to produce Windows RT tablets five years ago, but the performance and battery life claims never lived up to reality and the operating system didn’t run traditional desktop applications. It was a mess that looked like a bad engineering project, rather than an operating system for consumers, students, and businesses.
Microsoft isn’t working with Nvidia yet on this new effort, and the company won’t say if it plans to in the future. Either way, it’s clear from the emulation software that Microsoft has learned some valuable lessons from the Windows RT disaster. These new laptops look like any regular device you’d see in a retail store today, and they’re designed to be thinner and lighter while improving battery life and maintaining app compatibility. They don’t include the typical fans you’d find in a laptop, so they’ll also be silent to use.
Asus’ NovaGo 2-in-1 includes a 13.3-inch HD display, up to 8GB of RAM, and up to 256GB of storage. There’s even stylus support, and two USB 3.1 ports, a HDMI port, and a microSD reader. Asus’ NovaGo will be priced starting at $599 for 4GB of RAM and 64GB of storage. A $799 model will include 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage. HP’s Envy x2 is a slightly smaller 2-in-1 with a 12.3-inch display, up to 8GB of RAM, and up to 256GB of storage. HP’s device also supports a stylus, and both of these will come with LTE connectivity. That should be something we’ll see on most, if not all, ARM-powered Windows 10 laptops, enabling connectivity away from Wi-Fi hot spots. HP’s Envy x2 will be available in Spring next year.
These first devices lay the foundations for the future of what’s to come from this new Windows 10 on ARM effort. We could see tablets, and more hybrid devices running on this new software. One thing we’re unlikely to see is phone hybrids for now, as Microsoft tells me the current wave of devices doesn’t support a telephony stack.
If the battery life and performance live up to Microsoft and Qualcomm’s claims, then it could be an exciting upcoming year for Windows laptops. Microsoft is also rumored to be creating its own special notepad-like device with an ARM chipset, and if the company goes ahead with it then we’ll likely see it appear next year. For now, we’ll have a closer look at the new ARM-based Windows laptops and performance shortly from Qualcomm’s Snapdragon summit, so stay tuned to The Verge.


If you’ve been on the internet recently you might have come across the above tweet, showing a robot with a CCTV camera for a head doing some half-hearted pole-dancing. It’s a good tweet! It captures a bunch of extremely 2017 feelings, including dystopia, fear of job automation, and the general mood of absurdity that’s going around a lot. Plus, you know, it’s a pole-dancing robot.
But, as a famous philosopher once asked: why is this robot pole dancing? To what end? Well it turns out it’s art, but there’s a bit more to it than that.
The robot is actually the creation of UK artist Giles Walker, who made the bot back in 2008. There are actually two pole-dancing robots, and a third companion that’s supposed to be DJ-ing. (It has a megaphone for a head instead of a camera.) But, as Walker explains to The Verge, the bots aren’t really supposed to be a commentary on robotics or job automation. They’re about surveillance.
“At the time [when I made them], they were putting CCTV cameras up all around London, and Britain was becoming the most surveilled society in the world,” says Walker. “So I was playing with this idea of voyeurism, and who has the power in that relationship; whether it’s the voyeur or the person being watched.”
He adds that there was a lot of discussion in the news at the time about the “sexed up” Iraq dossier — a document published by the British government examining the existence of WMDs in Iraq, which a source later said had been exaggerated. “So I was just playing with the idea that if a document could be sexed up, maybe CCTV cameras could be as well,” says Walker. “That’s how I got to these mechanical peeping toms. It was a mingling of all those things.”
Since their creation, the robots have taken on a life of their own. Pictures and videos of them resurface online every now and again, and Walker hires them out to tech conferences, festivals, and other events. (They cost around £1,000 a day or $1,343.) And although they look straight out of a sci-fi B-movie, the bots aren’t technologically complex. They’re made from shop mannequins and are powered by windscreen wiper motors, with their movements controlled by short, pre-defined loops. “At that time I built all my stuff out of scrap and found objects,” says Walker. “So not much tech in there. It’s really old school.”
Walker’s other projects include Breakdown Clown (an animatronic sculpture that monologues while its speech patterns slowly degenerate); The Last Supper (a group of 13 sculptures that talk, argue, and smoke around a table); and a series of “homeless” robot sculptures placed in cities as guerrilla art.
As pieces of art that might show up at a tech conference, though, the pole-dancing robots feel dated in 2017. The tech industry is only just beginning to come to terms with its long history of ingrained sexism and discrimination, and some people might see sexualized robots at a tech fair as an example of the bro culture that has, in part, contributed to these problems.
Walker didn’t create the robots with these issues in mind, but says he’d think twice before making them again. He says the rise of “sexbots” particularly has given the sculptures new connotations. “These are meant to be a play on voyeurism, but because of the sexbot thing they’ve taken on a slightly menacing touch,” he says. Despite that, though, they’re still touring, and Walker has no plans to stop. “They’re the most popular thing I’ve done,” he says. “Like a sort of Christmas jingle. They’ve become iconic.”


Three months ago, YouTube pulled its programming from Amazon’s Echo Show device — the first skirmish in what is apparently an ongoing war. Shortly after, Amazon stopped selling the Nest E Thermostat, Nest’s Camera IQ, and the Nest Secure alarm system. Two weeks ago, Amazon got YouTube back on the Echo Show by simply directing users to the web version, a workaround that left a lot to be desired. But even that version won’t be available after today.
In a statement this afternoon, a YouTube spokesperson announced that the company was withdrawing support for its service on both the Echo Show and, more importantly, Amazon’s Fire TV:
“​We’ve been trying to reach agreement with Amazon to give consumers access to each other's products and services. But Amazon doesn't carry Google products like Chromecast and Google Home, doesn't make Prime Video available for Google Cast users, and last month stopped selling some of Nest's latest products. Given this lack of reciprocity, we are no longer supporting YouTube on Echo Show and FireTV. We hope we can reach an agreement to resolve these issues soon.”
YouTube will be pulled from the Echo Show today. Customers who own an Fire TV will start seeing a notification today warning them that the service will be unavailable as of January 1st, 2018. Perhaps Google is hoping that the threat of losing YouTube on its main streaming device will force Amazon to negotiate a truce both sides can live with before the new year.
For bonus points, try asking Alexa to order you a Chromecast and see how she responds. I was offered a Fire TV stick, then a Roku, before she ran out of options.


Getting stranded during a spacewalk is a terrifying scenario for any astronaut to imagine — but what if space station crew members could simply press a button during such an event and be immediately transported back to safety?
That’s the idea behind new technology in development dubbed the “Take Me Home” button. It’s a complex system of hardware and software that could be incorporated into a space suit and can automatically guide an astronaut home during an emergency in space. The concept is currently being developed with partial NASA funding at Draper, an engineering company with a long history of creating technologies for crewed spaceflight.
Right now, NASA astronauts on board the ISS already have numerous redundancies in place during spacewalks to keep them safe. For one, they stay tethered to the space station at all times when they’re outside in their space suits. But in the unlikely event of a disconnection, astronauts also wear a jet backpack known as SAFER that they can use to guide themselves back to the space station. SAFER is equipped with very small thrusters that expel gas and propel an astronaut in the direction he or she wants to go. However, astronauts have to manually control SAFER using a box attached to their suit, which can be difficult if they become disoriented during an emergency. Plus, getting skilled at using the system requires a lot of hours of training in virtual reality on the ground first.
“You see how difficult it is to complete those operations and how much time it takes to become proficient at it,” Kevin Duda, a space systems engineer at Draper who has been developing the “Take Me Home” button, tells The Verge. “That kind of motivated us to think about how do you do that from an automatic perspective.”
The “Take Me Home” button would basically get rid of the need for that SAFER control box. Instead, astronauts would be able to press a button on their suit to activate the system, or it could be activated remotely by astronauts on board the station, in case they see a fellow crew member in distress during a spacewalk. Such a system could be useful in case an astronaut becomes disconnected or if a crew member’s space suit starts to malfunction, like when an Italian astronaut nearly drowned in 2013 after his helmet filled with water.
Developing such an automatic return system has been no easy task, though. The biggest hurdle has been to create a navigation system for a space suit, which doesn’t exist at the moment. That’s been tricky since it’s hard to pinpoint exactly where a person is in space. Duda says he’s come up with a navigation system that incorporates a high-resolution camera to distinguish landmarks around an astronauts, as well as a unit that can measure how a person is moving through space. The system could also use a star tracker to figure out an astronaut’s position in relation to the stars in the sky. Plus, even in lower Earth orbit, it’s possible to get GPS signals from satellites that could be utilized as well.
Beyond a navigation system, Duda says the “Take Me Home” button also needs a guidance system, which tells the space suit where it needs to go. Most likely, astronauts experiencing an emergency will want to return to an airlock to get back inside the space station as quickly as possible. Draper has been developing an algorithm that can help compute the best path for an astronaut to get back to safety, without running into anything dangerous. The system could then use the small thrusters on the SAFER backpack to propel a distressed astronaut in the right direction.
Draper has filed a patent for the automatic-return system and the company has demonstrated how the technology might work in simulations. But in order to fully build a functioning system, Duda says they need a long-term funding from NASA. “The technology we believe is there to package into a solution,” says Duda. “It’s just a matter of commitment from the customer to make this a reality.”
But if Draper does get funding, the company argues this technology could be applied to more things than just space. An automatic return system could be useful for scuba divers, for instance, who need to return to safety, or a version of the system could be useful for firefighters, in order to compute the best route to follow to get out of a dangerous building. “There are applications that can have just as big an impact on Earth as they do for astronauts,” says Duda.



Google has updated search in three ways over the past few weeks, and today, the company explained how these new features encourage users to fall further down a search hole. All three updates let users expand their search beyond the information they originally intended to find.
"Knowledge panels" now show related content, so if you search for skiing, you'll also be able to jump to a search about other snow-related sports, like snowboarding, or a more focused skiing search, like "ski jumping." You can see an example here:
Meanwhile, "featured snippets," which already give users a snapshot of whatever they're searching, will include more images along with related searches. These are algorithmically determined, Google says.
These are the new featured snippets:
Finally, Google is proving additional search suggestions, similar to knowledge panels, but it seems Google will automatically deduce the topic you're researching based off back-to-back searches. So if you look up two individual soccer players, you'll then see other related athletes.
I can't wait for us all to fall so deep down a Google search hole that we forgot what we initially wanted to look up.


If there’s one hormone most people know by name, it’s oxytocin (not to be confused with the opioid oxycontin) — the so-called “love hormone” that we’re told creates maternal love, better relationships, and all that is warm and fuzzy and good. Scientists have created an artificial version that lasts longer and is less likely to have negative health effects, but these fixes might not be the solution to the chemical’s biggest problems.
Oxytocin is released during lactation and orgasms, and one widely cited (though later challenged) study suggested that whiff of the chemical can increase trust in a money-sharing game. It follows, then, that researchers think the hormone shows promise as treatment for social anxiety, autism, and borderline personality disorder. Because oxytocin is known for having negative cardiovascular effects like increased heart rate and blood pressure, researchers created a synthetic hormone that re-created its positive results but didn’t seem to affect the heart. (The results were published today in the journal Science Signaling.) Still, before we rush to administer this synthetic hormone, it’s important to remember all the other side effects the chemical can cause.
The scientists in today’s study engineered a tweaked version of oxytocin that’s more stable than the real thing, meaning it lasts longer, and tested it several ways. Synthetic oxytocin given to human uterine cells caused the cells to contract, just like the natural hormone is supposed to do. Rats treated with synthetic oxytocin after being taught to be afraid of a stimuli were less afraid than the untreated rats. And synthetic oxytocin didn’t have any effects on human heart cells, though the natural hormone did, suggesting that in a working human heart, the synthetic stuff might not cause the same complications.
Creating an artificial version of the hormone can help us better understand the original hormone and how it works, though it’s still unclear what the synthetic stuff would do in actual humans. But the authors aren’t doing this just to help us understand oxytocin. They think their hormone has promise for treating social problems, and this application still plays into the hype around oxytocin. As science journalist Ed Yong writes, the hype can be dangerous.
There’s been skepticism over whether oxytocin really creates trust. A lot of the research promoting its benefits isn’t solid as breathless media reports would suggest; oxytocin probably can’t keep your spouse from cheating, for example. In one study, people who sniffed oxytocin became less cooperative in a game if they were playing with strangers. The chemical that facilitates the mother-child bond might also make us more bigoted against people who aren’t like us and has been linked to increased envy and gloating. No word on whether the synthetic version of the hormone can avoid these side effects.
This isn’t to say that we shouldn’t do research on oxytocin, or that its positive effects are all false. It could well be that the benefits of any potential treatment would outweigh the downsides in certain cases. But before we get there, we need more rigorous research on how oxytocin works overall, not just any optimistic evaluation of the upsides.




Honor today officially unveiled two new phones, including its latest flagship device, the Honor View 10. The Huawei sub-company says the phone uses an AI processor that can recognize different scenes to take better photos, optimize the phone's system, and improve ease of use. The V10 comes with a Full HD 6-inch display on a 18:9 screen, a dual-lens camera (at 16MP and 20MP), 6GB of RAM, a 13MP front-facing camera, fast charging, and a new EMUI based on Android 8. The phone also can be charged up to 50 percent in 30 minutes. Most notably, however, the V10 has what's called a 3D Facial Animation feature, which is a carbon copy of Apple's Animoji that tracks your face and transposes that onto an animal character. "We want to be friends with the young people," said Honor president George Zhao at the product launch in London.
Honor is really emphasizing the AI capabilities of its device with the Kirin 970 chip, and the phone features facial unlocking, intelligent display rotation (so the phone doesn’t change orientation if you’re using it in bed for example), and an intelligent notifications lock. There's also a function for users to take a photo of a sign in another language, which can be translated to English — a similar function to Google Lens.
The V10 comes in navy blue or midnight black, and is available globally starting on January 8th for £449.99 (around $605).
In addition to the View 10, Honor also announced the more affordable Honor 7X, which has a 5.93-inch screen with an 18:9 ratio and an edge-to-edge screen. It features a dual-lens 16MP and 2MP rear camera, and an autofocus rate of 0.18 seconds. It also comes with 4GB of RAM and a 3,340mAh battery that should last more than one day on a single charge, the company says. The 7X is £269.99 (around $365) and available now.
Photography by Thuy Ong / The Verge



The subscription ticketing service MoviePass has been steadily lowering its prices to entice customers, and now theater chain Cinemark is striking back with its own subscription club. Dubbed Cinemark Movie Club, the service uses a decidedly different approach than Moviepass’ all-you-can-eat style. It’s more of a rewards program that comes with a ticket price lock-in. Members pay $8.99 per month, which provides them with one 2D movie ticket anytime they want, and lets them buy any additional tickets at $8.99 throughout the month.
That doesn’t sound remotely close to the value of MoviePass, which grants members one movie ticket per day for a $9.95 per month flat fee. But Cinemark is clearly hoping to compete when it comes to flexibility. Movie Club customers will be able to upgrade their tickets to formats like 3D; Cinemark’s own in-house premium-screen format, XD; or screenings with D-Box motion simulator chairs. (MoviePass customers only have access to 2D screenings.) Members can also buy tickets in advance — another leg up on MoviePass, which requires audiences to buy at the theater — and will receive a 20 percent discount on concessions. If members don’t use their free ticket in a given month, it will simply roll over, the same way unused minutes work on some smartphone plans.
Formats like Cinemark XD or the chain’s motion-simulator screenings are arguably gimmicks rather than upgrades, especially when compared to competing options like IMAX Laser or the Dolby Vision-powered AMC Prime. And the relative value of high-end presentation formats as a whole is another conversation entirely. But even outside of those options, Movie Club does represent a discount. In Cinemark’s theater in downtown Los Angeles, a Friday-night screening of Justice League in 2D is priced at $13. Factor in two tickets at Movie Club prices, and the discount on what would normally be a $40 purchase of drinks, popcorn, and candy, and a night out at the movies goes from $66 to $52. With just a single MoviePass subscriber in the party, the same night would cost $63.
That’s the trick with MoviePass: It’s most valuable to audience members who are content with entry-level screening options and the luck of the draw at the box office, especially if they live in major cities, where ticket prices tend to be higher than MoviePass' monthly fee. Theater chains, on the other hand, look to premium-format screens as a way to differentiate themselves from at-home viewing at a time when theatrical attendance has grown stagnant. Given that dynamic — and the tremendous waves of press that MoviePass’ increasingly cheaper prices continue to generate — it makes sense for chains like Cinemark to roll out their own options to encourage attendance at the screens they see as most vital to the future of their business.


It’s well-established that talent is in short supply in the AI industry, but a new report from Chinese tech giant Tencent underscores how great the need might be. According to the study, compiled by the Tencent Research Institute, there are just 300,000 “AI researchers and practitioners” worldwide, but the “market demand” is for millions of roles.
These are unavoidably speculative figures, and the study does not offer much detail on how they were reached, but as a general trend they fit with other, more anecdotal reports. Around the world, tech giants regularly complain about the difficulty hiring AI engineers, and the demand has pushed salaries to absurd heights. Individuals with just a few year’s experience can expect base pay of between $300,000 and $500,000 a year, says The New York Times, while the very best will collect millions. One independent AI lab told the publication that there were only 10,000 individuals worldwide with the right skills to spearhead serious new AI projects.
Tencent’s new “2017 Global AI Talent White Paper” suggests the bottleneck here is education. It estimates that 200,000 of the 300,000 active researchers are already employed in various industries (not just tech), while the remaining 100,000 are still studying. Attendance in machine learning and AI courses has skyrocketed in recent years, as has enrollment in online courses, but there is obviously a lag as individuals complete their education.
Interestingly, as well as estimating the industry’s shortfall in talent, the report also speculates about the global competition to develop and deploy it. This has become a popular topic in recent months with policy wonks, with experts in the US warning that America is falling behind rivals like China in the so-called global AI race.
The report itself identifies the US, China, Japan, and UK as key players, with Israel and Canada also warranting mentions. Canada, it says, has strong educational background (which has attracted many big companies to launch research labs there), while the UK is best on the “ethical and legal aspects” of AI, and Japan takes the lead in robotics.
But it’s the US, says the report, that’s currently “far ahead” in terms of global talent, with more universities teaching machine learning and related subjects than any other nation, and more AI startups. (The report estimates that America is home to more than 1,000 of the world’s total of 2,600, while China has nearly 600.) The report doesn’t go so far as to make any predictions about which nation will end up on top in the coming decades, but cites the Chinese government’s stated policy ambition of becoming a world leader in AI by 2030 — a goal that many think is achievable.


In 1998, as the internet began to spread across the country, Congress passed the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA. Among the act’s most consequential provisions was a rule that children under the age of 13 could not give out their personal information without a parent’s permission. Because of the cost of complying with that law, most internet companies have simply forbidden anyone younger than 13 from signing up.
But in practice, a decent number of children under 13 wind up using online services anyway. And if you work at a big, rich social network whose existence is regularly threatened by the emergence of new networks popular with such humans, all those under-13s may begin to look like an army waiting to attack. If you don’t grab those 6-year-old eyeballs, someone else surely will.
And so here’s Messenger Kids, a new chat app for 6- to 12-year-olds that will soon arrive in the iOS App Store. As my colleague Nick Statt wrote yesterday, Messenger Kids offers video and text chat to children, plus controls to restrict who they can talk to. As you would find elsewhere, the app will have plenty of masks, filters, GIFs, stickers, and other shiny objects.
Facebook presented Messenger Kids as a gift to parents, whose children might otherwise sends messages on harder-to-monitor platforms:
Kids told us that the primary reason they want to use social media and messaging platforms is to have fun, which means that an environment that emphasizes safety at the expense of joy and laughter will fail the customer satisfaction test — and potentially leave kids vulnerable to less controlled and more risky social environments. We believe that it’s possible to give kids a fun experience that provides more peace of mind for parents, too.
What are these risky social environments? On Twitter, I asked parents what messaging services their young children used most often. Common replies included services from Apple (iMessage, FaceTime) and Google (Hangouts). Many parents told me their children were indeed using messaging apps from the age of 6. It’s easy to see how Facebook would look at the competitive landscape and conclude that a large market for kids’ messaging apps already exists, and that it would be unwise for the company not to participate.
And yet Messenger Kids gives me pause. Not once in the blog posts it wrote or the interviews it granted did Facebook executives describe the business purpose of Messenger Kids. It did not say how it would monetize the app, other than to say it would not include ads. It did not describe whether parents would have access to any of the data being gathered about their families, or how that data might be used.
A child can use an iMessage account and share very little data about herself with Apple. The same holds true for Hangouts. In many cases, children are using their parents’ accounts, obscuring the data further.
On Messenger Kids, a parent creates an account for a child, establishes a familial relationship within the app, and then begins building their child’s social graph by adding contacts. Notably, the parent is asked to provide their child’s real name. Facebook says it has no plans to turn these shadow accounts into full-fledged Facebook profiles. And yet the data it collects could be useful for ad targeting elsewhere on the service. And should Facebook amass hundreds of millions of underage users, the company will have every incentive to offer one-click exporting of these accounts to real ones on the day the child turns 13.
It didn’t have to be this way. Facebook asks parents to provide their children’s real names, when they could just as easily have asked the parent to pick a nickname, or a symbol, or a picture of a cartoon bear. It could have let parents create a “guest” account inside their profiles with restricted access to their contacts. Instead it acted true to its roots — as a company that maps out the connections between people at the highest resolution possible. (A spokeswoman tells me that in a departure from the company’s official policy, parents are “encouraged” but not required to use their child’s real names.)
Apple and Google profit off children in their own ways, of course, largely through the sale of hardware to their schools. And yet that feels, to me at least, like a fairer trade. Those companies make tools that help children learn. Facebook can only offer a version of the text and video chat they would find elsewhere. But its pitch relies first upon scaring parents — your kids are going to text anyway, they tell us, and there might might be a child predator on the other end of the line:
We also heard some scary things, like a mom who found the online chat her 7 year-old had while playing a video game with an adult male stranger. It began with seemingly friendly questions about her son’s favorite sports teams but slowly led to questions about what he looked like, before finally pushing the boy to send a photo of himself. She was terrified.
Facebook argues that it has uniquely good intentions here, and that its app was built only after thousands of conversations with parents and a blue-ribbon panel of child development experts. (The National PTA is invoked in its blog post, trailed by a disclaimer that the National PTA does not actually endorse any commercial products.) In its pitch to kids to use the app, it reminds me of the mother in Mean Girls: “If you’re gonna drink, I’d rather you do it at the house.”
A key lesson of the past year is that our usage of social media often has unintended consequences, and that those consequences often turn out to be negative. Facebook scarcely has a handle on the way its users are employing private messaging tools to spread misinformation here and abroad — and now it is turning over those tools, dressed up in primary colors, to children.
Facebook’s success has long derived from its willingness to find the limits of our comfort around sharing, and then push right past them. Viewed in that light, building a pipeline of 6-year-old users in the name of protecting them from child predators is part of a long tradition.
And yet at a time when I’m still struggling to understand how social media is altering my own mind, I’m hesitant to recommend it to children. The benefits of Messenger Kids to Facebook are too obvious, and too little acknowledged by its creators. And the benefits to children all but elude me.
Sign up for The Interface


Netflix announced today that the company will write actor Danny Masterson out of its original series The Ranch, following allegations from multiple women who say Masterson raped them in the early 2000s. A Netflix statement says Monday was Masterson’s last day on set, and that the comedy series will continue in 2018 without him.
The announcement comes one day after the Huffington Post reported that one of Masterson’s alleged victims approached Netflix executive Andy Yeatman at a children’s soccer game in Los Angeles this weekend and asked why Netflix hadn’t responded to the allegations against Masterson. Yeatman, Netflix’s director of global kids’ content, reportedly responded, “We don’t believe them.” Yeatman later reportedly said he wasn’t in a position to make any decisions about Masterson.
After discussing with the producers, we've decided to write Danny Masterson off of The Ranch. Yesterday was his last day of work, and we'll make new episodes in 2018 without him.
At least four women have accused Masterson of raping them in the early 2000s. Masterson has been under investigation by the Los Angeles Police Department for about a year, according to the Huffington Post, but the case has stalled, apparently in large part due to Masterson’s Scientology affiliation. The Huffington Post reports that after one of Masterson’s accusers filed a police report in 2004 saying that Masterson raped her while she was “passed out,” “the Church of Scientology intervened and submitted more than 50 affidavits from Scientologists who denied the woman’s account.”
Back in March, journalist Tony Ortega broke the story that Masterson was being investigated by the LAPD for “at least three alleged cases of rape or sodomy of women who were also Scientologists and who claim they were pressured by the Church of Scientology not to contact police or go public with their accusations.”
A law enforcement agent reportedly told Huffington Post reporter Yashar Ali that evidence against Masterson was “overwhelming,” but the case was slow to move forward in the Los Angeles district attorney’s office.
Masterson, who is probably best known for playing Steven Hyde on That 70’s Show, has denied the allegations.
Ten episodes of The Ranch’s second season, which Masterson executive produces along with Ashton Kutcher, are set to land on Netflix on December 15th. A Netflix spokesperson told The Daily Beast that Masterson would still appear in those episodes, plus several season 3 episodes set to premiere in 2018. The streaming service hasn’t commented on whether Masterson will remain an executive producer on the series.
Last month, Netflix fired Kevin Spacey from House of Cards and canceled a Gore Vidal biopic starring Spacey following allegations of sexual assault and harassment. The company also quickly cut ties with Louis CK after the comedian admitted to accusations of sexual misconduct. Netflix has been slower to react to accusations against Masterson, which have been public for months.
The Verge has reached out to Netflix for comment and will update with any new information.




Microsoft first unveiled its Whiteboard app earlier this year, promising to make it available to all Surface devices by the end of 2017. Microsoft is releasing a preview version of Whiteboard today to all Windows 10 devices, allowing multiple people to share and collaborate using digital ink.
The app lets Windows 10 users ink on images, create mockups, or use notes on a virtual whiteboard. Anyone can use the app, but the collaborative multi-party support will require someone in the group to have an active Office 365 subscription. The new Whiteboard app includes collaborative inking, geometry recognition, table conversion, and automatic table shading. It’s really designed to let people share ink across multiple devices, and any work will be automatically saved to separate boards.
Microsoft is rolling this test app out to English Windows 10 editions today, with plans to support additional languages in the coming months. The Whiteboard app for Windows 10 will be available in the Windows Store shortly.


Every day seems to bring a new headline about sexual harassment. It’s crucial to talk about how commonplace this abuse is, but it’s becoming more difficult to do so without becoming exhausted or desensitized. It’s what makes Saturday Night Live’s recent exploration of harassment — a visually soft, musical number from Cecily Strong, Kate McKinnon, Aidy Bryant, Leslie Jones, and Melissa Villaseñor, with guest Saoirse Ronan — feel like a warm shower after a roll through the mud.
Over the weekend, SNL debuted a catchy pop culture parody tackling the unending wave of sexual harassment allegations. This movement seems to have started with Harvey Weinstein, but the ripple has traveled far beyond Hollywood, and into industries and locations across the world. As the song title aptly puts it, “Welcome to Hell.”
Musical comedy is nothing new for SNL, and the show has touched on feminist issues in group parodies before. But the biting juxtaposition of bubblegum pop and sexual harassment feels more like an outtake from the CW show Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, which regularly uses musical comedy to deconstruct thorny subjects like mental health and sexism. “Welcome to Hell” is a dead ringer for Crazy Ex-Girlfriend’s man-hating anthem “Let’s Generalize About Men,” where series co-creator Rachel Bloom and company examine the pitfalls of the male population — and mock the way women talk about them.
Crazy Ex-Girlfriend built its reputation on this sort of egalitarian satire, where its frustrated female characters declare that all men are emotionally stunted children while simultaneously acknowledging that this is absurd hyperbole. (“There are no exceptions / All 3 billion men are like this / All 3.6 billion men.”) It plays on stereotypes from both sides: the women engaging in their proclaimed “primal ritual” of drinking and complaining, the men putting up a tiresome cry of “not all men.” The SNL song, on the other hand, represents a more literal case of ideologies clashing. Its staff can write and perform songs about harassment, but the show has also invited notorious abusers like Casey Affleck to host. (Louis CK has hosted the show four times.)
“Welcome to Hell” is parody, but only in how it chooses to deliver its information. Dressed in pink or pastel and sporting sweetheart looks, these performers do their best bubblegum pop impression while addressing a harsh reality: harassment has always been part of women’s lives. “Oh, this been the damn world,” Strong sings of the recent headlines. Jones pops in to say, “But you do know that it’s like a million times worse for a woman of color, right?” The short even demonstrates some self-defense tactics women are taught: McKinnon holding her keys between her fingers to thwart would-be attackers, or Strong demonstrating acting so crazy, would-be molesters will decide she’s “not worth the trouble.”
The grief people may feel over House of Cards being “ruined” after Kevin Spacey was fired, or whatever surprise they may experience at learning how widespread harassment is, pales in comparison to the frustration that acts as the song’s throughline. Why didn’t women say something? “Well, we definitely did,” Ronan says. “For hundreds of years.” It’s the understatement of the century.







This week, Lamborghini unveiled its all-new Urus super-SUV. This outrageously fast, 650-horsepower, $200,000 off-roading four-door is not the first sport utility vehicle from the famed Italian exotic automaker. That was the Hummer-esque, Countach-powered LM002 of the ‘80s and ‘90s. But that was a long time ago, well before a desire for high-riding vehicles — trucks, sport utes, and crossovers — transitioned from a niche market to a common one to one that has surpassed passenger cars to become the most popular automotive category. (It’s now responsible for two-thirds of all American automotive sales.)
It was also well before a brand like Bentley — another boutique automaker that is, like Lamborghini, part of the VW Group conglomerate — decided that there was room in the marketplace for an SUV that was capable of supercar acceleration, supercar top speeds, and supercar pricing. The brand’s Bentayga SUV, released in the second half of last year, accelerates from 0–60 mph faster than a Chevrolet Corvette, reaches a top speed of 187 mph, and hosts a starting price of $230,000.
Bentley produced the Bentayga because research showed that a great majority of Bentley owners also had a high-end SUV in their fleet. If the brand could gain even an incremental portion of this significant business, it was thought that it could not only organically grow its footprint and offerings, but become more stable and profitable.
This same thought also occurred to Bentley’s cohorts atop the vehicular pyramid. Since its release in summer of 2016, Bentley has pretty much had the ultra luxury SUV market nearly to itself. However, in the next year or so, we will see the release of similarly priced vehicles from brands like Lamborghini (Urus), Aston Martin (DBX), Rolls-Royce (Cullinan), Mercedes-Benz (all-new G-Wagen, Maybach GLS), and even Ferrari (unnamed FUV).
“It’s no surprise to see the ultra premium brands jump onto the crossover brandwagon,” says managing analyst Michael Harley of KBB. “As long as the prestigious badge is on the hood and driving dynamics are tuned to align with the brand’s reputation.”
According to marketing presentations, each of these vehicles is projected by their manufacturer to behave in much the same way as the Bentayga in the global marketplace: to drastically increase or even double brand sales.
But is there buyer bandwidth to accept this expansion? The global ultra luxury car market definitely grew last year by more than 15 percent (to around 28,000 units), fueled mainly by the capricious Chinese market, where demand for very high-end vehicles grew by a whopping 54 percent. Projections remain strong for this segment in 2017 as well. But adding all of these vehicles would mean half as many vehicles again — or more.
“The appetite for ultra luxury SUVs, especially in China, means that if you're not in the segment very soon, you may likely be left behind,” says Dave Sullivan, manager of product analysis with automotive industry research firm AutoPacific. “When the next downturn hits, or if something sends a hiccup through the Chinese economy, the brands without an SUV could see trouble on the horizon.”
But while Bentley reports that it is selling every Bentayga that it can manufacture, the American market demonstrates the glimmerings of saturation. With 10 months on sale thus far this year, Bentayga sales have not matched the number of vehicles sold in just five months in 2016. Though sales may gain strength in the typically strong months of November and December, the increase in sales is not likely to be significant.
“While Bentley has seen its sales numbers level on the Bentayga, the vehicle is currently making up about half of the automaker’s sales,” says KBB’s Harley.
The larger issue is what is happening for the Bentley brand overall in the States. Despite the introduction of Bentayga in August 2016, and a robust overall market hosting the highest annual vehicle sales numbers in American history, overall Bentley sales fell in 2016. Again, while the year-end segment is often strong, at current rates, sales are on target to be down again in 2017. So sales are not doubling here. They’re declining.
If we look at the other offerings in the brand’s portfolio, it is easy to see why: sales of the formerly best-selling Continental coupe and convertible have fallen by nearly 11 percent. Perhaps more importantly, sales of the Flying Spur and Mulsanne sedans are down by more than 40 percent each. Could it be that the Bentayga SUV is, instead of supplementing sales of Bentley vehicles, cannibalizing sales from traditional Bentleys? Granted, the cars in Bentley’s stable are at the end of their life cycle and will soon see replacement, which may invigorate transactions. But as the entire vehicle market flees from cars for crossovers and SUVs, might the decline in sedan sales be more permanent?
“The four-door sedan segment in particular is under pressure,” says Jeff Kuhlman, chief communications officer for Bentley of the Americas. “I don’t think it’s cannibalization, but the sedan segment is down throughout the industry — with BMW 7-Series, with Audi A8, with Mercedes-Maybach and AMG. Both Bentayga and Flying Spur have a place in our portfolio and in the marketplace, but, yes we will see some rationalization in the market.”
If this is the case, it seems that brands like Rolls-Royce should be nervous about such an addition to their portfolio. With its equivalent luxury, and the enhanced practicality and functionality of a larger cargo area and high seating position, a Rolls customer may choose purchase the forthcoming $500,000 Cullinan instead of, as opposed to in addition to, a $500,000 Phantom sedan. This may be especially salient since the SUV will share its underpinnings, styling, and likely much of its rich and exclusive interior appointments with the new four door.
And will the same hold true for other brands? Ferrari currently makes an all-wheel drive four-seater in its GTC4Lusso hatchback grand tourer. Aston currently makes a four-seater in its Rapide, Could these vehicles suffer a similar fate in seeing their share devoured by a crossover / SUV? Because Lamborghini does not currently produce any large cars or sedans that compete directly with their crossover / SUV, producing only sport and super sport cars, is it possible that the brand may potentially fare better with its Urus?
“I think for Rolls-Royce it will do quite well because it will be in a class by itself. But each of these brands and offerings is fairly unique. It’s hard to stereotype the entire ultra luxury segment,” says Sullivan. “We're seen more diversification in the ultra luxury segment than ever before. There will still be room for coupes and sedans, but seekers of prestige now demand a SUV.”
He goes on to proclaim a kind of automotive brinksmanship-cum-mutually assured destruction. “Of course, there is risk of cannibalization of the rest of the lineups for each automaker. But there's also the risk of complete cannibalization by the competition without adding an SUV to their lineup.”
And some of it could play out via timing as well. “In this segment, anybody who has new product, that’s a great benefit,” says Bentley’s Kuhlman. “This segment is particularly sensitive to it. They want the hottest thing.”






Back at IFA, Philips announced a pair of new high-end monitors focused for professional use: the 328P6AU and 328P6VU. They are 32-inch displays that offer 2560 x 1440 QHD resolution and 3840 x 2160 4K resolutions, respectively, as reported by Anandtech. Earlier this week, the company announced that the lower-resolution 328P6AU will be hitting stores in January, but only in Europe for now.
The displays tout the ability to display 100 percent of the sRGB color profile, and 99 percent of the Adobe RGB color range, with support for the HDR10 standard for high-dynamic range content, all of which is important for the target audience of professionals in photography, video, and graphic design that need accurate color depictions in their lines of work. That said, the monitors only have a 60Hz refresh rate, so they’re probably not going to replace your gaming monitor anytime soon.
The most useful addition to the new monitors might be the integrated USB-C dock. The two screens have a USB-C port that supports the USB-C PD (Power Delivery) standard, so you can just plug in your laptop and have it chart, output to the display, and connect to the two USB Type A ports and Ethernet jack all with a single cable. It sounds like the perfect implementation of how you’d want a USB-C display to work. (For those on older displays, the monitors also offer a DisplayPort, HDMI, and D-Sub connectors as well.)
As for pricing and a release date, the 328P6AU — also known as the Brilliance 328P6AUBREB — still doesn’t have a firm US release, but it’s expected a little further down the line according to Anandtech. If you really want the best resolution, you’ll probably want to hold out for the 4K-equipped 328P6VU, although it’ll likely to be somewhat pricer and still only has a nebulous Q1 2018 release window.


Car2Go, the car-sharing service owned by Daimler, made the decision recently to expand its fleet to include larger sedans, assuming the customers who typically use the tiny, two-seat smart cars would appreciate a little more legroom. Now, the company is bringing its Mercedes-Benz luxury CLA and GLA sedans to its largest market yet: New York City.
Car2Go operates in just two boroughs of the city, Brooklyn and Queens. With the addition of the four-door Mercedes sedans to its core fleet of Smart Fortwo vehicles, Car2Go says it now offers 600 vehicles in the city. The company has over 77,000 customers in New York City alone, with 70 percent year-over-year membership growth. And the company says it expects to grow to 1 million members in North America by the end of 2017.
Car2Go, which allows customers to take cars one-way inside of a set perimeter and charges by the minute, launched in 2008 as one of the first car-sharing services to be started by a major automaker. Lately, other big car companies have jumped on the bandwagon, like BMW with ReachNow and General Motors with Maven. Other automakers, like Cadillac and Porsche, have begun to offer subscription services. Taken together, all of these activities can be seen as a hedge by the auto industry against the trend of more young people moving to cities and leaving their cars behind.
The move to expand its vehicle offerings by Daimler can be seen as a direct response to BMW’s expansion of ReachNow in the US. Previously, Car2Go exclusively used the smart cars, while BMW has a selection of more upscale models that includes the BMW 328xi, i3, and the Mini Cooper in both two- and four-door variants. The Daimler-owned service began offering the larger sedans starting in January, bringing the new vehicles first to  DC, Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver, Seattle, Portland, and Denver. (The Verge’s Dami Lee, a regular Car2Go user, recently tested out one of ReachNow’s Mini Coopers and found it to be “a step up over a smart car.”)
What BMW doesn’t have is Run the Jewels. The hip-hop duo recently filmed a “mini-documentary” for Car2Go, taking one of the company’s new sedans on a tour of New York City’s neighborhoods.


Netflix is bringing interactive storytelling to more of its original programming, Bloomberg reports. The streaming service is apparently producing a choose-your-own-adventure-style TV show for adults, similar to its already-available interactive children’s programming.
This past June, Netflix premiered Puss in Book: Trapped in an Epic Tale, an animated series that allowed viewers to make decisions about where the story would go and how it would end. The animated Netflix original Buddy Thunderstruck also featured a few interactive episodes, specifically designed to play off the psychology of viewers who would seek out interactive entertainment. Carla Engelbrecht Fisher, Netflix’s director of product innovation, was a motivating force behind the experiments. The founder of the game design firm No Crusts Interactive, Fisher said in June that interactivity is a natural development for children’s programming: “Kids are already talking to the screen. They’re touching every screen. They think everything is interactive.”
But it remains to be seen how well that impulse translates to adult viewers. Past attempts at adult-focused interactive entertainment have largely been novelties that struggled to find an audience. Netflix needs to figure out whether adults actually want interactive television shows, and how they react to interactivity differently from children. And because the company doesn’t release viewership numbers, it’s unclear how popular the Puss in Book or Buddy Thunderstruck experiments were.
The current choose-your-own-adventure offerings on Netflix are only controllable on certain platforms like smart TVs, Roku devices, and iOS devices, not on the web or Apple TV. Netflix hasn’t released any plot or premiere date information about the new interactive series yet.


Fitbit is releasing the first major update to the Fitbit OS software on its flagship Ionic smartwatch today, bringing a host of new apps and watchfaces to the fledging smartwatch platform.
Leading the charge are 14 new apps from major companies that have been designed specifically for Fitbit’s platform: Surfline, Clue, Game Golf,  Hue Lights, Walgreens, Nest, Yelp, Flipboard, The New York Times, TripAdvisor, Uber, United Airlines, British Airways, and Lyft. Some of those apps (like The New York Times, Yelp, and Hue Lights) will be available starting today, but the majority are slated as coming “before the end of the year” or in January.
Fitbit has also designed three new watchfaces for the Ionic that are bundled with the new update: levels, threads, and mountainscape. Additionally, there’s a new Fitbit Leaderboard app, which lets users compare their fitness stats against friends and family directly from the Ionic.
Along with these official Fitbit apps and watchfaces, the company is adding a new spread of curated user-created apps to the Ionic, some of which the company is previewing here. (It must be said that they look more than a little like ported Pebble apps, which makes sense given Fitbit OS’s Pebble-based heritage.)
Lastly, Fitbit is adding a new early access testing program for the Ionic called Fitbit Labs, which will allow users to test out “experimental apps and clock faces.” The program launches today with two apps: a Fitbit Pet watchface that’s a little like a Tamagotchi, and an app called Think Fast that looks to test mental sharpness. Three more apps — a mood-tracking watchface, a tennis-tracking app, and a treasure-hunting game — are also slated to roll out in for Fitbit Labs testers later this month.



DirecTV Now has surpassed the 1 million subscriber mark, AT&T announced today. The over-the-top service, which picked up 200,000 subscribers in its first month earlier this year, has continued its growth and is on pace to catch the industry leader Sling TV, which has 1.7 million subscribers according to Bloomberg.
While DirecTV Now’s growth is impressive, the company will miss its self-imposed deadline to release its cloud DVR and live TV pausing, both of which were scheduled to be available before the end of the year. "We're thrilled so many customers have come to love DirecTV Now and can't wait to bring them a host of new features in 2018," David Christopher, president of AT&T’s Entertainment Group said.
AT&T also has plans to add 4K HDR support, individual profiles, and downloadable content to the platform next year as well.




Instagram is rolling out a private archive of the ephemeral stories you have posted in the app. Starting today, Instagram will begin to add your expired stories to the archive feature, which until now has been used only to house photos and videos you no longer want to display on your public profile. The stories archive, which you will be able to opt out of, is being introduced globally on Android and iOS.
The stories archive represents another feature copied from Snapchat, which introduced its own version of the archive, called Memories, last year. But the archive differs from Snap’s version in one key respect: Instagram will let you post old stories to your profile in a feature the company is calling Highlights. You’ll be able to package old stories together in the archive, give them a name, and share them to your profile, where they will appear above your other posts.
Instagram says Highlights represent the biggest change to profiles in years. Among other things, the move how stories are gradually eating Instagram from the inside out. From the start, they were placed at the top of the feed; now they’re at the top of the profile as well.
Instagram says a significant (though undisclosed) number of users were downloading their stories daily, and other users complained that they had intended to but forgot. A private archive represents an obvious-to-the-point-of-being-inevitable solution.
The archive is presented in reverse-chronological order, with the most recent stories at the top. Stories are stamped with a date to help you navigate while you scroll. Once you select a story, you can re-share it to other parts of Instagram — as a post to your profile, say, or as a direct message.
As a practical matter, the existence of Snapchat Memories all but required Instagram to build its own version. At times, I’ve used Snapchat to post stories because I know they’ll be saved, and I won’t have to remember to download them within 24 hours. The flip side is that I rarely return to my old stories, wherever I’ve posted them — the posts are intended to be ephemeral, after all. I expect Instagram will eventually play with ways of re-surfacing old stories to users the way Timehop does — otherwise, they may not spend much time diving into the past.
The more dramatic change introduced with the archive is with Highlights. Until now, Instagram profiles have been places for carefully manicured self-presentation. “In a lot of ways, people get to know you through Instagram and your profile,” says Robby Stein, product lead at Instagram. “It’s such an important space, but it’s also one that hasn’t changed very much.”
Highlights could enliven profiles with the typically more candid photos and videos that often appear in stories. As a byproduct, they’ll likely increase the amount of video on most people’s profiles as well. I suspect brands may like Highlights more than regular users do — they offer a convenient way to package related content together and surface it in a prominent place in the app.
You can create as many Highlights as you want, with the most recent one appearing left-most on the screen. You scroll through them horizontally, as with stories in the feed. To create one, open up a story in the archive and tap the ellipsis (...) button to get started. After selecting the stories you want to package together, you pick a cover photo, give it a name, and post it to your profile.
When the story archive is available to your account, you’ll get a notification inside the app. Instagram won’t begin saving your stories until that notification appears, and it offers a link to opt out if you choose.


On May 15th, 1984, Felix Estrada went on a morning run near the University of San Carlos in Guatemala City, just as he did every day. His brother Salomon, who he shared a room with, heard him come back, shower, get dressed, and leave again at 6:30AM. At first, it seemed like any other morning.
But Felix never came home for dinner, and as his cold dinner plate sat on the kitchen table, Salomon and his mother began to worry. “On that day, I did feel like something was strange, particularly because my mother felt it,” Salomon says. “My brother usually arrived at nine o’clock, and at 11 my mom felt something was wrong and said, “Felix hasn’t come home. What could have happened?’”
Salomon never saw Felix again. A 25-year-old university student, Felix was involved in leftist political organizing during the height of the country’s civil war, when leftists were seen as a threat by the state. Until the discovery of state documents two decades later, the Estrada family had no information on what happened to Felix that day.
Now, a project to catalog and digitize Guatemala’s National Police Archives has helped families like the Estradas finally find answers and come closer to reaching justice for the disappearance of their loved ones.
“As a family, what we suffered is difficult to forget,” says Salomon. “You have a life with your disappeared family member. In the case of my brother Felix, I was 17 and he was 25. He was the older one who always took us to play sports or to do the shopping. How does the state expect us to forget?”
An estimated 200,000 people were killed, and 45,000 more disappeared, during Guatemala’s 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996. A truth commission later found the state to be responsible for 93 percent of the human rights abuses during that time. And the 80 million pages of police documents currently being cataloged and digitized reveal incriminating details of how forced disappearances were carried out by the state.
The significance of these documents is invaluable to families, human rights groups, and prosecutors working to uncover the circumstances of the disappearances and killings. The archives are one of three key elements needed to serve justice to perpetrators of wide-scale state-sponsored human rights abuses: witness testimony, forensic evidence, and official documentation. Organizing such a large amount of documents into a digital database is a tedious and resource-intensive process that can cost millions of dollars and last decades, but it’s a necessary one.
“Guatemala’s history is one in which the country, particularly the state, has a great debt to pay to the victims and their family members,” says Alberto Fuentes, director of public relations at the National Police Archives.
For nearly a decade following the 1996 peace accords, access to archival documents from the civil war period was limited. The military archives were closed to the public and the existence of the police archives was denied by the government. Then, in 2005 a nearby bomb threat inadvertently brought authorities to the National Police Archives. For human rights groups, the archives were a treasure trove hidden in plain sight. The building in which they were stored was a half-constructed police hospital, repurposed as an unkept warehouse. Anyone driving by the capital city’s Zone 6 neighborhood wouldn’t have noticed the poorly kept building littered with trash and abandoned cars. But inside were the long-sought-after police archives.
“When the archives appeared, we immediately realized the importance that this held to tell the country’s story,” Fuentes says. “For us, recovering the archives was a golden opportunity.”
The discovery sparked further investigation in the area by the country’s human rights ombudsman, a state employee in charge of protecting human rights. Inside the building, workers revealed rooms full of stacks of documents and books that detailed the police operations.
The documents dated from the founding of the police in 1881 to 1997 when the National Police was dissolved and replaced with a new police body. The files cataloged every tiny detail of police operations, such as vacation days, daily time logs, and other mundane internal communication. At first glance, some of these administrative documents seemed irrelevant to forced disappearances. But with a closer look, the significance of the archives became immediately clear: a series of found files showed a police surveillance system that tracked the political activity of leftist students, activists, and politicians as far back as the 1950s. Statistical analysis of the documents revealed that the mass disappearances were not rogue operations, but part of a systematic method to repress leftist movements.
Investigators also discovered a section in the center of the warehouse that had been completely sealed off by concrete. The ombudsman later said he believed the room was a clandestine detention center used to torture people during the civil war.
Soon after the warehouse’s discovery, human rights organizations and archivists began a coordinated effort to catalog and digitize the documents. This process will take years and is resource-intensive. Today, more than a decade after it was started, just over 20 million pages have been archived, or a quarter of all the material. Fuentes estimates it could be decades before the project is complete.
Nevertheless, the work is critical for Guatemala to come to terms with its past.
“The absolute best source for holding someone accountable is by using his or her own words. By using the records of the police in human rights cases involving policemen and women, you can follow their own actions as reflected in the records they created at the time,” says Trudy Peterson, an archivist from the US who trained the original team of 100 individuals working in Guatemala on the archival process. The project was coordinated by Gustavo Meoño, a lawyer and former guerrilla fighter. Fuentes, another former guerrilla, was also part of this group.
Peterson trained this group of Guatemalans on the key principles of archiving official records. “One of the main challenges was the carelessness of the police in caring for the records, which essentially were dumped in the warehouse,” Peterson says. “The challenge was not only figuring out what records existed and describing them, but also protecting them from rain, insects, bats, and grime.”
In tan coats, rubber gloves, and protective masks, the team of archivists sit at tables in the musty, cold, concrete-walled warehouse where the original documents were found, removing staples and adhesives from documents and folders. The documents are then sent over to the digitization wing of the building to be scanned and put into a digital database.
The project has been made possible by funding from the governments of Sweden, Switzerland, Germany, and the Netherlands. Research institutions such as the University of Texas and University of Oregon have also contributed to the project, housing a part of the archives in their own digital databases.
In its earliest days, many individuals involved worried about government interference with the project in a country where many powerful people still don’t want these documents brought to light. As a precaution, the Swiss Embassy in Guatemala has a backup of the database of the police archives, but the archives report that the project has never been seriously threatened by political interests.
By 2009, the project had advanced enough to be able to answer information requests from family members, local judges, and international human rights organizations. Given the full name of the disappeared person along with the date and location of disappearance, it takes the archivists about 15 days to search the digital database. Nearly 6,000 family members have filed information requests to date. More than 80 percent of these families have received records about their relatives’ disappearances.
“We always knew clearly that our biggest objective and purpose was to give access to the information that the archive holds,” Fuentes says. Salomon Estrada was among the first to file a query for information. At the same time that he filed a request about Felix, he also filed one for his brother Cesar, who had also disappeared during the civil war.
Thanks to the archives, Salomon now has more information about the circumstances of Felix’s disappearance.
After leaving his house, Felix headed to a meeting of political organizers. He and a group of friends were then intercepted by authorities, who brought them to a clandestine torture center. The forced disappearance of Felix and 27 other students was chronicled in what has become known as the “Caso Diario Militar,” named after a leaked military document found in 1999. Felix was tortured for about a month before he was shot to death.
After that, the trail goes cold. Felix’s body was never found, and no one has been held responsible for his murder. Salomon found no information on the disappearance of his brother Cesar.
To this day, Salomon continues to search for truth and justice as one of the founders of an activist group for family members of the disappeared, called Asociación Verdad y Justicia por el Diario Militar, known as Grupo AVEJA. The group was founded after the discovery of the “Diario Militar” documents to demand information about their own family members. Since the founding of the group, its members have all filed information requests through the National Police Archives. Grupo AVEJA also advocates for and shares information about the archives with other institutions that help families find information on the disappeared. “We fight without wanting vengeance and without wanting to create divisions in society,” Salomon says.
Using the National Police Archives and the “Diario Militar” documents, the families of the victims filed a human rights case against the Guatemalan state. In 2012, the case was presented to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, where lawyers relied on more than 3,000 documents in relation to the “Caso Diario Militar,” and 19 documents directly tied to Felix that were found through the police archives. The court ruled that state was responsible for the forced disappearance of the 27 students and for failing to properly investigate the cases.
“It’s a huge victory and it sets a precedent because it shows the new generations that you don’t have to be scared,” Salomon says. “Fear fades away as you continue to fight.”
The “Caso Diario Militar” case presented a largely symbolic victory. To this day, no Guatemalan military or police official has been tried or sentenced for the disappearances in that case. But in other cases that used the documents from the police archives, high-ranking police and military officers have been convicted for human rights abuses.
“In Guatemala, we lived 30 years of absolute impunity,” says Fuentes. “This process of archiving the police documents wasn’t the only thing that changed this, but it is important. It was one of the factors that started to make justice possible.”
More archived documents are digitized and cataloged each day, but funding has started to become more scarce. During the peak of the archives’ digitization efforts, a team of 100 people digitized 2 million documents per year. Now a team of 60 digitizes about half a million pages per year. At this rate, Fuentes estimates that the process could go on for 15 to 20 years.
“It’s important to me to keep searching for more information, because that is how we are going to prove that these things did happen,” says Salomon. “When we have more information and we know the truth, it makes us stronger. We can say to the new generations that they shouldn’t be afraid, because many things that have happened in this country have made people fearful.”
“We are saying to people, ‘This happened, and the only way of making sure it doesn’t happen again is to speak out.’”
In October 2017, Salomon filed another request of information on his brother’s Cesar’s death. Again, the search results came up empty.



Last night, Unicode announced the beta version of 2018’s emoji list, and there’s one proposed update that has nothing to do with adding new candidates: emoji direction.
Emojipedia says the ability to switch the direction of emoji has been a long-requested feature and might not affect all emoji, but only the ones that would “benefit from it most.” Consider the blog’s unfortunate sample graphic below, that uses the train, runner, and gun emoji.
The new Unicode document says of the change:
“Emoji with glyphs that face to the right or left may face either direction, according to vendor preference. However, that can cause a definite change in meaning when exchanging text across platforms. The following ZWJ mechanism can be used to pick an explicit direction.”
Ignoring the abundance of cringe above, the ability to flip emoji could definitely lend itself to conveying more subtle or pointed emoji messages. The pair of eyes that currently looks to the left, for example, would be one of my top picks for this. The shade I could impart if I could pick the direction!
Of course, in addition to this, the list of potential new emoji to be included is also ever evolving. Earlier possibilities that have been now trashed include Frowning Pile Of Poo and Grinning Face With Letters OK As Eyes, but still in the running are Mango, Face With Smiling Eyes And Party Horn And Party Hat, redheads (!), and Badger, which I am personally excited about so I can finally text the “Badger Badger Badger” song to someone entirely in emoji.
Final decisions about next year’s emoji list will be made at the Unicode Technical Meeting in January, and once published, should roll out on major platforms in the latter half of 2018.


Should Elon Musk’s Boring Company ever get the technology and the regulatory approvals in shape to move forward with building a network of tunnels underneath Los Angeles, now we know what that system might look like.
The company recently published a map on its website detailing the first proposed routes. The longest artery stretches about 40 miles from the Sherman Oaks neighborhood, located north of downtown Los Angeles, to Long Beach Airport, which is in the southeastern corner of LA county.
This primary path more or less traces the same route laid out by Interstate 405, and would feature smaller tributary tunnels running off to Santa Monica, Venice, South Bay, Los Angeles International Airport, and Hawthorne (where SpaceX and The Boring Company are headquartered). A second route would run east-west from LAX to south Los Angeles, before following State Route 110 north through downtown and ending at Dodger Stadium.
As we learned in April when Musk first showed off the concept behind The Boring Company, the plan for these tunnels is to solve Los Angeles’ famous automotive congestion by moving some of the traffic flow below ground. But they’re not just empty tunnels; instead, a car on the surface would dodge traffic by taking a sort of elevator down, which would then move as a “sled” through the tunnels at speeds of 150 miles per hour. Bus-like “pods” would move non-car owners around the city, too.
The company stresses in the caption for the map that the initial routes are a “concept,” not “a finalized alignment.” The part highlighted in red represents a 6.5-mile stretch that the company wants to use as a “proof-of-concept” tunnel. There, it would perform verification tests of all the necessary systems, like the car sleds that will whisk riders to their destination, but also the equipment and processes being used to build the tunnels in the first place. The company calls this the “Phase 1” section of the tunnel, and says it won’t be used by the public until it is “deemed successful by County government, City government, and The Boring Company.”
Back in August, The Boring Company won approval from the Hawthorne, California city council to dig a two-mile-long test tunnel under the city streets that surround its headquarters. While that tunnel seems to be coming along nicely, the company has also shared a test video of one of the sleds in action, as well as a demonstration of the elevator concept.
In July, the billionaire CEO combined two of his concurrent transportation projects when he tweeted that he received “verbal govt approval” to build an underground Hyperloop that would connect New York City to Washington, DC.


When Google sliced the headphone jack off from its 2017 generation of Pixel phones, the move was commonly defended by reference to a false equivalence between the iPhone and the latest Pixels. If Apple can go jack-less, went the reasoning, why not Google too? Well, Apple’s iPhone happens to have the best-developed third-party ecosystem of bespoke peripherals and accessories, and today some of the leading audio companies have iPhone-specific, Lightning-connected headphones. Audeze, Shure, Bowers & Wilkins, and a number of others have introduced Lightning audio cables and Lightning versions of their best portable headphones. Google’s preferred USB-C, on the other hand, is a relative wasteland.
Libratone is an interesting Danish company that lands smack in the middle of this Apple-Google dichotomy. In September of 2016, Libratone joined the growing list of companies with Lightning headphones by launching its Q Adapt Lightning earphones with built-in noise cancelling. At the time, I asked the company whether it would do a USB-C version, and was treated to a horror story about the inconsistency of USB-C implementations across phone manufacturers and the dreadful difficulty of making a pair of headphones compatible with every USB-C device on the market. The whole notion that I had in my mind — of Android devices outselling iPhones in most places around the globe and therefore making USB-C more appealing than Lightning — seemed to be crumbling.
The workaround that Libratone chose for Android’s chronic fragmentation was to work with just one company, signing up to be among Google’s first “Made for Google” peripheral-making partners. That’s how the $149 USB-C version of the Q Adapt earphones came to be. Carrying the Google sticker meant Libratone had to only ensure compatibility with one family of phones: Google’s Pixels. The larger and pricier ($249) Q Adapt on-ear headphones, on the other hand, have practically no Google affinity to speak of; they’re just wireless Bluetooth headphones that also have the “Made for Google” sticker on their box. (Aside: I’m really bothered by this sticker. If either pair of headphones were “Made for Google,” shouldn’t that be reflected in the actual packaging? By its transient nature, the sticker betrays the fact that the “Made for Google” idea was an afterthought).
The dearth of USB-C earphones means that the USB-C Q Adapt are practically in a field of their own. My colleague Helen Havlak had an exasperating struggle trying to find a pair for her Pixel 2, and the responses to my tweet below also illustrate the unfulfilled need.
USB-C earphones: do they exist? Asking for many friends.If you make them and think they're good, I'll prioritise them for review.
It’s a good thing, then, that the Libratone Q Adapt earphones sound quite terrific. Granted, I didn’t have the highest expectations from a company with no competition, but Libratone has really crafted a pair of highly entertaining, pleasing earphones — which just happen to connect via USB-C rather than the traditional headphone port. The Q Adapt’s bass is satisfyingly deep and anchors everything nicely, with the rest of the presentation retaining clarity and definition even with the bass bump. I enjoy my music through these earphones, even if they don’t have the widest soundstage or the most refined and precise audio response. They sound good enough for me, and I’m habituated to reviewing $1,500 cans like the Focal Clear.
The USB-C connection helps Libratone port over one of the unique Q Adapt features from the Lightning version of these earphones: adaptive noise cancelling. There are various levels of intensity for it, and you can toggle between them with a dedicated key on the in-line remote control. I find each setting actually alters the sound produced by the Q Adapt quite substantially, so you’re not simply choosing how much external sound to let in: you’re also choosing between varieties of tuning. Without USB-C, this feature would have required batteries inside the earphones, but Libratone’s able to get noise cancelling done with just the power it draws from the phone, which is a nice efficiency win and saves you having to worry about charging.
Between the USB-C plug and the rather long in-line remote, the Q Adapt’s cable is covered in a nice braided fabric, and then after the Y-splitter it’s a relatively thin plastic culminating in the polished plastic ear buds. I find these earphones easy to put on, wear, and remove, and I find that ease of use a big attraction when paired with the friendly sound tuning. Nothing here is groundbreaking or setting new heights of excellence, but everything is done to a high enough level to justify the $149 price tag.
One problem that the Q Adapt earphones do have, though: you have no idea which USB-C device they’ll be compatible with and to what extent. Take smartphones as the obvious example: the Google Pixel 2 and 2 XL work with it perfectly, of course, and so do the Xiaomi Mi Mix 2 and the Huawei Mate 10 Pro. But the OnePlus 5T? Nothing. It’s like I haven’t plugged anything into it at all. When I connect the Q Adapt in-ears to my MacBook Pro, they play very nicely, but I can’t use their remote control to pause the music I’m listening to or adjust its volume. On the Mac, only software-based volume controls — such as the volume slider in Spotify or iTunes — can tweak the sound output of the Q Adapt earphones.
Turning to the Q Adapt on-ears, I find there’s much less excitement and interest to convey. The cynical branding exercise is perfectly obvious here, as these headphones don’t even use a USB-C port to charge; they’re still stuck on the old and busted MicroUSB. Libratone could have used USB-C to charge the Q Adapt on-ears and also receive a digital music signal, much as Bowers & Wilkins does with its own wireless PX headphones. The USB-C connection on the PX delivers a slightly better sound quality than the wireless alternative. But nope, Libratone just slapped that Google sticker on its box.
I can heartily commend the Q Adapt on-ear headphones for their comfort and lightness. They are featherlight but steady on my head, and they make a nice neck decoration when I don’t want to listen to them. It would have been nice if they could contract down to a smaller shape, though.
As the name suggests, this pair of cans shares in the adaptive noise cancelling tech of its in-ear siblings, and I appreciate it just as much here. Where the on-ear Q Adapt differs, though, is that it doesn’t sound anywhere near as good as the USB-C version. The heft of the in-ear Q Adapt’s bass is missing, and the on-ear headphones just sound a whole lot more digital and less convincing. I find the artificiality of their sound distracting, and I find myself avoiding them.
Two other important downsides to the Q Adapt on-ears: The Libratone logo on the right ear cup continually glows while they’re active, and that glow is too bright and just plain annoying (you can turn it off in the app, though apps shouldn’t be necessary to adequately use a thing like headphones). And the battery is not particularly impressive. Libratone promises 20 hours of battery life, but I get down to a 60-percent charge within just a couple of hours of listening and have found myself recharging them even without any epic music marathons (which these headphones’ sound is never good enough to justify).
As far as Android compatibility goes, Android Fast Pair is the only thing distinguishing these Bluetooth Q Adapt on-ears from the mass of Bluetooth headphones out there. On a Pixel 2, you can see the remaining battery level, but that’s pretty much a universal feature in modern platform-agnostic wireless headphones like the B&W PX too. All in all, the Q Adapt on-ears are just overpriced Bluetooth headphones that Google is selling in order to flesh out its online peripherals store. That’s my best guess, anyway.
Libratone’s achievement with the Q Adapt in-ears shouldn’t be underestimated. The company took a successful new product in its Lightning-based earphones, and it successfully transposed it to the Android realm of USB-C. No, the Q Adapt USB-C buds aren’t compatible with every USB-C phone, and that’s a problem, and they also cost $30 more than the now-discounted Q Adapt Lightning model. But even at $149, these are comfortable, good-sounding earphones that are difficult to criticize. If you’re buying a Pixel or any other USB-C phone without a headphone jack of its own, I recommend these as an essential accessory. I just hope their price comes down to more reasonable levels soon.
The Q Adapt on-ear headphones, on the other hand, are hard to rationally justify. Yes, they’re comfy and stylish. But they cost more than the excellent Sony 1000X, which are now at $229, and do absolutely nothing better. These are utterly forgettable Bluetooth headphones that have gained a bit of notoriety by virtue of Google’s endorsement.
Photography by Vlad Savov / The Verge


So you just spent $1,000 on an iPhone X. Once you’ve had your fill of that new screen, the notch, and Face ID, it’s time to master what’s truly the most important feature of Apple’s latest phone: Animoji. Sending a voice message to a friend is a lot more fun when an animated unicorn, robot, or poop emoji is doing the talking and mimicking your facial expressions. That part’s easy, but it didn’t take long for people to come up with another creative way of using Animoji: karaoke.
You’ve seen some of the videos by now. Even Apple made one. So if you’ve come up with the perfect song to lipsync as one of the Animoji characters, the above video will show you the necessary steps. There are two methods for recording Animoji karaoke, and the one you’ll use depends on the length of your video. The quick and dirty way is to record everything right in iMessage. That only gives you 10 seconds to work with, but at least you can switch between Animoji after lipsyncing to see which of them is the best performer for your chosen song.
If you want something longer (like an entire song), you’ll use the new screen recording feature in iOS 11. This approach also sounds much better in the end, since you’ll be importing the actual song into Apple’s iMovie app instead of recording audio with your iPhone’s microphone.
Do I wish we could have demonstrated this process with music that everyone actually recognizes? Oh, definitely. But copyright is a thorny and unrelenting foe, so I’ll have to keep my own perfect song and Animoji combinations to myself. Instead, for the purpose of this video... a holiday song first written in 1864 it is. This one’s not going viral, but you aren’t dealing with those constraints, so don’t shackle your own creativity like me. Bring out your inner Animoji karaoke star.


Spotify released its annual list of the year’s top tracks, artists, and genres this morning,   and, in the words of chief content officer Stefan Blom, “There is no doubt that 2017 was The Year of Ed Sheeran.” Oh, wow.
Sheeran’s “Shape of You,” which is nominated for a Grammy for best solo pop performance, became the most-streamed track in the platform’s history, racking up 1.4 billion streams since its January release. (Out of curiosity, I put that figure into a streaming royalty calculator. About $5.6 million, in case you were wondering!) His March album, Divide (stylized “÷”, which is rude), was streamed 3.1 billion times, making it the top album on Spotify this year.
These figures made Sheeran the top artist on the platform as well, pushing Drake — who topped the list in 2015 and 2016 — down to number two. This was the first year in the top five for runners-up The Weeknd, Kendrick Lamar, and The Chainsmokers. All five of the global top artists were men, and all five of the platform’s top albums were made by men, which is a little annoying and everyone could have done better. The most-streamed female artist was Rihanna, followed by Taylor Swift — an impressive showing considering that none of her music was available on the platform until June.
Oddly, Spotify found that the “most musical” day of 2017 was Tuesday, June 13th. You could choose to see that as four days after Swift’s music returned to the platform, or you could choose to see it as a nice June day when everyone was working on their barbecue playlists and dreaming of the first official weekend of summer.
For some more pleasant numbers, Spotify also called out the wild year-over-year growth in the hip-hop (74 percent) and Latin (110 percent) genres. Two of the top five songs of the year were Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee’s “Despacito,” unsurprising after the song was named the most-streamed track of all time in July. It was streamed 4.6 billion times across all major platforms, including Spotify and YouTube, taking the record from Justin Bieber’s 2015 single “Sorry.”
Of the year’s top five breakout artists, three were former members of popular group acts — Fifth Harmony’s Camila Cabello, One Direction’s Harry Styles, and One Direction’s Liam Payne — and two were SoundCloud rappers — Lil Pump and Trippie Redd. In the US specifically, the most popular track of the year was not “Shape of You,” but Kendrick Lamar’s “HUMBLE,” and number two was Lil Uzi Vert’s “XO TOUR Llif3,” a song he originally uploaded to SoundCloud with a typo-riddled title after the phone storing his debut album was stolen at a show.
Sheeran isn’t the most-streamed artist in the US (he’s number four on that list), as that is a designation that still belongs to the generous, benevolent king of memes.





Nintendo and Nvidia’s relationship is extending beyond the latter company providing the guts for the former’s so-far successful Switch. In an unprecedented collaboration for Nintendo, it’s working with Nvidia to port a selection of Wii and GameCube games to the Android-powered Shield TV for today’s release in China.
If you pick up a Chinese Shield TV, you’ll be able to play New Super Mario Bros. Wii, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and Punch-Out! right away, with other games including Super Mario Galaxy set for future release. All of these games have been remastered in 1080p, meaning they should look a lot better on modern TVs than they did back on the Wii, and they sell for 68 yuan — about $10. The Shield TV itself costs 1499 yuan, or about $225.
This is gameplay of New Super Mario Bros Wii running at 1080p on Nvidia Shield. It is said that Metroid Prime for Wii will also come to the system in the future. pic.twitter.com/FKYFFoPB2R
Though these releases are limited to China, the very fact that first-party Nintendo games are up and running in HD on the Shield TV will no doubt intrigue fans elsewhere. The Switch, after all, uses the same Tegra X1 system-on-chip as the Shield TV, and this could be a sign of what’s to come. Nintendo is yet to offer its Virtual Console service, which offered a wide range of downloadable games from the company’s extensive back catalogue, on the Switch.
Nintendo hasn’t released the Switch in China, and historically doesn’t directly offer its consoles for sale in the market; a subsidiary called iQue has handled China-specific variants of handheld consoles as well as a version of the N64 back in 2003. This, then, is a significant step into Chinese living rooms for Nintendo.
Nvidia is making similarly major efforts to adapt its product to China. The Shield TV sold in the rest of the world runs Android TV and makes use of Google software like the Assistant and the Play Store, neither of which can be used in the region. As such, Nvidia says the Chinese Shield TV will have “completely localized” software with a different store, content from major video platform iQiyi, and Baidu’s voice assistant.


This week on Why'd You Push That Button?, we're talking about sending nudes. Sending a naked photo of yourself in 2017 doesn't need to be complicated, but with hundreds of thousands of messaging apps to choose from, deciding how to send that nude can require some thought. Do you take to Snapchat, iMessage, or Instagram DMs? What about sending them through your dating app?
We talked to two people about how they make sense of this messaging app utopia. An anonymous man named Frank primarily uses gay dating apps like Grindr and Scruff to send his nudes because they feature built-in camera functions, while our other interviewee, Eden Rohatensky, chooses their platform based off the recipient of the message. Someone new might get a nude through Snapchat, whereas their friends might receive them in iMessage. Eden also tells us how they send nudes platonically with friends in an effort to build body positivity, which is fantastic. They wrote a Medium post about this exact thing earlier this year.
We then take all our messaging thoughts to Eric Silverberg, CEO and co-founder of gay dating app Scruff. He explains why he built a camera function into the app and how he thinks the feature will eventually trickle down into straight apps. Scruff tells us that more than a million photos and videos are sent over chat daily.
Listen to the podcast above and read the transcript below.
Ashley: Before we get into photo sharing and everything like that, can you just tell us a little bit about Scruff? How old is the app? You created it, things like that.
Eric Silverberg: Sure. Scruff is more than seven years old. We are one of the largest gay dating apps on iPhone and Android, and one of the first gay dating apps to really go global. We are extremely popular here in the United States, down in Latin America, Western Europe. And we have one of the most unique communities on Scruff. It really is a social app the encompasses everything gay guys like to do online, whether it's meet, chat, hook up, but also connect to events, connect with guys when they travel. We're a pretty broad and encompassing app for a pretty special community.
Ashley: Okay, and you totally created it, right?
Yes. My co-founder and I started it back in 2010.
Kaitlyn: That's older than Tinder, right?
Yeah. We predate Tinder by at least two years.
Ashley: For this episode, we're specifically talking about sending nudes, but really how we ended up coming to you was that one of our interviewees that we talked to mentioned that he uses gay dating apps, and he takes advantage of the cameras that are built into these apps. So I'm just wondering if you can just tell us a little bit about the camera function in Scruff, like how it works and what it's designed to do.
So Scruff gives you a number of ways to share content and share images with other people. You can take photos directly within Scruff and send them in chat. You can also select photos from your camera roll that you've already taken. We also let you archive images, so you can send it from the cloud, if you will, as well. I think one of the unique use cases for gay men and gay apps in particular, is that I think gay guys share nude photos. Gay guys share explicit content. In addition to everything else that I think people will share, especially when they're getting to know each other.
When we were building our photo sharing functionality, we knew that would be a core use case. As we grew, and as it became kind of more central to the app, we built functionality called private albums. So you can, in addition, share a collection of photos or unshare a collection of photos based on your preference.
Kaitlyn: Tinder doesn't have any photo sharing ability in messaging. Not only can you not take photos in the app or store photos in archive, you literally can't share them. So I'm curious how you would think about this feature, if you had made an app that also has women on it. Because I'm guessing that that is a major reason that Tinder is set up that way.
It's a great question. There is a fundamental difference, in my opinion, between apps that cater to gay men and apps that cater to men and women. I think it's rooted in the fact that there is a fundamental power imbalance between men and women, and there is a fundamental question of safety and security, physical safety and security, that exists between men and women that is still present between two men, but I think it's much closer to being equal.
I think because of that asymmetry that, perhaps it's a social construct, but that perceived asymmetry in power, you will see a lot more ... You'll see different design decisions. I think, for example, if a woman received content from a man that was perhaps risque or perhaps explicit, I think her reaction to receiving that kind of content would be very different than on Scruff, where if someone shares a private album with you and it's explicit content, the social construct behind that action and the emotional reaction to that, I think it's just very different.
And so, I can understand why if you're creating an app for men and women, you might want to essentially lock down what you can do and what you can share. And really tune it to, and prioritize, the experience of the women on your app first and foremost.
Ashley: Do you have any warnings about the camera at all? Do you say, "Hey, think before you share," or something like that? I don't know. Because one of the people we talked to mentioned that he was Googling, I guess, because he came on. He was like, "Whoa, I didn't realize that maybe I shouldn't be sharing my dick pics this much. Because, well, that's my body."
Kaitlyn: He also said that he kind of felt like the fact that Grindr offers the photo archive is sort of a feature that enables more sharing and quicker sharing, because you don't have to go onto your phone, scroll back through your camera roll, figure out where the photo was. You're just like, "Here's my nude bank." Or whatever. Like, it's very fast.
So I guess we're curious about what kind of security features, how do you think about security on that specific feature?
Ashley: Yeah. He specifically mentioned Grindr, in that case. Do you give users any sort of warning, or a "think twice" type of thing?
There's no warning in any of the gay apps when it comes to actually sharing image content with other members. That said, Scruff is unique in its ability to allow you to both share and unshare collections of your private album, so collections of photos.
Scruff is also unique in that we do allow our members to unsend photos in any message if they later change their mind. Now, neither one of these approaches is 100 percent foolproof. Anyone, once they receive content from you, can screenshot it. Even if you were to write the most sophisticated code possible, you could literally take a second smartphone and take a picture of the first smartphone, and thus have exfiltrated that content.
I think this is as much a social issue as it is a technical issue. I think what we are seeing is the social landscape change significantly from when we started more than seven years ago. I think you're seeing, not only gay men sharing personal content, explicit content in some cases, but you're also seeing straight men and women doing the same thing, especially with the rise of apps like Tinder.
That's, I think, also part of the reason why we're seeing lawmakers starting to pay attention to some of the worst case and most problematic consequences of sharing that sort of content. I know lawmakers in California were close to passing a law, I don't recall if they have yet, but they were debating a law on the topic of revenge porn and using explicit content, essentially resharing explicit content without permission for the sake of embarrassing someone else.
I mean, I can guarantee you there will come a point when our lawmakers themselves have revenge porn being leaked out onto the internet. Whether it's 2020 or 2030, there will be an American president one day who shared naughty photos when he or she was young. And so I think there is very much a social change that is happening.
I think making people more aware, not only of what could happen when they share something in private, but more importantly, making people aware of what could happen if they take private content and publish it publicly, knowing that they could get sued, fined, maybe even go to jail. I'm hopeful that that will change things for the better.
Ashley: ODo both parties have to agree to message each other, or can someone send a picture without an agreement on the other end, consent on the other end?
And also, I'm not sure if you've done any research into this, but do you know if people ask often if they're comfortable with photos being sent to them? Consent on the recipient's side, as opposed to the sender's side.
Messaging in Scruff is open, so anyone is free to initiate conversation with anyone else. Anyone's free to send content unsolicited to anyone else. Now, that said, you can block. Certainly, you can block other members, and you can clear conversations. So if you receive content you don't like, you can clear it, block the member, and if necessary, you can report them, if they're violating our community guidelines.
I think that the protocol in the gay community and the reaction by the gay community to receiving content, solicited or unsolicited, I think it's just different than it is in the straight community, so it's not as big of an issue. Typically, the content that you're receiving is of the person who's sending it, so it's not as much of a concern as is, will the person that I sent my content to turn around and reshare it without my permission.
Ashley: Could you explain some of your guidelines that you've developed over the years? Because, I don't know if you developed them from the onset, or incidents happened, or whatever. Just, could you explain some of your community guidelines that you've developed?
Sure. Yeah, we have a set of community guidelines that we have developed over the years. In addition to strong prohibitions about misrepresenting yourself, using fake images, catfishing, ... some of the most important guidelines are centered around your conduct, and the things that you say to other members, and the things that you say in your profile and in your profile text.
A critical feature of an app like Scruff is making sure that our community feels safe and feels welcome. If we have members of our community that are disruptors for some reason, they're uploading very offensive profile imagery, or have profile text that's threatening in some way, or perhaps more often the case, are simply being harassing in chat to other members, that's when our support team will step in and take action, and let people know this is a different kind of space. This is not like Twitter, where it seems pretty much anything goes, right?
This is not a publishing platform, if you will. This is a space where people who, generally speaking, are complete strangers, are coming together to try and meet one another to learn something about each other, maybe share content with one another, hopefully meet up. And as a result, we have a different and, I think, more stringent set of concerns.
That's why we have published a very complete set of community guidelines. Not only that, we enforce those guidelines. I think that's one of the key differentiators to the community that is Scruff compared to any others.
Kaitlyn: I'm assuming that people are sharing photos that aren't nudes, too. Probably just sharing photos of their faces or photos of a dog they saw. I don't know.
Definitely.
Kaitlyn: But is there anything specifically protecting nude photos? Just from like a very basic ...
Ashley: Are you encrypting the files, the actual security.
Kaitlyn: Yeah. It just seems like something people are thinking a lot more about. People are wary of, I mean ... I didn't know the word encryption until I was 19. I don't know.
Sure. So, and I think that you've, or perhaps the creators of that app, have identified a real issue, which is you don't want to have X-rated content, or explicit content, in your camera roll, because a lot of times you're loaning your camera out to someone to take a picture, or you're flipping through it with a friend. That's one of the big reasons why Scruff built its private album functionality. So you could essentially take that content off of your phone and send it and secure it up into the cloud. We ensure that information in transit is definitely encrypted.
I think, that said, it's up to everyone, whatever service they're using, whether it's Scruff, whether it's iCloud, to make sure that they are practicing security, or best practices when it comes to security. Use a strong password. Don't share your password with other people. Take advantage of two-factor authentication, especially for services that offer it.
Ashley: Do you have two-factor on Scruff?
It's something that we are definitely looking into for the future.
Ashley: And then, you mentioned it in transit, do you store these on Scruff's personal servers?  When it's on the server, is it encrypted? What kind of protections do you have on the server?
We take a number of steps to secure our network. Encryption is a multifaceted and multilayered question and process. Yeah, I can say that the technical architecture of Scruff is one that we have had very smart people look into. We've worked with security researchers and security experts to ensure that the data that's on Scruff stays safe and that our members can use Scruff with confidence and know that their information isn't going to be disclosed to unauthorized parties.
Kaitlyn: So, it sounds like to you ... To go back to when you were building the app, it sounds like you always knew that you had to include this feature. What kind of user research did you do around that, and what kind of user research do you do now around that?
It's a great question. I think really when we started we were building Scruff for ourselves and kind of making a lot of ... Really going with intuition and going with our gut. We were learning as we go and evolving with the platform. The iPhone itself was much different. The capabilities of the iPhone were much different back then.
Today, we have a very full featured app. We are taking a renewed ... We've started renewed effort around user research, and doing some deep ethnographies where I think most recently we've interviewed more than 30 users for an hour each, to really build a complete and robust profile of how our members use the app, both here in the United States and abroad. I think the way people use Scruff and the way people use apps itself has evolved from, perhaps, just being about hookups in the beginning, to something bigger and much broader today. We know people on Scruff use it to make friends. They use it to learn about events and meet people who are attending events coming up.
We also know that travel is a huge use case for Scruff, which is why we built a feature called "Scruff Venture" that enables you to connect with other guys who are traveling in the same city, as well as connect with guys in the city who are happy to answer questions about where to go and what to do.
There's been a lot of evolution in how people use gay apps. We're at an inflection point where we really are trying to dig deeper to make the app, or continue to make the app, as useful and as fun as possible.
Ashley: Was video initially, when you first launched Scruff, part of the camera function, or is that newer?
It was not initially part of it, frankly, because the devices themselves weren't really ready to handle it. I think we launched it around 2013. We let you kind of record videos up to around 30 seconds length, and include those in your private album or show them in chat.
Ashley: What was your thought process when it came time to add video? Were you just sort of like, "The phones can handle it now. We wanted to do this before, but just the tech wasn't there." Or was it more of a considered decision that you guys made?
We knew our members wanted to share video and were sharing video via other means, whether it was other services or just kind of sending MMS messages. So we wanted to make it easier for people and we wanted to integrate it directly into the app. Yeah, it was around 2013 when the technology really made that achievable and allowed you to share what, frankly, are much larger files more efficiently. We probably launched video soon after Snapchat had really gotten its start.
Ashley: Is there anything from dating apps now that you're hoping in the future trickles down into the broader culture?
Yes. I think that, especially unique to gay dating apps, we enable our members to be very upfront in expressing their sex preferences. There's sexual preferences, which refer to if you want to have sex with men, you want to have sex with women. And then there are sex preferences. In the gay world, frequently, that's like top, bottom, versatile. The expression of these preferences often invites discomfort, scolding, shame, et cetera. I get it. This is a very sensitive topic. People have different levels of exposure to that, but I'm hopeful that in the future when people express their sex preferences, it will be seen as something that's normal and accepted.
Something that, sure, is a feature or field included on straight apps, too. Other people still see Scruff as a hookup app that's somehow illicit or doing something out of the norm, especially because of features like that. Scruff is not illicit. Wanting to have sex is not something out of the norm.
I'm hopeful that in the future that stigma or that cloud that kind of hangs over apps that cater to the gay community will have dissipated.
Kaitlyn: Yeah. This really gets to the thesis of our show. What you're saying here is that designing this type of app with these sets of features almost tells people, "No, you're not being weird or gross by wanting to express this about yourself. Lots of people want this and that's why this exists." The same thing with an app that would sort your nudes out of your camera roll. That's a company saying, "Lots of people have nudes in their camera roll, enough for us to do this," or whatever. Not that I need like a corporation to tell me that my sexual behavior is okay. But it really does seem like the little bonus implied in these apps that have it.
Ashley: Yeah, it brings it into the popular conscience. It's just like, "Oh, this is something that not just I would want to do, or think about doing, but product designers, people out there who are creating ways to express ourselves are giving us those options and are thinking about it, too." That's really cool.
Kaitlyn: And a lot of the paranoia just comes from the normal fear of being vulnerable. The paranoia about sharing a nude photo is not so different from the general fear of just being naked in front of somebody or whatever.
Ashley: Yeah. Well, Eric, thank you so much for coming on the show. You've really been a great interview and taught us so much.
Thank you. Thanks for having me.



Google’s Files Go — the app that helps Android users free up space, find files quickly, and share files offline with people close by — is out of beta and available globally. Google also announced a suite of new features and apps today that are tailored for India, alongside the launch of Android Oreo Go edition for low-end phones with less than 1GB of RAM.
Similar to Apple’s AirDrop, Files Go lets you transfer files directly between devices (at speeds up to 125Mbps) without it costing mobile data, so long as both devices have the app installed. And by using the company’s mobile vision technology, the app suggests which files users should delete like unused apps, duplicate files, low resolution videos, and memes. Google previously launched a beta version back in November. Files Go is built for Go edition devices, but the app works with any Android devices running Lollipop (5.0) or higher. Google says the average person is saving around 1GB of space by using it.
Another newish app is Google Go, a polished version of Search Lite that does basic Google Search with a simple, tappable interface that’s less than 5MB in size. It’s designed to be easy to use and load quickly, even on patchy connections. The search results in the app are optimized to save up to 40 percent on data and users can easily switch between languages in the results. Google also announced other features, including Google Assistant on JioPhone, a “two-wheeler” mode in Maps that shows shortcuts for motorcycles and scooters that aren’t accessible to cars, and a new customized way to pay bills in its Tez app.
India has more than 400 million internet users, and Google is increasingly looking to Asia as more and more users from developing markets in that region come online. Google notes that though these features are India-first, they aren’t just useful to people in India, but help the company to build better products for everyone.


Rights clearance startup Dubset has partnered with the indie distribution company Merlin, in a move that will grow Dubset’s music library, Billboard reports. This means rights holders represented by Merlin will earn royalties when Dubset’s MixSCAN technology recognizes one of their songs in a DJ mix. It also allows artists to legally clear samples from Merlin’s rights holders through Dubset’s MixBANK.
Dubset claims it will make clearing samples easier for artists, while making sure rights holders receive their fair share of royalties from those samples. After a DJ or producer uploads a track to the MixBANK platform, Dubset clears the track for distribution on streaming services like Spotify and Apple Music. Dubset also splits the royalties between DJs who sample certain tracks and the tracks’ rights holders.
Merlin’s members include popular indie labels like Sub Pop, Warp, Epitaph, and Mad Decent. "Mix culture has always accounted for a significant portion of online consumption, and Merlin's membership represents a wide range of artists at the core of this culture," Merlin CEO Charles Caldas told Billboard.
This past summer, Sony Music became the first major label to agree to a deal with Dubset, allowing its artists to monetize tracks that are used in DJ sets and bootlegs.
As Billboard points out, Sony is still the only major label so far to have made such a deal, but Dubset is apparently working with Universal Music Group and Warner on similar agreements.


Tim Kendall, Pinterest’s president and its most important business executive, is leaving the company at the end of the year.
Kendall, who has been with Pinterest more than five years and oversees all of the company’s advertising products, sales and marketing efforts, is leaving to start his own company in the health care space. The move was announced internally Thursday morning.
Jon Alferness, a former Google executive who joined Pinterest this summer to lead ad products, is taking over Kendall’s responsibilities. Alferness will report to Pinterest CEO Ben Silbermann, and Kendall will stay in touch with the company in an advisory role.
“Tim has made important contributions to Pinterest and we are pleased that he will continue to serve as an advisor to the company,” a spokesperson wrote as part of a statement provided to Recode. “Jon Alferness, Senior Vice President for Ads and Commerce, will now lead the world-class team driving our rapidly growing ads business.”
Kendall’s loss is a big one for Pinterest. Not only did Kendall oversee the company’s entire business operation, but multiple sources familiar with the company expect Pinterest to begin the IPO process sometime in 2018. Kendall would have been a public face for Pinterest’s business during this process, responsible for pitching the company to bankers and investors alongside Silbermann and CFO Todd Morgenfeld.
But that is, in part, why Kendall is leaving now, according to a source familiar with his decision. The closer Pinterest gets to an IPO, and the deeper it gets into conversations with potential partners in that process, the harder it would have been for him to leave.
Plus, Kendall will still benefit financially from an IPO even if he’s not working at the company. He’s been at Pinterest almost six years, which means he’s already vested whatever early stock package he received. Those packages typically vest after four years.
Related
Kendall, who worked at pre-IPO Facebook for more than four years before joining Pinterest, has long had an interest in starting something on his own. He’s a bit of a health nut, especially when it comes to mental health. He takes daily ice baths, for example, for physical rejuvenation but also for the mental clarity he says comes from the shockingly cold water. He also refuses to look at his phone during meetings, and forbids others from doing the same.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, then, his new startup will focus on fighting device addictions, like an obsession with a phone or laptop, and the health concerns that come with them, according to a source.
It’s unclear what Kendall’s departure will mean for Pinterest’s business long term. The company was targeting more than $500 million in revenue this year, up from roughly $300 million in 2016. Investors will want to see that growth continue when the company starts the IPO process.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.


The iPhone X came out almost a month ago, and now one of the most anticipated app updates has finally arrived for the new phone: Google has updated Maps for the iPhone X’s screen.
The sprawling maps do look pretty nice on the new iPhone, although Google may need to rethink its UI a bit for the taller screen. The company took a few extra weeks for what should have been a day one update, but it didn’t use that time to change any of the basic interfaces for the new phone. That means that the search bar is much higher up than on the older version of the app, and the hamburger menu that opens up the left pane for additional options is practically unreachable with one hand now.
Still, it’s better than nothing, I guess. The update is available now from the iOS App Store.


Last year, the company behind the Unity game engine released Adam, a proof-of-concept short film designed to show off its cinematic creation tools. It doesn’t have much of a story: it’s just a robot escaping a prison. But Unity Technologies earned enough of a response to justify developing the story into something bigger, and its representatives turned to Neill Blomkamp’s Oats Studios.
Blomkamp, the writer-director of Elysium and District 9, launched Oats earlier this year as an experiment. He wanted to develop his film ideas without waiting years for the attention and resources of a typical Hollywood studio. Earlier this summer, he released a series of videos — Rakka, Firebase, and Zygote — along with several other shorter films, all of which could potentially be developed into more extensive projects down the road. Meanwhile, Unity unveiled a new version of Cinemachine, software that lets creators direct their own CG short films. Cinemachine is designed to make minute adjustments in colors, lighting, shadows, and camera placement, all while rendering the graphics in real time.
Sylvio Drouin, Unity’s Head of Labs, says work began on the first Adam film four years ago. People in the company anticipated that some elements of the film and gaming industry would merge, he says, and realized it was “time to start working on making the Unity engine and editor compatible with film technology.”
Adam was part of that effort, says Isabelle Riva, head of the company’s Made with Unity division. She says the company’s philosophy is to allow teams to innovate and come up with projects to test out the graphics engine on their own, rather than giving them a top-down mandate. Most teams move on to other challenges, but in Adam’s case, “we thought it was a potential IP, because the response was so strong.” She says the team “thought ‘wow, maybe this story needs to continue.’”
Blomkamp says Unity got in touch with him while he was working on his three Oats tentpole films. Oats’ staff had seen Adam, and were intrigued by the real-time rendering and the world Unity came up with. Unity handed the project over to Blomkamp, who wrote a story bible about Adam and his world. From there, Oats used Cinemachine to produce a pair of short films that build off the original 2016 film: Adam: The Mirror, and Adam: The Prophet.
The original Adam introduces the title character, a prisoner who appears to have been uploaded into a robotic body. He’s awoken and released along with his fellow prisoners. They’re greeted by two mysterious robots who erase their records and lead them off into the desert. Adam: The Mirror picks up right after, following the former prisoners as they’re brought to a safehouse. There, their rescuer tells them that they used to be part of something called The Consortium, which wiped their minds. The reason behind their imprisonment is unknown, but they meet with The Mirror, an individual who can read who they used to be, and describe their histories and crimes. Adam, it turns out, was a political dissident. The film answers some questions left by the first film, but like Oats’ other shorts, it illustrates a broad world that hints at a much larger potential story to come.
Unity recently screened Adam: The Mirror as part of its Unite Austin 2017 Keynote, and Adam: The Prophet will appear at some point this fall.
Chris Harvey, Oats Studios’ VFX Supervisor, explains that the main appeal of Unity’s engine is the real-time rendering, which lets filmmakers adjust on the fly. “Literally, you could put a hat [on Adam], hit play, and watch the film with that,” he says. “
The advantage for Oats is that the software helped streamline the studio’s filmmaking efforts. “The biggest thing for me was the cameras,” Blomkamp says. “If you’re working live-action, you have no choice but to work with what you shot six months earlier.” And if a shot comes across badly, directors are stuck with the results, unless they have the time and resources to go back and reshoot. With Unity, Blomkamp explains, he can make shot adjustments immediately. In this particular short film, he says Oats started the film with harsh overhead lighting, but later changed the position of the sun, which led to softer, more appealing visuals.
But what stands out about this short film is that it’s such a visible jump from technical demo to entertainment property. While the short film is ultimately an experiment, it fits alongside the other films Oats released earlier this summer as snippets of a much larger world. Whatever the future holds for Adam and his fellow escaped prisoners, there are clearly plenty of places Blomkamp can take this story.
Oats Studios released a third installment on November 30th, which shows off a new facet of the world: a cult of human survivors who are seemingly immune to the toxic environment, and are hellbent on destroying the robotic bodies that The Consortium created. Like the rest of the studio’s films, it shows off a small part of a much larger world, one that could be ripe for a larger film down the road.
Update November 30th, 2:50 PM ET:  Article has been updated to add third Adam short.


Warning: Spoilers ahead for the end of Pixar’s new film Coco.
Pixar’s new animated movie Coco follows a boy named Miguel on an accidental journey through the Land of the Dead. He befriends a dead man named Hector who desperately wants his living daughter Coco to remember him. But Coco is very old, and her memory is fading. She spends her scenes sitting still, lost in thought, unable to identify members of her own family.
When Miguel returns to the land of the living, he plays Coco a song her father wrote for her and sang to her often when she was a child. The music revives Coco, and she happily sings along with Miguel. She regains her ability to speak and recognize her daughter, and she speaks cogently to her gathered family about her childhood. Even in a film where skeletons sing and dance in a neon afterlife, it’s a magical scene in two ways: it’s moving and emotional, and it’s hard to accept as realistic. But while the degree of Coco’s recovery is unlikely, experts say Coco actually gets a lot of things right about memory and music.
Coco’s memory loss looks like the result of dementia, a series of brain changes that make it harder to think, remember, communicate, and function. Dementia affects 47 million people worldwide, and although the movie never names it specifically, Alzheimer’s disease is the most common cause for people over age 65. It’s a progressive disease that eats away at memory and self-identity. But there are hints that musical memories are spared, which has led to a debate about how common this is, and how music could be harnessed to help patients with dementia.
“In the healthy brain, music is a very, very vivid way of reanimating memories,” says Jason Warren, a professor of neurology at University College London. “But it’s not clear in dementia when you have a damaged system, whether it would bring back reminiscence and familiarity of the experience, or whether it would actually bring back the details.”
There are hints from case reports and anecdotes that it could — like the story that inspired University of Amsterdam graduate student Joern-Henrik Jacobsen. Like Coco, the grandmother of Jacobsen’s partner had serious dementia and could barely recognize her family, Jacobsen says. But she could remember songs. “If you would just start singing children’s songs with her, she would just start to sing along,” he says.
A few small observational studies back up Jacobsen’s experience. One case report describes a piano player with Alzheimer’s who could finish a song if someone started it for him. But other “name-that-tune”-style studies designed to figure out whether Alzheimer’s patients could still remember music have had mixed results. That may be in part because the disease can make it harder for people to remember a song’s name, even if the melody is familiar.
There’s another challenge, too: there are multiple types of musical memory, and not all studies investigate the same one. There’s the memory of events from your life: a kind of mental time-travel back to important moments, like a specific recital or concert. There are also more general memories that make up a person’s self-knowledge, like when Coco recalls that she used to sing that particular song with her father. And there are also motor memories about how to perform certain tasks, like, in Coco’s case, singing a song. That’s the part of Coco’s memory that Warren thinks is most likely to be restored by music. “The Pixar plot probably has a grain of scientific truth,” he says.
That’s supported by Jacobsen’s brain-imaging research, published in 2015 in the journal Brain. The study’s findings are still early and correlative, but they suggest that brain regions involved in making predictions and planning a sequence of movements are important for music memory. These regions also appear relatively functional in patients with Alzheimer’s, the study says. “That makes a lot of sense if you think about a piece of music as some sort of sequence of movements,” Jacobsen says.
Coco’s recollection that she sang the song with her father is also borderline plausible, Warren says — memories of parents are powerful. But her renewed ability to speak and recognize her family members is less so. “It’s asking an awful lot of any stimulus, including music, to repair degenerating brain tissue,” he says. “It’s up against this enormous progression of disease.”
Renaud La Joie, a postdoctoral scientist at the University of California San Francisco’s Memory and Aging Center, agrees. “They’re not going to recover language,” he says. But until there’s a cure, music therapy does seem to help boost patients’ moods, a recent study of studies called a metanalysis shows. “You can see signs, sometimes faces changing, people smiling,” La Joie says.
Coco’s clear happiness to be singing with her great-grandson is something Coco got very right. But La Joie appreciated one thing about the movie that’s more important than accuracy: it showed a person with dementia approaching the end of her life with dignity and surrounded by love. “I thought it was beautiful the way it was depicted in the movie, that she was being respected by her family,” La Joie says. “This is something we don’t get to see enough in media, or the movies.”


After a computer glitch resulted in thousands of American Airlines flights scheduled without pilots during the busy holiday travel season, the carrier says it’s scrambling to respond.
American says that out of 200,000 flights scheduled during the month of December, “only a few hundred” still currently lack pilot assignments. “That number of open flights continues to decrease thanks to our pilots who are stepping up to the plate and picking up trips to ensure customers are taken care of,” the airlines said in a statement.
Yesterday, it was first revealed that a computer glitch in the system that bids for pilots’ time off based on seniority resulted in thousands of pilots erroneously receiving vacation during the week of Christmas. The glitch threatened to leave an estimated 15,000 flights without pilot assignments, and hundreds of thousands of passengers stuck on the ground during one of the busiest travel weeks of the year.
American says it’s confidant it will find pilots for the remaining flights that still lack someone in the cockpit. “[W]e have more reserve pilots on hand in December than normal months and they provide us with the ability to fly many of the trips that are currently uncovered,” the company stated. “We have not canceled any scheduled flights in December and will continue to work to ensure both our pilots and our customers are cared for.”


SiriusXM Radio has updated its iOS app today, adding CarPlay support, 9to5Mac reports. Now, Apple’s CarPlay users can listen to the major streaming service while on the road, including all channels and on-demand episodes.
Only BMWs have wireless CarPlay support, however, and owners of any other car will need to use wired CarPlay receivers. To run CarPlay, users can retrofit their cars with aftermarket receivers like Alpine’s wireless receiver, the iLX-107. The receiver supports CarPlay through Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and has a 7-inch touchscreen with access to all of Apple’s apps.
SiriusXM Radio users can also swipe to tune channels up and down as part of the update. The app is available for download from the App Store now.


Taylor Swift fans in Australia and the Philippines have tweeted screenshots showing that her new album, Reputation — released on November 10th — is now available to stream on Spotify and Apple Music in their respective countries.
Thus far, if you wanted to hear Swift’s sixth studio album you had to purchase a digital download or trek to Target and pick up a physical copy along with a very odd magazine. On November 7th, Bloomberg reported that the album wouldn’t be available on any streaming services for at least its first week, and that services were still negotiating with Swift’s team.
The full album is currently listed on Spotify in the US, with non-singles greyed out. According to a post on Swift’s Instagram account, the full album will go live at midnight tonight.
Swift’s first five albums were added to Spotify in June after a three-year absence and about a dozen conflicting public statements by Swift about the ethics of streaming services. She didn’t comment on her decision to return to Spotify. However, the move came shortly after Universal Music Group negotiated a contract with the platform that allowed artists to keep new albums off of the free, ad-supported tier, and exclusive to the premium tier for two weeks after their initial release.
Clearly Swift’s terms were different. Assuming Reputation arrives on streaming services tonight, it will be a full three weeks after its initial release. We’ve reached out to Spotify and Apple Music and will update if we hear back.
Update, 6:58PM ET: The story has been updated with a link to Swift’s Instagram post confirming the midnight release time.


Crowdfunding service GoFundMe is dropping the 5 percent fee that it collects from personal campaigns within the US today, adding an optional donation option in its stead. TechCrunch reports that GoFundMe timed this change around the holiday season, and that the company won’t say whether it’s a temporary or permanent decision. Payment processors still take 2.9 percent, but users can keep the rest of their funds. Organized charities and people outside the US will be paying the standard 5 percent, along with processing fees.
A GoFundMe spokesperson told TechCrunch that the company will “be closely monitoring our community’s success with the new structure and evaluating as needed.” It’s following a similar move by Facebook, which announced yesterday that it would drop a 5 percent fee on donations to nonprofits, although it’s still charging for private fundraisers. The change also brings GoFundMe’s model in line with competitor YouCaring, which makes money off tips and financial support from partners.


Lighting is everything in an environment, as important as the furniture you choose to fill your home with. It is, as seasoned selfie-takers say, critical for establishing a #mood. Italian product design company Digital Habits understands this and has created the Color Swing, an ambient color-detecting lamp that can change its own light to match in real time.
The video above demonstrates the lamp shifting its light to match the two colors it’s swinging between: a red plate placed underneath, and a yellow car that slides into frame. The Color Swing works with an IR sensor at the bottom that detects the color of whatever is below it. The technology isn’t new. You can actually build your own color-sensing lamp with this $8 Adafruit RGB color sensor, and follow along with plenty of Arduino tutorials online. But look how cool and sleek its product video is! Think of the selfies!
At the moment, ColorSwing is just a prototype, with “no plans to put it in production. Let's say it is an experiment with no specific practical applications,” the company told The Verge in an email. That’s a bummer, but if you don’t care much for premium Italian design, Amazon sells this hilarious ColorUp “magic color sensing lamp” for $99.


Starting today, Google Assistant can help you find local services, like an electrician or handyman. All you have to do is say “OK Google” to Assistant on your phone or Google Home, followed by a prompt to find the particular service you’re interested in.
In the below example, saying “OK Google, find me a plumber” starts Assistant’s hunt, displaying some follow-up questions to hone in exactly the type of service you need, like repairing a faucet or installing a garbage disposal. From there, Assistant asks if you’d like a call from a service, or if you’d like to browse options in your area.
The feature will be rolling out in the US over the next week. Google says Assistant will recommend businesses that have been pre-screened by Google, HomeAdvisor, and other companies, so there’s some level of comfort knowing you’re hiring workers in good standing. If you live in a city that doesn’t have pre-screened businesses, Assistant will still recommend nearby results.


Scallops, hardly the most complex of creatures, have intricate eyes that work like telescopes, say researchers. They hope this discovery can one day help us make our own telescopes more powerful.
For a paper published today in the journal Science, researchers used a few different microscope techniques to get a detailed view of how the king scallop, or Pecten maximus, is able to see. The scallop has 200 tiny eyes lining its mantle, or outside edge.
Each of these eyes contains tiny mirrors, which is different from how most animals, including humans, see. Our eyes use lenses (the cornea) that focus and bend the light passing through it. The light is focused into the retina, or the light-sensitive tissue layer at the back of the eye.
But scallop eyes, and powerful telescopes, use mirrors instead. Mirrors don't focus light but instead reflect it, which has a few advantages. Lenses can only deal with certain wavelengths of light, but mirrors can gather more types, and thus more information. Lenses are more likely to have engineering and design problems, which will make images unclear. And, at least for telescopes, it’s easier and cheaper to make a large mirror than a large lens, because lenses can be heavy and expensive.
We knew about the mirrors before, but we didn’t know just how they were put together. The scallop’s tiny mirrors are made from 20 to 30 layers of crystals, and the layers themselves are made of closely tiled crystal plates, like a mosaic. Each mirror is carefully calibrated to reflect the right wavelength. Together, it makes the picture clearer, and with its 200 eyes and a double-layered retina, scallop can see peripheral and central pictures at the same time.
The scallop is far from the only creature that has something to teach us about design. Lobster eyes, for example, can help us design better ways to see in low light. So don’t write off the scallop on your plate. Its eyes are mini versions of some of the most powerful telescopes.


When paleontologist Alexander Kellner first saw the 35-square-foot block of sandstone filled with pterosaur fossils, he couldn’t believe his eyes. “I was just speechless,” he says. That was in 2015, at the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology in Beijing. Now, two years later, that 120-million-year-old block of fossilized sand has yielded 215 pterosaur eggs, 16 of which still have embryos inside. The unprecedented discovery can help us understand how pterosaurs laid their eggs, how those eggs developed, and even how pterosaur parents cared for their young.
The batch of eggs, described in a study published today in Science, confirms what scientists had suspected: pterosaurs laid soft-shell eggs like today’s lizards, rather than hard-shell eggs like birds. It also shows that flocks of pterosaurs may have nested together, laying their eggs relatively close to each other and returning to nest in the same spots over time. Based on the development of certain embryos, the researchers also think that newborn pterosaurs couldn’t fly, which suggests that parents had to take care of them. But several experts disagree about the stage the embryos were in, which has implications about how pterosaurs behaved.
“There’s a real danger that you can over-interpret the evidence,” says Charles Deeming, principal lecturer at the University of Lincoln, who’s researched pterosaur eggs and was not involved in this study.
But Deeming and others agree that the block of fossilized eggs is an amazing find that will deepen our understanding of some of the most peculiar animals to ever inhabit our planet. “I’ve been 35 years in paleontology and seen a lot of great fossils. But this is certainly one of the three or five most interesting and probably most important specimens I’ve ever seen,” says pterosaur expert David Unwin, who was not involved in the research. “It’s absolutely astounding.”
Pterosaurs were flying reptiles that lived — and went extinct — alongside dinosaurs. There were several pterosaur species of various sizes: some were as big as crop dusters, while others were as small as sparrows. The pterosaur fossils in question, found in northwestern China, belong to a species called Hamipterus tianshanensis: they had a wingspan of up to 11 feet, head crests, and long teeth to catch fish. Because pterosaurs had thin bones, optimized for flight, not many fossils remain. Finding eggs is even harder: only a handful of pterosaur eggs have been discovered — and only three of these eggs contain fossilized embryos, Unwin says.
That’s why that 35-square-foot block of sandstone filled with relatively well-preserved eggs and embryos, as well as pterosaur bones, is so extraordinary. “This was really an amazing find,” Kellner tells The Verge. “I never thought of finding something like that.” The cluster of eggs and bones formed when powerful storms swept through the area, flooding rivers. The flood snatched the eggs from their nests, and carried them to a spot where they piled up, eventually fossilizing, Kellner says. The sandstone block has eight layers, each corresponding to a different storm event that hit the area through time. Each layer has pterosaur bones, and four also have eggs.
Kellner and his colleagues scanned the eggs and found that the shells were soft and parchment-like — similar to the eggs of today’s lizards and some turtles. These animals bury their eggs instead of incubating them, like birds do, which suggests that pterosaurs likely did the same. Scientists think that each female pterosaur probably laid only two eggs at a time, so Kellner says that all the eggs in the sandstone block were probably laid by tens of pterosaurs at a spot nearby. If that’s true, it means pterosaurs laid their eggs together, similar to penguins. Because the sandstone block also has several layers containing eggs, that suggests that the flying reptiles returned to the same spot to lay their eggs over time, Kellner says.
Even more surprising clues about pterosaurs come from the embryos found inside the eggs: some of these embryos were in the late stage of development, the researchers say. In these embryos, one wing bone called the humerus wasn’t completely formed, while a leg bone called the femur was. That suggests that newborn pterosaurs could walk around but couldn’t fly, Kellner says. And if that’s case, their parents probably had to look after them.
Some researchers disagree with this interpretation, saying that the embryos were likely weeks or even months from hatching. Unwin says that three other late-stage embryos found elsewhere in China and Argentina had well-developed skeletons, including well-formed wing bones. “They look like hatchlings except they’re inside an egg,” Unwin says. “In terms of proportions, they look very much like they’re ready to go.” Instead, the embryos described in today’s study were likely halfway through development, Unwin says, meaning that they still had time to form their wings. If that’s the case, then the interpretation that young pterosaurs couldn’t fly and parents had to take care of them doesn’t stand. But even if hatchlings couldn’t fly, that doesn’t necessarily mean that the parents had to look after them, Unwin says. Modern reptiles that bury their eggs, like turtles, generally don’t come back to their eggs when they hatch. The hatchlings just take care of themselves.
“It is important to be cautious and not to infer too many aspects of the life history of Hamipterus from what remains a limited data set,” Deeming writes in an article published alongside the Science paper.
The only way to answer some of these questions is to find even more eggs and embryos — and that may soon happen. Kellner says he and his colleagues in China intend to go back to the site where the eggs were excavated, and look for more fossils. “The exciting thing is that there are more discoveries to come,” Unwin says. “We have a fantastic find, but we have the opportunity to build on that and build a more complete and a more complex picture.”
Ultimately, revealing how pterosaurs lived, behaved, and reproduced adds to our understanding of what life is capable of on our planet — at least, in the past. “Pterosaurs are completely unlike any living animal, so they show us a form of life or a way of life that doesn’t exist anymore,” Unwin says. “We’re fascinated by the idea of aliens from another world but in a sense, pterosaurs and dinosaurs are aliens of this world.”



Remember Vine? The six-second video social media app lived a roller-coaster life, going from small startup to Twitter-owned internet juggernaut to shut down in what felt like the blink of an eye. But there is some good news in the post-Vine darkness we’ve all been living in since Twitter shuttered the service last fall: Vine co-founder Dom Hofmann has announced (on Twitter, of all places) that he’s working on “a follow-up to Vine.”
There’s virtually no information about what Hofmann has in mind. We don’t even know if he means another short-form video app similar to the original Vine, or just some other project that will look to build on the foundation Vine started. Hofmann did say in a follow-up tweet that he’s funding the new project himself outside of his current company (a different mysterious project called Interspace). Hofmann declined to comment about the Vine follow-up beyond his tweets.
i'm going to work on a follow-up to vine. i've been feeling it myself for some time and have seen a lot of tweets, dms, etc.
But if you’ve been sitting with a pang in your heart every time you see the sad, colorless Vine Camera icon on your home screen, at least now there’s some hope that maybe one day in the future, we’ll all be back at it again at Krispy Kreme.


Facebook announced a wider availability of its new Customer Chat service today, which lets businesses talk with users both on their own websites and within Facebook Messenger. Customer Chat is essentially a website plugin that brings the Facebook Messenger experience to any retailer’s website, which lets the customer support representatives then converse with customers as if they were chatting with a friend on Facebook.
Customer Chat saves conversation histories, so a user can go from talking with a rep on a retailer’s website to conversing with them within the Messenger mobile app without restarting a new thread. The service first became available earlier this month when the Facebook Messenger team launched it in private beta. The company now says it’s open to any business as part of an expanded public beta, and its developer page dedicated to Customer Chat details how to install the software development kit.
Of course, Customer Chat’s success hinges on users, who may not be keen on using Facebook Messenger for customer support needs when email and help lines have become the standard method for dealing with a product or order issue. Facebook has long been banking on businesses (and by extension chatbots) as the natural evolution for its chat product, which in September surpassed 1.3 billion monthly active users.
The general idea is that if Facebook Messenger can absorb even more of the communication that typically takes place over the phone or with email, the company will continue to tighten its grip on users and prevent rival communication channels from eating away at its dominance. To that end, Facebook has extended many of the same business-friendly features of Messenger to WhatsApp, the other massively popular chat product it owns.
Whether letting businesses slide into your Messenger chats in the app and on Facebook.com will have a large impact on that goal is a bit up in the air. But in the eyes of Facebook leadership, it certainly can’t hurt to make it easier to use Facebook for anything and everything you want to do — whether that’s sending money, making video calls, or badgering a customer support rep for a refund.


Google is offering a new way for Raspberry Pi tinkerers to use its AI tools. It just announced the AIY Vision Kit, which includes a new circuit board and computer vision software that buyers can pair with their own Raspberry Pi computer and camera. (There’s also a cute cardboard box included, along with some supplementary accessories.) The kit costs $44.99 and will ship through Micro Center on December 31st.
The AIY Vision Kit’s software includes three neural network models: one that recognizes a thousand common objects; one that recognizes faces and expressions; and a “a person, cat and dog detector.” Users can train their own models with Google’s TensorFlow machine learning software.
Google touts this as a cheap and simple computer vision system that doesn’t require access to cloud processing, because of the extra processing unit. It suggests several simple uses, including setting up cameras to detect your dog or car. But it also offers more interesting possibilities, like identifying plants and animals with the kit.
This is the second project released through Google’s AIY program, a partnership with Raspberry Pi’s creators. The first was called Voice HAT, and it added microphones that let users issue Google Assistant commands to Raspberry Pi-controlled devices.


Amazon’s business subsidiary, Amazon Web Services, has announced a new initiative to get companies using Alexa in the office. The company imagines that the virtual assistant will help employees launch conference calls, organize room bookings, and even wrangle with their expenses.
With the new scheme, Alexa for Business, companies will be given the tools to manage a fleet of Alexa-enabled devices. Admins will be able to enroll users, enable and disable skills, and connect Alexa to their conferencing equipment. They’ll also be able to build their own apps for the assistant, with Amazon suggesting functions like helping with directions around the office, reporting problems with equipment, and ordering new supplies. Users will also be able to access their company’s apps from home devices, checking what’s on their office calendar and remotely joining meetings.
The office is a big new frontier for Alexa, which has proved to be a surprise hit for Amazon. The device launched in late 2014, and kickstarted a trend for voice-activated devices in the home — a category that now includes Google Home and Apple’s forthcoming HomePod. Amazon has quickly capitalized on its lead in the industry, launching a slew of new Alexa devices, including screen-equipped versions for the kitchen and bedroom. The company doesn’t release sales figures for Echo devices, but Morgan Stanley estimates that the company has sold some 11 million units.
In a talk announcing Alexa for Business at Amazon’s re:Invent conference today, the company’s CTO Werner Vogels described voice interfaces as the future of computer interfaces. “It’s a natural way of interacting with your systems,” said Vogels. “You ask your environment to give you the right answer.” He described voice as “the first disruption” driven by the contemporary boom in artificial intelligence, particular deep learning.
As well as letting companies build their own tools for Alexa, Amazon is working with other popular enterprise firms, including Concur Solutions, SAP SuccessFactors, and Salesforce. It’s also partnering with office space startup WeWork, which is experimenting with installing Echo devices in its workspaces. If other companies follow suit, it would be a whole new domain for Alexa — and Amazon — to master.


Google is considering bringing Nest back into its family after the two became separate brands in 2015 under holding company Alphabet, people familiar with the matter told the Wall Street Journal. Nest could potentially rejoin Google’s hardware team and the two could make more smart home products that rival Amazon’s lineup of Alexa devices.
The two are already pretty integrated — Google Home users can control Nest thermostats and pull up Nest Cam streams through voice command, the result of a few dozen Nest developers being brought on the Google team last year. Now these rumored talks could indicate a deeper partnership in the future that would bring all of Nest’s 1,000 employees onto Google’s team.
Google initially bought Nest in 2014 for $3.2 billion, but the two went their separate ways a year later as Alphabet split up some of its units as individual brands. Both experienced some overlap, however, as marketing teams on both brands had to call the same retailers to stock their goods, a former Nest manager told the WSJ.
Google declined to comment.


FCC chairman Ajit Pai issued a statement today condemning a death threat allegedly directed to a congressman over net neutrality policy.
Earlier this week, federal prosecutors issued a criminal complaint against Syracuse man Patrick D. Angelo, who was arrested yesterday. The complaint alleges that Angelo left a voicemail last month threatening Rep. John Katko (R-NY) in which he said, “if you don’t support net neutrality, I will find you and your family and I will kill… you… all. Do you understand? I will literally find all… of… you and your progeny and just wipe you from the face of the earth.”
In the statement released today, Pai said he “condemn[ed] in the strongest possible terms any attempts to intimidate government officials with violent threats, and in particular, efforts to target their families.”
The FCC is scheduled to vote next month on its controversial plan to roll back net neutrality protections. Ahead of the vote, which is expected to pass through the commission on party lines, Pai and others have been met with protests. This week, cardboard signs appeared with the names of Pai’s children outside his home, questioning what kind of world they would “inherit.” Pai said in a Fox & Friends interview that protestors had crossed a line with the signs and “should stop harassing us at our homes.”
In statements this week, Pai has lamented the heated discourse around net neutrality policy, saying in remarks “that vitriol in social media seems to suggest that America is more divided than ever.” But he has also used his platform to criticize opponents of his deregulatory effort: in a speech this week, he derided the “out-sized influence” of celebrities and a “cloak” of consumer advocacy he says is used by tech companies to influence the debate.




Apple is designing its own power management chips for iPhones, and plans to stop relying on its current supplier Dialog Semiconductor, anonymous sources told Nikkei Asian Review.
One anonymous source said: “Based on Apple's current plan, they are set to replace around half of its power management chips to go into iPhones by itself, starting next year.” Another person said the chips might not be ready until 2019.
Power management chips handle tasks like iPhone charging, battery life management, and energy consumption. Apple’s new chips will be the “most advanced” and have better power monitoring capabilities than rivals, the sources said, which will presumably improve battery life. The chips are going to continue to be manufactured by Taiwan Semiconductor, the world’s biggest chipmaker, which also makes Dialog’s chips.
Shares for Dialog Semiconductor are down 17 percent following the news. The company designed chips for iPhones, iPads, and Apple Watches, and relied on Apple for 74 percent of its revenue last year.
Apple has been cutting out suppliers over the past year and producing more and more parts in house, like designing its own graphics chips and severing ties with its former graphics partner Imagination Technologies back in April. (Imagination then sued Apple for taking what it claimed to be proprietary graphics chip designs.) It’s a trend that’s cutting costs for Apple and streamlining the process, while being detrimental to old business partners.
We’ve reached out to Apple for comment.
Update November 30th 5:36PM ET: This article’s headline was updated to clarify that Apple is designing chips, not making them.


Google is considering bringing Nest back into its family after the two became separate brands in 2015 under holding company Alphabet, people familiar with the matter told the Wall Street Journal. Nest could potentially rejoin Google’s hardware team and the two could make more smart home products that rival Amazon’s lineup of Alexa devices.
The two are already pretty integrated — Google Home users can control Nest thermostats and pull up Nest Cam streams through voice command, the result of a few dozen Nest developers being brought on the Google team last year. Now these rumored talks could indicate a deeper partnership in the future that would bring all of Nest’s 1,000 employees onto Google’s team.
Google initially bought Nest in 2014 for $3.2 billion, but the two went their separate ways a year later as Alphabet split up some of its units as individual brands. Both experienced some overlap, however, as marketing teams on both brands had to call the same retailers to stock their goods, a former Nest manager told the WSJ.
Google declined to comment.


FCC chairman Ajit Pai issued a statement today condemning a death threat allegedly directed to a congressman over net neutrality policy.
Earlier this week, federal prosecutors issued a criminal complaint against Syracuse man Patrick D. Angelo, who was arrested yesterday. The complaint alleges that Angelo left a voicemail last month threatening Rep. John Katko (R-NY) in which he said, “if you don’t support net neutrality, I will find you and your family and I will kill… you… all. Do you understand? I will literally find all… of… you and your progeny and just wipe you from the face of the earth.”
In the statement released today, Pai said he “condemn[ed] in the strongest possible terms any attempts to intimidate government officials with violent threats, and in particular, efforts to target their families.”
The FCC is scheduled to vote next month on its controversial plan to roll back net neutrality protections. Ahead of the vote, which is expected to pass through the commission on party lines, Pai and others have been met with protests. This week, cardboard signs appeared with the names of Pai’s children outside his home, questioning what kind of world they would “inherit.” Pai said in a Fox & Friends interview that protestors had crossed a line with the signs and “should stop harassing us at our homes.”
In statements this week, Pai has lamented the heated discourse around net neutrality policy, saying in remarks “that vitriol in social media seems to suggest that America is more divided than ever.” But he has also used his platform to criticize opponents of his deregulatory effort: in a speech this week, he derided the “out-sized influence” of celebrities and a “cloak” of consumer advocacy he says is used by tech companies to influence the debate.




Apple is designing its own power management chips for iPhones, and plans to stop relying on its current supplier Dialog Semiconductor, anonymous sources told Nikkei Asian Review.
One anonymous source said: “Based on Apple's current plan, they are set to replace around half of its power management chips to go into iPhones by itself, starting next year.” Another person said the chips might not be ready until 2019.
Power management chips handle tasks like iPhone charging, battery life management, and energy consumption. Apple’s new chips will be the “most advanced” and have better power monitoring capabilities than rivals, the sources said, which will presumably improve battery life. The chips are going to continue to be manufactured by Taiwan Semiconductor, the world’s biggest chipmaker, which also makes Dialog’s chips.
Shares for Dialog Semiconductor are down 17 percent following the news. The company designed chips for iPhones, iPads, and Apple Watches, and relied on Apple for 74 percent of its revenue last year.
Apple has been cutting out suppliers over the past year and producing more and more parts in house, like designing its own graphics chips and severing ties with its former graphics partner Imagination Technologies back in April. (Imagination then sued Apple for taking what it claimed to be proprietary graphics chip designs.) It’s a trend that’s cutting costs for Apple and streamlining the process, while being detrimental to old business partners.
We’ve reached out to Apple for comment.
Update November 30th 5:36PM ET: This article’s headline was updated to clarify that Apple is designing chips, not making them.


Mr. Robot is back, and the C Y B E R is back, too. The show takes a special interest in showing off the details that usually get glossed over, often drawing on real hacks and real cybersecurity problems. So after every episode, I’ll be breaking down who got hacked, how, and with what. It turns out, there’s a lot more to each one than you can see on-screen.
This episode was a bit of a breather after last week’s doomfest. Elliot goes on a semi-suicidal trip to the ocean, meets a little kid, watches Back to the Future, and recovers his will to live. Along the way, we get a peek at the steady creep of martial law and general chaos on the Robot universe, with a general curfew and Children of Men-style checkpoints in the background. It’s getting bad out there!
But as I’ve said before, this isn’t the Thoughtful Engagement With Islamic Culture Report; it’s the Hack Report. So for the purposes of this column, I’m going to take a look at what Elliot does in the very beginning of the episode: closing his files on Trenton and Mobley before microwaving his gear in a general reset. We’ve seen him do this before, particularly in season 1 as he was preparing for his big move against Evil Corp, but it’s worth walking through exactly what’s happening here and why it’s such an effective way to wipe his system clean.
Like any successful backup system, there are two steps: copying the data you need to a save place, and then flaming it out everywhere else.
First, we see Elliot copying all his data on Trenton and Mobley onto dummy CDs. We even get their real names: Shama Biswas and Sunil Markesh. Shama / Trenton gets Bruce Springsteen’s Magic, while Sunil / Mobley gets a CD of DJ Mobley himself.
We’ve seen Elliot do this routine before, but it’s a really clever way to disguise data, in part because no one searching his apartment is going to think of listening to his CDs. Even if they did, what would they hear? Compressed audio doesn’t take up that much of a CD’s storage capacity, so it’s easy to make a mixed mode CD that would actually play the Springsteen album (or a compressed version of it) and still store hundreds of Mb of data in the background. It’s hard to tell from this episode if that’s exactly what Elliot’s doing this time around, but it’s one of the reasons the whole setup is so clever.
The actual albums seem to be a bit of an Easter egg. Is Speaking in Tongues a comment on Elliot’s relationship with Krista? You can dig through more examples in the fan communities. There’s even a Spotify playlist, although it’s missing some of the more recent examples.
Now, it’s time to smash things up. As soon as he’s done with the backups, we see Elliot crack open his computer case, pull a bunch of things out, and methodically destroy them. Specifically, he’s pulling out all the computer’s memory, both the platter hard drive and the flash RAM that sits on the computer’s motherboard. In a couple seconds of screen time, Elliot drills a hole in the computer’s main hard drive, yanks the RAM chips out with a plier, and microwaves them, ensuring no one can ever extract any data again.
As with many things, Elliot is taking this to extremes, but if you’re in charge of making sure a piece of data is absolutely positively erased, this is pretty much what you do. Just deleting files on your computer does almost nothing. It gives the computer permission to overwrite the bits of data, but it doesn’t actually overwrite them, so forensic analysts can usually still reconstruct them when they look at your computer piece by piece. There are more serious ways to erase the data, like formatting the drive or running a zero-fill program, but it’s hard to be sure they’ve worked. The only perfect method is physically destroying the component that houses them, which is exactly what Elliot does.
Drilling is a classic way to destroy a platter-based hard drive, although folks often misunderstand why. Hard drives basically work like vinyl records: there’s a disk inside that spins around and a reader arm that reads it as it passes by. Putting a hole in that platter certainly removes any data that was on that particular circle, but the bigger issue is breaking the enclosure and messing with the platter itself. Drilling through produces a lot of heat and friction in the delicate enclosure. If the disc is warped at all, it won’t spin, which makes it extremely hard to pull any data.
Flash memory is a little trickier, but not much. Solid-state drives are notoriously difficult to erase, in part because they have a limited number of overwrite cycles. But at its heart, the flash chip is just a series of transistor gates, with the state of those gates determining what’s a 1 and what’s a 0. But the radiation from a microwave destroys those gates directly, particularly once the whole thing catches fire. This won’t necessarily work on USB drives or SD cards because the metal enclosure ends up acting as a Faraday Cage — but Elliot is frying raw chips, so there’s nothing to get in the way.
————
That’s all the hacks we’ve got this week! But tune in to the show next week, when we’ll be talking with Grace Gummer, and hopefully have some more hacks to dig into. If there’s anything else you want to see in next week’s report, you can catch us on Reddit or on Twitter at the hashtag #RobotAfterShow. See you next week.
Disclosure: NBC Universal, owner of USA Network, is an investor in Vox Media, The Verge’s parent company. Additionally, we are an independent editorial partner in the Mr. Robot Digital After Show hosted by The Verge.


Apple has launched a new app today that will allow the company to gather irregular heart rhythm data from the Apple Watch’s heart rate sensor. Called the Apple Heart Study app, it will detect irregularities and send notifications to users who may be suffering from atrial fibrillation (AFib).
Apple first mentioned its Heart Study initiative back in September when it launched watchOS 4. The company is partnering with Stanford University on the project. The company plans on using heart rate data to better inform patients, doctors, and researchers of cases of heart irregularity.
“Working alongside the medical community, not only can we inform people of certain health conditions, we also hope to advance discoveries in heart science,” said Jeff Williams, Apple’s chief operating officer, in a statement. The app uses the Apple Watch’s existing technology to measure heart rate through green LED lights flashing hundreds of times per second and photodiodes that detect the amount of blood flowing through the wrists.
Users who participate in the survey will be notified on their iPhone and Watch if an irregular heartbeat is detected and provided a free consultation with a study doctor and an electrocardiogram (EKG) patch for further observation. The app is currently available in the US App Store, and users who want to participate in the study have to be 22 years or older with an Apple Watch Series 1 or later.
Earlier today, the FDA cleared the first medical device accessory for the Apple Watch — AliveCor's KardiaBand electrocardiogram (EKG) reader, a sensor that pairs with an app and can detect abnormal heart rhythm and AFib, too. There are already plenty of apps that flag things like abnormal spikes in heart rates, stress levels, and also analyze the data that’s pushed into Apple’s Health app. Earlier this year, a study showed that the Apple Watch can detect heart irregularity with 97 percent accuracy, which isn’t quite good enough for an official diagnosis, but is still useful as a screening tool.



It’s been a busy year for Nintendo, with the release of the Switch, multiple blockbuster games, and even rumors of an animated movie. Now comes perhaps the biggest surprise of all: a breakfast cereal that doubles as an Amiibo figure.
Called simply Super Mario Cereal, it looks like a fairly standard sugary cereal, complete with marshmallows in the shape of iconic Super Mario items like a 1-up mushroom and newcomer Cappy. But the more interesting aspect is the box itself. It works as an Amiibo, Nintendo’s line of NFC-enabled toys that can interact with games by tapping them on a console. According to Nintendo, tapping the box on your Switch while playing Super Mario Odyssey will unlock extra coins or hearts in the game.
They’re not the most exciting power-ups, and I’m not sure what’s stopping people from bringing their Switch to a grocery store and unlocking lots of coins, but it’s a fun add-on nonetheless. Nintendo says the cereal will start shipping in the US on December 11th.


A new report predicts that by 2030, as many as 800 million jobs could be lost worldwide to automation. The study, compiled by the McKinsey Global Institute, says that advances in AI and robotics will have a drastic effect on everyday working lives, comparable to the shift away from agricultural societies during the Industrial Revolution. In the US alone, between 39 and 73 million jobs stand to be automated — making up around a third of the total workforce.
But, the report also states that as in the past, technology will not be a purely destructive force. New jobs will be created; existing roles will be redefined; and workers will have the opportunity to switch careers. The challenge particular to this generation, say the authors, is managing the transition. Income inequality is likely to grow, possibly leading to political instability; and the individuals who need to retrain for new careers won’t be the young, but middle-aged professionals.
The changes won’t hit everyone equally. Only 5 percent of current occupations stand to be completely automated if today’s cutting-edge technology is widely adopted, while in 60 percent of jobs, one-third of activities will be automated. Quoting a US government commission from the 1960s on the same topic, McKinsey’s researchers summarize: “technology destroys jobs, but not work.” As an example, it examines the effect of the personal computer in the US since 1980, finding that the invention led to the creation of 18.5 million new jobs, even when accounting for jobs lost. (The same might not be true of industrial robots, which earlier reports suggest destroy jobs overall.)
As with previous studies on this topic, there’s much to be said for taking a skeptical view. Economic forecasting is not an exact science, and McKinsey’s researchers are keen to stress that their predictions are just that. The figure of 800 million jobs lost worldwide, for example, is only the most extreme of possible scenarios, and the report also suggests a middle estimate of 400 million jobs.
Nevertheless, this study is one of the most comprehensive in recent years, modeling changes in more than 800 occupations, and taking in some 46 countries, accounting for 90 percent of world GDP. Six nations are also analyzed in detail — the US, China, Germany, Japan, India, and Mexico — with these countries representing a range of economic situations and differently organized workforces.
The report stresses that the effects of automation on work will differ from country to country. Developed economies like the US and Germany are likely to be hit hardest by the coming changes, as higher average wages incentivizes automation. In America, the report predicts that employment in industries like health care will increase, as society copes with an aging population; while rote jobs that involve physical labor (machinist, cooks) or data processing (payroll clerks, data entry) are most at risk of automation.
In developed economies like the US, automation is also likely to lead to increased inequality. High-paying creative and cognitive jobs will be at a premium, while the demand for middle and low-skill occupations will decline. The result, says McKinsey, will be a “two-tiered labor market.” Previous reports have come to the same conclusion, finding that individuals in higher income brackets are more able to adapt to a changing job market, and that social mobility will suffer as a result, as traditional “stepping-stone jobs” (like a clerk working in a law firm) are eliminated.
It’s not all doom and gloom, though, as McKinsey states that the worst effects of this transition can be mitigated if governments take an active role. Michael Chui, the lead author of the report, compared the level of action needed to the Marshall Plan — an American initiative that pumped some $140 billion into Western Europe after WWII, helping countries rebuild and industrialize.
The report uses America’s transition out of agriculture as a historical example, pointing out that the decrease in farming jobs in the US was accompanied by major spending on secondary education and new laws enforcing compulsory attendance. In 1910, only 18 percent of children aged 14 to 17 went to high school; by 1940 this figure was 73 percent. The resulting increase in educated workers helped create a booming manufacturing industry and buoyant middle-class. A similar push is needed today, says McKinsey, yet over the last few decades, spending on labor force training and support has fallen. The conclusion of the report seems to be: automation doesn’t have to be a disaster, but only if politics keeps pace.


Today, Amazon and its partners updated multiple apps in the US, including Bravo, Hulu, and NBC, so that users can control playback with voice commands. You can use the Alexa Voice Remote, an Echo device, or the Fire TV remote app to search, play, pause, rewind, or fast-forward through content from these providers. You can also change the channel. CBS All Access, Showtime, and PlayStation Vue also recently received this functionality.
So, for example, you could say, "Alexa, watch The Handmaid's Tale," or "Alexa, play The Real Housewives of Atlanta." Other less-specific program commands include, "Alexa, fast-forward five minutes," or "Alexa, play from the beginning." Clearly Amazon is working toward a voice-controlled future built around Alexa. I can't wait for a future where we never have to get off the couch or spend extra time hunting around for what we want to watch.


Drake went to a Toronto Raptors game last night at the Air Canada Centre, wore a brown hoodie, and drank a can of pink grapefruit Perrier. I absolutely can’t think of anything less interesting. Can you?
Ah, but Drake knows how to make up for boring circumstances by acting like a total spaz for no reason. Thank goodness. The newest Drake meme is a short video, posted to Instagram by the Raptors’ social media manager, of Drake pouring his Perrier into a cup. Something about the process is distressing to him, and he panics, then calms himself down a little bit, then panics again, then freaks way out, then puts the can down on the floor, then half-grins, then settles into his resting facial expression, which is “sheepish.” I’m guessing he picks the can up and throws it in a trash can on his way out, so his panic is not about being caught littering. In fact, it doesn’t matter what the panic is about. All that matters is that this clip is so nice and funny and low-stakes and you can watch it over and over and repost it and caption it with whatever you want. Please don’t choose anything topical!
When you get called to the principals office... @champagnepapi | #WeTheNorth
A post shared by Toronto Raptors (@raptors) on Nov 29, 2017 at 5:01pm PST
“Why does it feel like it’s been 37 years since we had a Drake meme?” my co-worker Lizzie Plaugic asked in Slack. “Feels like a different life,” she sighed (I imagine).
She’s right. Without looking it up, when do you think the “Hotline Bling” video and its 1 million spinoff tweets, parody videos, and blog posts came out? When did Drake learn Photoshop specifically so he could put a tiny Drake on Rihanna’s shoulder and delight me? When did you first see this GIF?
I guessed “1974.” But in May 2016, on this website, I wrote and published the headline “Drake's SNL monologue about not wanting to be a meme is the all-time biggest lie in American history,” which, oh wow. Oh my goodness. At the time, I could not possibly have imagined all that was to come, but still, I’m embarrassed.
It’s been so long, and the internet has been so bad. We used to argue about Drake sometimes — about whether his latest album was kind of lazy or “called a playlist for no reason” — and now I can’t believe we were so ungrateful. All anybody wants in this life is to look at a warm, familiar face doing something stupid and laugh a little and not feel bad inside. Because he is incredibly famous, Drake can create that experience that for millions of people at the same time, at little cost. Thank you, Drake.
when a chipotle employee catches me putting sprite in my water cup pic.twitter.com/WtATDfVR8o
As I was writing this post, Kelly Ripa informed me and my cat Ghost, “Thursday is the new Friday!” So, in that case, I feel comfortable suggesting that you take about 45 minutes off from whatever you’re trying to accomplish this morning and revisit your favorite Drake memes from a previous life.
Related


Google Home devices can now process and complete two commands at once. As first reported by CNET and independently confirmed by The Verge, Google Home users can ask their device to do multiple things. So, for example, you could say, "Hey, Google, turn on the TV, and what's the weather?" Your TV would turn on, and Google will tell you the weather, too.
You can mix and match these commands by asking for traffic, controlling any of your connected gadgets, or telling the device to play music. These commands don't have to be predefined in the Google Home app as a specific routine. You also cannot ask for three things. The device will tell you it can't handle all three and then seems to pick one command at random to execute.
Amazon rolled out a similar feature for Alexa-equipped devices earlier this month called "routines." Users can define a trigger phrase, like, "Alexa, good morning," and the device will carry out a series of commands. These controls are set up ahead of time through the Alexa companion app, though. Google also plans to roll out routines, but these double commands make for a quick, on-the-fly solution.


Developer FiftyThree is best known for Paper, one of the most iconic drawing apps for the iPad since it was released in 2012. But earlier this year, the company quietly released its second major application: Paste, an incredibly nice-looking slideshow app for the web with deep integration into Slack that looked to redesign the humble slide deck for a modern, team-based, collaborative work environment. And now, Paste is finally making its way to the platform people know FiftyThree for best: the iPad and iPhone.
In many ways, Paste has always felt like it should have an iOS app. The entire app is built around a simple UI for editing slides meant to let users focus on content instead of fiddling with fonts and layouts, with a robust drag-and-drop function for automatically generating content out of images, links, and videos. Add in the Facebook-like reactions and commenting functions that are already a major part of the app, and a mobile version is a natural fit. You can leave those comments directly on a slide in Paste and have them pop up in a Slack room, as well as assign team members from Slack to work on specific slides.
I’ve been able to try out the mobile versions of Paste, and while the iPhone version is probably still best-suited for just viewing slides and leaving feedback for other team members, the iPad version — thanks to iOS 11’s drag-and-drop features — is just as good as the desktop app.
Paste is free to try for a limited time, and costs $8 per month per user, so it’s still likely going to remain an enterprise-focused service for now. And while Paste does look very nice, if you’re team isn’t running everything in Slack, it’s somewhat harder to justify the cost for what is ultimately a very minimalist version of Google Slides.
It would also be nice to see an Android version of Paste somewhere in the future, too. FiftyThree is primarily an iOS developer, but unless you’re working at Apple (in which case, you’re probably using Keynote anyway), chances are you’ve got some Android users on your team that might want access to slide decks, too.
Along with Paste making its way to iOS, FiftyThree is also releasing a massive overhaul of the original Paper app. The new Paper 4 has been completely rebuilt using Apple’s SceneKit framework for better performance, and a new design that harkens back to the original version of the application, but with a optional grid view that makes it easier to see your individual notebooks at a glance.
FiftyThree is also changing the monetization scheme for Paper: the app is free to download, but some features are only available with an optional $5.99 / six months Paper Pro subscription.
The redesigned Paper is also meant to work hand in hand with Paste, allowing for easy sharing of Paper sketches straight into a Paste slideshow, and on iPads running iOS 11, you can even drag and drop sketches straight from a notebook.


If you managed to pick up a Nintendo Switch back when the console launched in March, there’s a good chance you’ve played plenty of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. And by now you may have exhausted much of what the grand Hyrule landscape has to offer — which makes this week’s launch of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 especially timely. Like the previous entries in the series, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is a sprawling role-playing game that melds elements of sci-fi and fantasy into something strange and unique. It’s a world defined by a sense of scale; everything around you seems absolutely gigantic. (Developer Monolith Soft actually worked on Breath of the Wild as well, aiding Nintendo’s EPD team with the open-world design.) It’s a journey that takes dozens of hours to complete.
And while there are plenty of significant differences between Xenoblade and Breath of the Wild, there’s one important aspect that they both share: the thrill of adventure.
In a lot of ways, the two games are actually at opposite ends of the fantasy adventure spectrum. Part of the reason that Breath of the Wild was so beloved was that it challenged many of the genre’s conventions. It was incredibly open, offering little in the way of direction, trusting players to figure things out on their own. You weren’t limited by seemingly arbitrary things like your experience level, and virtually every aspect of the game — from the combat to the cooking — felt like a natural part of the world. This encouraged exploration and experimentation. If you saw an ancient ruin on a distant mountain, you could find a way to get there. If you foraged a strange mushroom in the forest, you could use it to cook new replenishing meals.
Xenoblade Chronicles 2, on the other hand, sticks with many common RPG traditions. The game puts you in the role of a scavenger named Rex, who eventually discovers he has the power to wield a living weapon called Pyra. The two set out on a quest to find a long-fabled paradise for humanity called Elysium, which involves following along a set path. You can take on plentiful side missions, but there isn’t much opportunity to diverge from the main story. Your ability to go places is largely tied to your experience level; if you’re not strong enough, you’ll find yourself quickly wiped out by enemies more powerful than you. Success sometimes comes down to grinding for experience in optional battles.
By role-playing game standards, Xenoblade is on the more complex side. It features an at times confusing array of systems that take a long time to fully understand. The combat can feel strange; characters will attack automatically, with you guiding their placement and unleashing special attacks. It takes some getting used to, and 15 hours into my adventure I was still being subjected to tutorials explaining how to chain together attacks. Similarly, customizing and upgrading the characters on your squad involves a convoluted process with multiple skill trees and a gear system that works differently from most games.
All of this is to say that Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is a game that demands a lot from you. If you don’t pay close attention to the details, you’ll find yourself struggling. But once you get the hang of things, it’s engrossing: the complexities and quirks eventually become second nature, and you realize there’s a depth to the game that’s a lot of fun to delve into. But you need to be willing to put in the time to figure out how things work.
What makes all of this effort worth it is the sense of awe that comes from exploring the world of Xenoblade Chronicles 2. It’s a place that makes you feel miniscule. In this universe, humanity lives on the backs of giant creatures called titans, which are big enough that they’re essentially continents, walking through a mysterious sea made of clouds. There’s an incredible thrill that comes from running through an open plain and looking up to see what appears to be a moving mountain, that actually turns out to be the rocky neck of a towering creature. These moments never seem to get old, as the game continually throws new and strange places at you. At one point, you’re actually swallowed by a titan, only to discover a fantastical ecosystem living inside of it.
Visiting a different titan is like going to another country. The cities have their own unique cultures. Some are rural towns dotted by rice paddies, others huge cities with ports full of gigantic airships. The wildlife is especially diverse, ranging from terrifying dinosaurs to strange walking plants. And they behave much more like real animals than typical video game monsters. They run in herds, drink from lakes, and many of the more peaceful creatures will leave you alone if you don’t bother them. The landscape feels plausible, which seems even more incredible when you remember that it exists on the back of a massive creature.
This kind of world building has always been the highlight of the series. Xenoblade Chronicles X on the Wii U felt like you were living inside of a greatest hits collection of sci-fi art. There are some aspects that ruin the illusion — gathering fish, wood, or other resources means searching for specific glowing spots — but for the most part the worlds are a joy to inhabit, especially for sci-fi fans. Xenoblade Chronicles 2 simply takes things a step further by somehow making the sense of scale seem even larger and more intimidating.
But while the gameplay and world are worth investing in, other aspects of the experience don’t hold up quite so well. The story is, despite its unique premise, fairly predictable, and I never felt especially connected to any of the characters. (It’s also a standalone tale, so you don’t have to worry about having played the previous games.) Your squad mates can get annoyingly chatty, constantly repeating lines like “We’ll beat them with the power of friendship!” in the midst of a heated battle. Worse still, the game is filled with lengthy, and not particularly exciting, cutscenes. Thankfully, you can at least pause or skip these moments (a necessary feature if you’re playing on the go).
And while Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is a gorgeous game — though the resolution takes a significant hit when you play in portable mode — the character designs are a mishmash of styles that don’t really gel together. It’s weird to watch a supposedly serious cutscene where a squat anime scavenger and a doll-like robot are being accosted by a soldier of normal human proportions. It’s even stranger viewed up against the gritty sci-fi backdrop of an alien landscape. It’s a big departure if you’re coming to the game from Xenoblade Chronicles X, which had a much more consistent sense of style.
If you play these kinds of games for story and characters, those aspects of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 aren’t going to fully satisfy you. But the things it does well, it really excels at. The gameplay is deep enough that even dozens of hours in you’ll still be learning new techniques and details, while the world is so vast and strange you can’t help but want to explore. And like Breath of the Wild, it’s the kind of game that fits the handheld console perfectly, letting you dip into the world wherever you are. It may not be quite the same as venturing through the vast fields of Hyrule, but the sense of discovery is nearly as satisfying.
Xenoblade Chronicles 2 will be available December 1st on the Nintendo Switch.


Microsoft unveiled a beta version of its Edge web browser last month for iOS and Android. Testers had to sign-up to get special access to the new browser, but Microsoft is making both the Android and iOS versions generally available today. Microsoft Edge for mobile is mainly useful if you tend to resume a lot of browsing from a phone to a Windows 10 PC.
Microsoft has integrated its “continue on PC” functionality directly into Edge for iOS and Android, so you can ping a site over to your PC if it’s just not loading properly on mobile or you want to continue with a mouse and keyboard. Edge also includes access to favorites, history, reading list, and ebooks. Sadly, Microsoft still hasn’t added tab syncing to Edge for mobile, so you can’t share tabs or history between PC and phone.
Microsoft is planning to support tab syncing and the iPad at some point in the future, but both features probably won’t arrive until next year. Microsoft Edge for iOS and Android is available on Apple’s App Store or the Google Play Store.



When Dell first introduced its redesigned XPS 13 laptop nearly three years ago, it kicked off a renaissance in laptop design. Dell proved that you could have a full-size, 13-inch display in a computer that’s as compact and portable as an 11-inch model. Nearly every other laptop maker has followed down this path, and now there are a lot of laptop options with trim bezels and small footprints.
In the years since this design debuted, Dell has updated the XPS 13 numerous times, bestowing it with processor upgrades, adding new port types, and removing others. It even extended the design to a larger model, the beefy XPS 15, which packs a very powerful computer into a surprisingly portable package, and a 2-in-1 convertible take.
But what Dell hasn’t done is address many of the flaws of the original XPS 13. I’ve been using the latest model, which starts at $799 and comes equipped with Intel’s eighth-generation processors. By most accounts, it’s a great computer. But it also feels like a swan song for this design, which is perhaps ready to be put out to pasture.
Let’s start with the good: even though Dell’s tricks of slimming down the display bezels have been copied countless times over, the XPS 13 is still one of the most compact computers you can buy. It makes my everyday driver, the Surface Laptop, feel like a surfboard at times. It takes up such little space in my bag that I almost feel like my bag is bigger than it actually is.
The model I’ve been using has a bright, high-resolution (3200 x 1800) touchscreen display, a fantastic keyboard that’s a joy to type on, and a Windows Precision trackpad that’s smooth and easy to use. To the left of the trackpad is a fingerprint scanner that makes logging in quick and painless (if not quite as easy as the face-scanning systems other laptops offer).
Despite the small size, the XPS 13 still fits in two full-size USB ports, plus a USB Type-C Thunderbolt 3 port. There’s even a full-size SD card slot, which is such a rarity on computers of this size in 2017 that I almost wonder if it’s a mistake. (It’s not, and it’s wonderful.) Perhaps my favorite part is the battery meter on the left side that lets you check the status when the computer’s lid is closed.
Inside, Intel’s eighth-generation Core i7 processor (paired with 16GB of RAM in my test unit) is both powerful and power efficient. Just like we saw with the similarly equipped Yoga 920 from Lenovo, this XPS 13 can handle basically any task I have with ease, and does so quietly and coolly. It’s also able to last through an entire eight- to 10-hour workday with ease, which, while a far cry from the “up to 22 hours of continuous use” that Dell claims, is still good enough for me.
But even though the Dell has more than adequate performance and battery life, a lovely display, and great keyboard and trackpad, the whole package feels a bit stale at this point. It starts with the overall dense feeling of the computer: though it is extremely compact, the XPS 13 is not the lightest laptop you can get, and it’s not the thinnest either. It feels solid and heavy in ways that other computers don’t, even if it’s only a few ounces heavier on the scale.
And then there’s the placement of the webcam, which is something I disliked when I first used this computer three years ago and can’t stand today. To recap, the XPS 13’s front-facing camera is positioned to the lower left of the display. That enables the border above the display to be very trim, but it results in an unflattering, up-the-nose perspective from the camera on video conferences. To make things worse, if I’m typing on the keyboard, the camera sees my fingers in its frame, which is distracting to both me and the person I’m conferencing with. Other manufacturers, such as HP and Microsoft, have been able to put the front camera above the display and still maintain a slim bezel (and even include Windows Hello compatible face-scanning features), so it’s frustrating that Dell has stuck with this clearly inferior design.
If I’m being perfectly honest, there’s so much to like about the XPS 13 that if Dell had simply moved the webcam to where it belongs and done literally nothing else, I’d ignore the stale-feeling design and dense weight and proclaim that this is the best Windows computer to buy. But unless you really need that full-size SD slot or never use the webcam for conferencing, there are too many other options that do what the XPS 13 does just as well.
The XPS 13 deserves a place in laptop history for what it accomplished: making laptops smaller and more portable than ever before. But perhaps now it’s time for Dell to look to future and reinvent itself again.


The FDA has cleared the first medical device accessory for the Apple Watch, made by AliveCor, whose CEO is former Google+ boss Vic Gundotra. The accessory is AliveCor's KardiaBand electrocardiogram (EKG) reader, a sensor that pairs with an app and can detect abnormal heart rhythm and atrial fibrillation (AFib). The user touches the sensor, which snaps into a slot on the watch's band, to get an EKG reading in 30 seconds. The recording can then be sent to a doctor.
Using AI, the KardiaBand can predict and analyze someone’s heart rate based on data from both sick and healthy people, Bloomberg notes. “It doesn’t apply a generic range — instead, it determines what’s abnormal for you.” A device like this could play an important role in quickly diagnosing abnormalities and then alerting health-care professionals to life-threatening situations.
“Apple might be able to say ‘oh your heart rate is high’ …but what does that mean? Does that mean you should go to the hospital? And if you go to the hospital what are they going to do? Any doctor will say ‘ok come in, lets get an EKG reading’,” Gundotra told TechCrunch. “It’s not possible to diagnose atrial fibrillation without FDA clearance. That is a big, big play.” Apple has an initiative called the Apple Heart Study and plans to use heart rate data in building further research.
AliveCor also announced a new feature in its Kardia app called SmartRhythm, that uses AI to analyze data from the watch's heart rate and activity sensors. The app will evaluate the correlation between heart rate and activity, and if these appear abnormal, will alert the user to capture another EKG reading. A speech recognition function also allows patients to describe their symptoms aloud to the watch. The app will then generate analysis based on the data, which can be emailed to the user’s doctor.
KardiaBand is available now for $199, and requires a subscription to AliveCor's premium service, which costs $99 a year. The company also has a similar EKG reading device called the KardiaMobile, but that device attaches onto the back of your smartphone instead.






Google may be forced to pay out compensation to more than 5 million Brits if a class action lawsuit in the UK is successful. A group, labeling itself “Google You Owe Us,” is taking Google to court, claiming it unlawfully collected personal information by bypassing privacy settings on Apple’s iPhone Safari browser. Google, Facebook, and several other online advertising networks were caught in 2012 using a workaround to bypass restrictions, allowing the companies to deposit cookies on an iPhone even if the device was set to block them.
While Google claimed at the time its practice was limited to the company’s failed Google+ initiative, the UK lawsuit alleges that Google used the workaround to track “internet browsing history, which Google then used to sell a targeted advertising service.” Google’s revenues rely on selling targeted ads, and obtaining as much personal information on its users to sell services and recommend products.
Richard Lloyd, former director of consumer body Which? In the UK, is taking Google to court alongside law firm Mischon de Reya. “I believe that what Google did was simply against the law. Their actions have affected millions, and we’ll be asking the courts to remedy this major breach of trust,” explains Lloyd in an interview with The Guardian. “Through this action, we will send a strong message to Google and other tech giants in Silicon Valley that we’re not afraid to fight back if our laws are broken.”
The case is rather unique in the UK against a giant tech company. While there have been numerous class action lawsuits in the US against big tech companies, the practice isn’t as widespread in the UK. Google was forced to pay a $22.5 million fine for the same Safari privacy breach back in 2012. At the time it was one of the highest fines the Federal Trade Commission had administered. Britain’s High Court will hear the case some time next year, and if the action is successful then iPhone users from 2011-2012 will be able to claim part of the damages. Google says it will defend the case. “This is not new,” says a Google spokesperson. “We have defended similar cases before. We don’t believe it has any merit and we will contest it.”


Essential has rolled out yet another update to its camera app that adds new features and promises to help alleviate some of the photo issues seen with the Essential Phone. Notably, the update brings a new background-blurring portrait mode like those found on the Pixel 2 and iPhone X, among others. It also fixes some stability issues while improving image quality by reducing JPEG compression and adding exposure compensation to more camera modes.
The camera is seen as the Essential Phone’s weakest feature and the Achilles Heel of the bezel-less device. The company had previously rolled out app and firmware updates to address the camera's shortcomings. We gave the phone an 8 out of 10 in our review while noting the disappointing camera performance on a device positioned at the “premium” end of the smartphone spectrum. The Essential Phone's price was cut to $499 in October, $200 less than its original price, and that number dropped even lower to $399 for Cyber Monday.
Continued updates are a good sign, but fire-sale pricing and the sudden leave of Essential founder and CEO Andy Rubin have to make you question the viability of the fledgling company.



Google is launching another stylish and simple Android app designed to help people manage one of the core functions of their phone — in this case, data usage.
The app is called Datally, and it’s supposed to help you understand where you data is going and cut down on how much you’re using. Datally will show which apps are using data the most and at what times your data is getting used up; it’ll also recommend ways to cut down data usage based on your own activity and suggest nearby Wi-Fi networks for you to connect to.
More importantly, there’s a big button at the top of the app that lets you stop all background data usage, so only the app that’s actively onscreen can use mobile data. A chat-head style bubble will also pop up to let you know how much data your currently running app is using up. And if you don’t want to block every single app from using background data, Datally will let you go in and control data usage on an app by app basis, too.
If you’re a longtime Android user, Datally might not sound all that exciting. Nearly all of the app’s functions are already built into Android directly. But those features are hidden inside the settings menu, and they aren’t spelled out quite as neatly as they appear to be inside Datally. As a standalone app, it’ll also be much easier for people to find and remember to use.
Datally is being released as part of Google’s Next Billion Users initiative, which is focused on making Google products more usable in countries that have limited mobile connections and where lower-end hardware remains widespread. That’s why the initiative is focusing on basic features like storage management — as with its last standalone app — and data usage. It’s also why Datally takes up a tiny 6MB of space.
Josh Woodward, the product manager overseeing Datally, says the idea for the app came from seeing the lengths that people go to preserve data, particularly in countries where mobile plans remain relatively expensive. In Delhi, Lagos, and Buenos Aires, Woodard said his team saw people who would keep their phone on airplane mode at all times to prevent data usage. When they wanted to check their notifications, they’d turn airplane mode off, let all the info rush in, and then turn airplane mode back on while they looked over the new information.
“A bunch of us on the team spent a lot of time on long flights observing people in their homes, bus stations, classrooms, and kept seeing this airplane mode behavior,” Woodward told The Verge.
Google has been testing Datally in the Philippines since this summer. The company says it’s already hit over 500,000 users and that it’s been able to save people, on average, 30 percent of their data. As of today, the app is being released to the rest of the world and is available to any phone running Android 5.0 or higher.
Obviously, if you can afford to use the extra data, you probably won’t want to use this app. Cutting off background data use will hurt your overall phone experience, as not only will apps not refresh content in the background, but apps won’t send you push notifications either (which means you wouldn’t be able to chat with someone over anything but SMS). But if you’re constantly bumping up against your data cap, Datally seems like an easy way to start figuring out where the problem is.


Activision and Bungie have released a new Amazon Alexa skill that taps into Destiny 2 and lets you speak to Ghost, your character’s AI companion. You’ll be able to ask Ghost for tips on what to do in the game or explanations of its lore, as well as issuing commands for things like quickly equipping your most powerful loadouts.
This works through any Alexa-enabled device, like the range of Echo speakers, but Amazon is also selling a Ghost-shaped Wi-Fi speaker that you can speak to directly whether you're playing on PS4, Xbox One, or PC. You do already have to have a separate Alexa device for the Ghost speaker to work, however.
The Ghost costs $89.98 and will ship on December 19th — and you’ll have to be quick, since it only appears to be on sale for the next five hours.


On November 2nd, a rogue Twitter employee temporarily deactivated the Twitter account belonging to President Donald Trump. After initially reporting that it had been an error, Twitter said that the action had been taken by a contractor on his last day.  Now, after a global manhunt by journalists, the former employee revealed himself to TechCrunch. His name is Bahtiyar Duysak, a German citizen of Turkish descent, and he worked for Twitter as a contractor with a firm named Pro Unlimited.
Duysak said the move was “a mistake” and told TechCrunch he never thought the account would actually be deactivated. He attributed the deactivation to a series of unspecified “coincidences” that had occurred on his final day. “I had a wild time in America,” Duysak said. “I was tired sometimes. And everyone can do mistakes. I did a mistake.”
Duysak told TechCrunch that a Twitter user had reported Trump for abuse on his final day. “As a final, throwaway gesture, he put the wheels in motion to deactivate it,” TechCrunch reported. “Then he closed his computer and left the building.” Duysak did not explain his motivation or offer any other comments on the president. He said he did not believe that Trump’s account would actually be deactivated.
Duysak said he does not believe he is under investigation by the FBI, although Twitter has asked him for more information. He said he hopes to have an ordinary life, and said he did not plan to work in tech again in the near future. “But I love Twitter,” he told TechCrunch, wearing a sweater emblazoned with the stars and stripes. “And I love America.”


Bungie today announced a large-scale series of changes to the world of Destiny 2 to address fierce criticism from players, many of whom have been voicing concern since the game’s September launch that the developer was either ignoring community feedback or uninterested in changing what fans saw as fundamental flaws to the sci-fi shooter sequel. Some of the changes will go live with the upcoming Curse of the Osiris expansion launching on December 5th, with more to come in a patch the following week. The company also detailed longer-term updates slated for 2018.
Now, certain weapons will once again have “rolls,” or a randomly assigned set of unlockable benefits that make a player’s version of the virtual firearm different and potentially superior and rarer than another’s. Bungie is calling its new system for these weapons Masterworks, and there will be a way to unlock variable perks for specific weapons, including those items that are part of the game’s rarest weapons collections. You’ll also be able to make a standard weapon into a Masterworks one and re-roll the perks on those weapons individually.
Bungie is also adding a ranked mode for its competitive Crucible multiplayer mode, which pits humans against other humans (as opposed to against artificial intelligence-powered enemies), as well as private matches so players can compete directly against friends and have more control over the Crucible experience. Other changes include: a way to earn the game’s rarest loot — coveted exotic weapons and armor — through a system that will reward only those weapons players don’t already have; a more robust rewards system for the game’s hardest activities like prestige raids and nightfalls; more replay value for standard activities like strikes and adventures; more straightforward and transparent ways to purchase and customize armor sets using in-game currency and materials; and increased drop rates across the board for Destiny 2’s controversial token system.
The updates, listed in a blog post from game directors Luke Smith and Chris Barrett, take the place of a previously planned live stream for the Curse of the Osiris expansion. Following the cancellation of that live stream — the third and final stream in what had morphed into a contentious and failed attempt at communicating with an increasingly frustrated player base — Bungie decided to instead address the high-level criticisms with a list of specific updates and a concrete timeline for the implementation of the changes.
The company, since the launch of the original Destiny, has been plagued by an inability to adequately communicate with its player base. The developer has often made obtuse, sometimes mind-boggling decisions that are either left in place without further comment or largely ignored until players either become fed up and stop playing or voice enough criticism that Bungie rolls back the change or, at the very least, offers more detailed reasoning for it.
“Our team has been reading feedback and working on updates to improve the game. We’ve also been reading some tough criticism about our lack of communication, and we agree we need to be more open,” the duo write. “We know it’s frustrating when there isn’t enough of a dialog with the development team. You have our commitment that we’re going to do a better job going forward.”
The list of new changes is long and detailed, and any hardcore fan of Destiny 2 should head over to Bungie’s blog to read in it full. It is not, however, as exhaustive as some players may have hoped. The developer did not address the lack of Crucible playlist choice, leaving players with the two restrictive “Quickplay” and “Competitive” options. There were also no mentions of balancing issues between the game’s cooperative activities and its competitive ones, meaning core issues persist between how the game handles aspects like weapon loadouts and ability recharge rates across vastly different game modes. Bungie made no mention of specific changes to weapon classes or to any proposed tweaks to its controversial power weapons system, which moved some of the first Destiny’s most enjoyable guns, like sniper rifles and shotguns, to a more restrictive inventory slot that has come close to erasing their presence in the game.
However, it’s important to note that Bungie appears to be addressing some of the harshest criticism Destiny 2 has received in the last two months with direct and much-needed changes across every aspect of the game. The overall goal it appears is to give diehard players more reason to play the game on a regular basis, reduce more of the friction from and mystical nature of the game’s reward systems, make its in-game economy more manageable, and provide more quality-of-life improvements to the game to make it less of a slog. It all sounds very promising, and if Bungie follows through, the developer could very well steer Destiny 2 back on its path toward becoming an even deeper and more rewarding experience than its predecessor.
“Going forward, we plan to continue this dialog as openly and frequently as possible. This will be an ongoing process, but one that we are committed to. This week we’ll be publishing a new episode of the Bungie Podcast where we will sound off on the current state of Destiny 2, how we think about our communication challenges, and what it takes to update the game in the wild,” Smith and Barrett write. “Thank you for playing, for being passionate about the Destiny 2 experience, and for working with us as we look to continuously improve our game and studio communication.”



Today, Coinbase suffered a major defeat at the hands of the Internal Revenue Service, nearly a year after the case was initially filed. A California federal court has ordered Coinbase to turn over identifying records for all users who have bought, sold, sent, or received more than $20,000 through their accounts in a single year between 2013 and 2015. Coinbase estimates that 14,355 users meet the government’s requirements. The full order is embedded below.
For each account, the company has been asked to provide the IRS with the user’s name, birth date, address, and taxpayer ID, along with records of all account activity and any associated account statements. The result is both a definitive link to the user’s identity and a comprehensive record of everything they’ve done with their Coinbase account, including other accounts to which they’ve sent money.
The order is significantly narrower than the IRS’s initial request, which asked for records on every single Coinbase account over the same period. That request would also have required all communications between Coinbase and the user, a measure the judge found unnecessarily comprehensive.
The government made no claim of suspicion against individual users, but instead argued that the order was justified based on the discrepancy between Coinbase users and US citizens reporting Bitcoin gains to the IRS. Coinbase boasts nearly 6 million customers, but according to a government filing, fewer than 1,000 US citizens have reported cryptocurrency holdings on their taxes.
The ruling has already proven controversial in the Bitcoin world. “We remain deeply unsatisfied with the lack of justification provided by the IRS,” Coin Center’s Peter Van Valkenburgh told The Verge. “Without better rationale for why these specific transactions were suspect, a similarly sweeping request could be made for customer data from any financial institution. It sets a bad precedent for financial privacy.”
Coinbase had vigorously opposed the order on similar grounds, but cast the final ruling as a partial victory. “Although we are disappointed not to be able to entirely defeat the summons,” Coinbase’s David Farmer wrote in a post after the ruling, “we are proud to fight for our customers and in the result we were able to achieve as a small company against a large government agency.”
The company is currently reviewing the order, and intends to notify any affected users before any documents are produced.
Update 11/30, 1:33PM ET: Updated with Coinbase statement.
US v. Coinbase order by Russell Brandom on Scribd


Verizon is getting closer to releasing its first commercial 5G network, with the company announcing today that it plans on launching 5G in three to five cities by the end of next year. The rollout starts with Sacramento, California sometime in the second half of 2018.
There isn’t much more information beyond the location and general launch window — Verizon isn’t even commenting as to what technologies it’ll be using or what speeds to expect. So we don’t actually know yet if this is something like AT&T’s fake “5G Evolution” network, which saw the company repurpose existing technology from the LTE-Advanced and LTE-Advanced Pro standards in the name of higher speeds, or an actual, real 5G deployment of technology from the actual 5G NR standard.
Verizon does say in its press release that the rollout is based on the company’s “confidence in new technology powered by millimeter-wave spectrum,” which does lend some hope that it’s the real McCoy. Sacramento makes sense as a first city for Verizon, though, given that it was one of the 11 cities that the company had started initial 5G test on earlier this year. Details on the other four candidate cities, along with more information on the initial Sacramento rollout, are coming “at a later date.”


The Supreme Court heard arguments today for Carpenter v. United States, a case that could have serious implications on how police use cellphones to track a person’s location.
Timothy Carpenter was a robbery suspect arrested in connection with a string of armed robberies of RadioShack and T-Mobile stores in Michigan in 2011. After failing to catch Carpenter initially, FBI agents requested cellphone data from wireless carriers, with a court order from a magistrate judge under the Stored Communications Act. FBI agents obtained months of records from cellphone companies and successfully convicted Carpenter in 2013.
Because there was no warrant for the records request, the ACLU argues the location records were collected unconstitutionally. ACLU staff attorney Nathan Freed Wessler told The Verge that the government could potentially obtain even more sensitive personal data beyond location data without a warrant if the court rules in its favor.
“It would imperil the privacy of all kinds of data that we really can't avoid creating in the digital age,” he said, “Some are queries we enter into Google, our web browsing history, medical information, fertility tracking data from a smartphone app, [and] new information from Internet of Things devices we put in our homes.”
Courts have traditionally ruled that citizens can’t expect privacy after they’ve given up their data to a third party like a phone company. But Wessler, who argued Carpenter’s case in today’s hearing, says the Fourth Amendment requires police to either request warrants before they can access location data, or limit requests to a more specific period of time.
“The choice that Americans have is to either opt out of society totally to protect privacy or to give up all of our privacy rights in order to be modern human beings,” said Wessler to The Verge. “That just can’t be the right choice.”
Many of the justices listening to the case today seemed sympathetic, according to George Washington University law professor Orin Kerr who hosted a post-mortem analysis on the Lawfare page on Facebook Live. “It was a good day for Carpenter but not in the way that he was arguing,” said Kerr. His prediction is that the justices, including Sonia Sotomayor, will ultimately rule in favor of Carpenter through some combination of privacy theories.
For instance, during the questioning of the US defendant, Sotomayor asked, “If it's not okay to put a beeper into someone's bedroom, why is it okay to use the signals that phone is using from that person's bedroom, made accessible to law enforcement without probable cause?”
My guess: Carpenter wins, on some kind of privacy theory. Justices very skeptical of the mosaic idea, but likely 5 votes for Carpenter, maybe more.
Justices Samuel Alito and Anthony Kennedy seemed less sympathetic to Carpenter’s case. Alito compared location data to bank records, which can be obtained without a warrant, and are arguably more personal. Kennedy agreed, saying that unlike bank records, “your whereabouts are publicly known. People can see you. Surveillance officers can follow you.”
This past August, major tech companies like Verizon, Twitter, Google, Apple, Facebook, and Microsoft signed an amicus (“friend-of-the-court”) brief, backing Carpenter’s side. The brief stated that “the Court should forgo reliance on outmoded rules that make little sense when applied in the digital context.”
A decision is expected in the first half of next year.









Intel, which is trying to stake out a position as the leading provider of computing power for self-driving cars, is teaming up with Warner Bros. to develop “in-cabin, immersive experiences in autonomous vehicle settings.” Intel assumes that in the future, you’ll be watching movies and augmented reality productions instead of the road, while your robot car whisks you to work or the grocery store. This is the first major partnership between a movie studio and a tech company working on autonomous driving technology.
It’s also the first indication that the future of driving will be chockablock with advertising. We’re used to seeing ads on the side of the road while driving, or hearing commercials on our radios. But the idea that brands will be competing for space on the screens inside our vehicles — or on the windshields of the vehicles themselves — may not sit well with some people, especially if they aren’t afforded a chance to block or mute these ads. It might be too early to start worrying about the manipulation of self-driving cars to sell us more stuff, but that doesn’t mean advertisers aren’t already devising ways to do just that.
Intel certainly isn’t shying away from the possibility. In a blog post published today, the chipmaker’s CEO Brian Krzanich framed his company’s partnership with Warner Bros. as a demonstration of how entertainment will be consumed by passengers in autonomous vehicles while they are riding and not driving. Suddenly, all that time can be used to do work, catch up on some sleep, or more likely, watch hours and hours of television.
“Not only do we see passengers consuming content ranging from movies and television programming,” Krzanich writes, “we imagine riders enjoying immersive experiences never seen before, courtesy of in-cabin virtual reality and augmented reality innovations.” That means exploring ways to integrate Warner Bros. movies, games, and TV shows into the compute platform being developed by Intel. Intel’s goal is to “enable” passengers in their self-driving vehicles to “view advertising and other discovery experiences,” he said.
Intel is working on developing a fleet of 100 fully autonomous cars for testing in the US, Israel, and Europe, and says it will install this Warner Bros.-developed VR and AR technology in some of those vehicles as a proof of concept.
Honestly, some people may think that sounds pretty cool. Who wouldn’t want their trip to Walmart to be rebranded as a drive through the shrouded streets of Gotham City? Well, probably a lot of people, especially those who would prefer their commutes to be free of corporations screaming in their faces. Intel may be the first self-driving operator to openly embrace content creators as an active partner in the future of car design, but they won’t be the last.
“Get ready for your car to become yet another ‘screen’ where publishers and advertisers compete for your attention,” says a new report from Forrester Research entitled “Autonomous Vehicles Will Reshape the Global Economy” (via MarTech Today). “Don’t be surprised,” the report warns, “when you start to see big brands sponsoring your rides: ‘This trip is brought to you by the champagne of beers — Miller High Life.’”
To be sure, it will take decades to get to this point, if indeed we ever really get there at all. This presupposes a level of confidence and trust with the technology underlying self-driving cars that does not currently exist. And most self-driving car operators are focused on highlighting the safety aspect of autonomous vehicles, which arguably is a stronger selling point than trying to monetize your daily commute.
But it certainly raises concerns, especially if your Intel-designed car tries to talk you out of going to see the latest Marvel movie because of its preexisting relationship with Warner Bros. Because that wouldn’t be super at all.



Samsung filed a patent in Korea this past year for a social story sharing feature using Samsung Pay. The patent, which SamMobile first spotted, explains how users can share their legitimate purchases and maybe even rate the places they frequent. Samsung also discusses working with celebrities to launch the stories feature. The update sounds similar to Venmo's feeds in which users can share their money exchanges with the world.
The key difference between Samsung's proposed feed and Venmo's existing one is that Samsung suggests using it to advertise restaurants or other establishments that accept Samsung Pay. Venmo's feed primarily exists for exposing who you're sending money to and why. The company's public feed originally existed as a way to publicize the service and raise awareness, as Venmo product lead Melanie Aliperti explained to The Verge, which may be why Samsung feels it needs social media. Still, we have no date on when or if Samsung will release this feature.



YouTube is testing a new feature called “Reels” that, at least in concept, will be similar to the Stories you see every day on Snapchat and Instagram. According to TechCrunch, Reels will be given their own tab — separate from a creator’s main list of videos. YouTube’s reasoning for introducing them is not unlike what we’ve heard from Snap and Instagram: people want a way to share content without having to go the full mile and publish a traditional YouTube video. Reels are being tested among a small group of the site’s creators, and the company isn’t yet saying when this “new format” will be more widely rolled out.
YouTube is diverging from the typical Stories formula in several ways. Most notably, Reels won’t disappear after 24 hours or some other arbitrary amount of time. And YouTube will let users have multiple Reels — each with its own set of videos. That’s different from Instagram and Snapchat, where your temporary posts are part of one, centralized story.
TechCrunch says the process of making Reels is as follows: you shoot “a few quick mobile videos of up to 30 seconds each” and can spruce them up with the usual mix of filters or by adding music and text. “We’re also bringing creator-focused features like linking to YouTube videos and YouTube-y stickers,” YouTube’s Roy Livne said in a blog post.
YouTube giving into the Stories trend comes alongside the hire of Todd Sherman, who previously worked as lead product manager on Snapchat’s trend-setting version of the feature. It’s not clear if Sherman will be helming, in YouTube’s own words, the company’s “spin” on stories.
Some people will likely bemoan the idea of Reels invading the YouTube experience. But, at least during this initial beta phase, it sounds like users won’t be hit over the head with them through obnoxious placement at the top of the app or other ways of force-feeding the new feature to viewers. Only if users “engage with Reels” will YouTube possibly start displaying them in your main home tab recommendations, according to TechCrunch. “We’ll be experimenting with a beta version of Reels to learn and improve the product before expanding to more creators,” Livne said.


Facebook is asking some of its users to upload a photo of themselves to verify their identities. This feature isn’t exactly new to Facebook: users on Reddit and in Facebook’s help section have reported that they experienced it as early as April.
The screen prompts users with a message: “Please upload a photo of yourself which clearly shows your face. When you send us a photo, we'll check it and then permanently delete it from our servers."
The globally available feature is meant to help Facebook “catch suspicious activity at various points of interaction on the site, including creating an account, sending Friend requests, setting up ad payments, and creating or editing ads,” according to an official statement to The Verge. It’s an automated process that appears when a user attempts one of these activities or is found to have multiple accounts and it only works if the user provides an original photo that hasn’t been uploaded to Facebook previously. While the photo is being analyzed, users can’t log in until Facebook contacts them again in a 72-hour time period.
Update November 29th, 5PM ET: This article was updated to reflect that Facebook uses the feature to authenticate people after suspicious activity and it will not roll out over time.


Jim Beam makes bourbon, but it seems that the distillery is looking to make the jump into the tech industry with the release of its new product Jim, a “smart” decanter. But instead of telling you the weather or setting alarms, Jim pours whiskey.
In fact, that’s pretty much all Jim does. The smart decanter does seem to have some kind of built-in voice control if the video is to be believed, but instead of offering contextual responses, you’re pretty much just going to get recordings of the voice of Fred Noe, a master distiller at Jim Beam.
While Jim does look a whole like like an April Fools’ Day gag that’s meant to poke fun at the recent boom of products like the Echo or Google Home, it seems like Jim is actually real. Jim Beam is purportedly selling it on its site for $34.90 — which, fun fact, is actually more than a bottle of Jim Beam. It’s promising deliveries in time for the holidays, although it’s currently sold out. Jim appears to function off integrated 3G service for voice recognition, and the product page notes that it’ll expire about six months after purchase, leaving you with an ordinary, Jim Beam-branded decanter.
While it’s entirely possible that this whole thing is just a marketing stunt, Jim Beam has actually sold real products for the express purpose of mocking tech companies before. As AdWeek points out, the company sold wearable Jim Beam Apple-branded shot glasses last year to make fun of the Apple Watch.
If you do get your hands on one of the few Jims that the company seems to have made, it’s important to note that it doesn’t actually come with any whiskey. That said, there’s also nothing stopping you from filling it up with a better whiskey, should you prefer to drink something that actually tastes, you know, good.


Instagram is testing a number of new features including the ability to search for GIFs to upload in your stories, according to screenshots obtained by The Next Web. TNW also detailed a number of other new features Instagram appears to be testing: a close friends list to share with only a small group of people, an automatic archiving option for all your stories, hashtag and emoji search options, and the ability to follow hashtags to get top posts and stories on a particular trend. Granted, all of these are just tests, so we may not see them become public features anytime soon — if ever.
Yet another new feature TNW detailed with a screenshot is a bit more curious than the others. The screenshot shows a dual-arrow icon symbolizing what would appear to be a repost button that would sit next to the standard like, comment, and send buttons. An official “regram” button would allow users to easily repost photos from friends and other followers. The feature has been a top request of users for years, with a number of third-party apps on iOS and Android standing in to help automate the process in lieu of an official option from Instagram itself. Reposting has also been a hallmark of nearly every big US social network, with Facebook’s share and Twitter’s retweet buttons the most obvious examples, and yet Instagram has stubbornly refused to abide by this particular design conformity.
However, it’s not clear reposting is what the button in the screenshot symbolizes, although it’s certainly likely. Instagram declined to comment on the screenshot or any of the other tests, refusing to say whether it was working on or testing a regram button. That said, if this did become a new feature, it would surely be a useful one, as it would remove the need to put image credits as a caption on reuploaded photo or piece of artwork. A native regram button would also remove the need to use third-party apps like Repost for Instagram and Regrann, which may be why Instagram is staying silent on the subject for now.


A computer glitch has allowed all of American Airlines’ pilots to take vacation during the week of Christmas, according to ABC and Reuters. The error could leave thousands of planes grounded during one of the busiest travel weeks of the year.
Citing the union that represents pilots, Reuters reports that over 15,000 planes currently lack pilot assignments in December. “On Friday, management disclosed a failure within the pilot schedule bidding system,” the Allied Pilots Association said in a statement. “As a result, thousands of flights currently do not have pilots assigned to fly them during the upcoming critical holiday period.”
The glitch apparently originated in the system that bids for pilots’ time off based on seniority, leading to the shortage. “Basically there’s a crisis at American for manning the cockpits,” Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, told Reuters.
BREAKING: American Airlines says computer glitch allowed all pilots to take vacation over Christmas week. Now union says thousands of flights are in jeopardy of cancellation. Americans says they’re offering 1.5x pay for pilots to fill in and expect to resolve the issue.
American says it’s working on a solution. One possibility is to entice pilots to work by promising extra pay. The airline sent an email to employees offering one-and-a-half times their normal rates to help fill in, but a grievance filed by the union against management said that the restrictions on overtime pay were a violation of the group’s contract.
The union claims that management at American has not reached out to devise a solution. “Because management unilaterally created their solution in violation of the contract, neither APA nor the contract can guarantee the promised payment of the premium being offered,” the union said.
Update November 29th, 3:13PM ET: A spokesperson for American Airlines said in a statement, “We are working diligently to address the issue and expect to avoid cancellations this holiday season. We have reserve pilots to help cover flying in December, and we are paying pilots who pick up certain open trips 150 percent of their hourly rate – as much as we are allowed to pay them per the contract. We will work with the APA to take care of our pilots and ensure we get our customers to where they need to go over the holidays.”



New York attorney general Eric Schneiderman wants New York state residents to report fake net neutrality-related comments sent under their names. Schneiderman’s office has put up a page where New Yorkers can search the FCC’s comment database, then report any fake submissions to help with an investigation that Schneiderman announced last week.
The page asks users to post links to fake comments and answer a few accompanying questions, including whether the content matched their actual view of net neutrality. Schneiderman has previously said that “tens of thousands” of New Yorkers may have had their names attached to fake submissions, which were submitted in vast numbers during an FCC comment period earlier this year. He argues that this constitutes a form of identity theft, as well as a “potential corruption of the federal policy-making process,” since it’s an inaccurate representation of public opinion.
While people from across the country have reported having their identities used in fake comments, only New Yorkers are supposed to use this particular submission system. But Schneiderman’s recent announcement called new attention to the entire incident, especially as he’s accused the FCC of refusing to cooperate with his investigation. There’s no deadline for submissions, but agency press secretary Amy Spitalnick tells The Verge that “the sooner folks can check and tell us if their info was used without their consent, the better.”


In December, SpaceX will again send cargo to the International Space Station — but this time, it will use a Falcon 9 rocket that has already flown to space and back. NASA officially confirmed the decision today during a meeting, noting that SpaceX’s upcoming resupply mission will fly on a Falcon 9 that already launched to the ISS in June. It marks the first time SpaceX will launch a used rocket for NASA, further validating the company’s reusable rocket technology.
“NASA participated in a broad range of SpaceX data assessments and inspections regarding use of a previously flown Falcon 9 first stage booster,” NASA said in a statement confirming the decision to The Verge. Ultimately, NASA will consider flying on used Falcon 9s on a case-by-case basis going forward, the space agency said.
Throughout 2017, SpaceX has been proving that its Falcon 9 rockets are just as capable of flying to space a second time around. The company launched three previously flown boosters this year, all of which sent satellites to orbit and then landed back on one of SpaceX’s drone ships post-launch. Their landings have opened up the possibility that these rockets could fly for a third time, and perhaps many times more than that.
But so far, only a few of SpaceX’s commercial customers have flown their hardware on used rockets. The first to do so was Luxembourg-based communications company SES, which flew its SES-10 satellite on a used Falcon 9 in March. Next to take the plunge was satellite operator Bulgaria Sat in June, followed by EchoStar and SES again, which sent up a hybrid satellite together on a used Falcon 9 in early October.
Other customers are coming around: satellite operator Iridium will launch its next two missions, Iridium-4 and Iridium-5, on used Falcon 9 rockets. And even Israeli satellite operator Spacecom has decided to fly its next satellite on top of a used vehicle — despite the company’s fiery history with SpaceX. Spacecom’s AMOS-6 satellite was destroyed when the Falcon 9 it was sitting on exploded during a fueling procedure last September. After the explosion, Spacecom sought compensation from SpaceX, either in the form of $50 million or a free flight on a Falcon 9. Now it looks like Spacecom is going with that latter option, in order to launch its next probe, AMOS-17, and isn’t afraid to use a previously flown booster either.
NASA has been open to flying with used SpaceX hardware. In June, SpaceX launched cargo to the space station using a Dragon capsule that had already flown to space and back. After that flight, a NASA official expressed interest in flying cargo on used Falcon 9s, noting that the space agency had discussed it. “We are looking at it,” Ven Feng, the manager of the ISS Transportation Integration Office, said during a press conference at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in June. “We’re evaluating every aspect of it very carefully, and there is no schedule yet when we might go down that path.”
Now with NASA agreeing to fly on a previously flown Falcon 9, it’s possible others might hop on the bandwagon too — specifically the US military. Ever since getting certification to fly national security satellites, SpaceX has been slowly accruing more and more military launches. The company launched its first national security satellite in May for the National Reconnaissance Office and even lofted the Air Force’s super secret X-37B spaceplane in September.
And the US government has made it clear that flying on used Falcon 9 rockets is a definite option. General John W. “Jay” Raymond, head of US Air Force Space Command, told Bloomberg it would be “absolutely foolish” for the military not to fly on previously flown rockets in order to save on launch costs.


If you’re a hard-working lady, you probably already suspected what scientists have confirmed today: prehistoric women worked their butts off.
The bones of 94 women who lived in farming communities in Central Europe from 5300 BCE to around 850 AD reveal that prehistoric women had stronger arms than living women, including semi-elite female rowers. That’s likely because these farming women from the past worked incredibly hard — tilling soil, harvesting, and grinding grain by hand. And they probably started at a very young age, according to a study published today in Science Advances.
The findings show that prehistoric ladies didn’t leave the physical labor to the men. In fact, they toiled long hours and were a key “driving force” behind the social and cultural development of agricultural communities over almost 6,000 years, says lead author Alison Macintosh, an anthropologist at Cambridge University. “Now we can kind of see, actually there’s these thousands of years of rigorous manual labor that had been completely underestimated,” she tells The Verge. “It’s really important to be able to understand the contribution of women.”
When trying to re-create how men and women behaved in the past, and their roles in society, scientists have to look at the archaeological evidence, which includes tools, as well as skeletons. Bones function as a sort of hard drive, storing all kinds of information about nourishment and physical activity throughout a person’s life. If you work out a lot, you won’t just have stronger muscles but also stronger bones. “Your bones are really an excellent biological record of your life,” says Brigitte Holt, a biological anthropologist at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, who was not involved in the research.
Previous studies looking at prehistoric bones showed that when hunter-gatherers picked up agriculture and settled down, their legs got weaker and arms got stronger. That’s because these people stopped wandering around as much, becoming more sedentary and tending to crops and livestock. But these changes were more pronounced in men than women, says Macintosh, partly because men’s bones respond differently to physical activity. For that reason, comparing women’s and men’s bones is not a good way to understand just how much work women did compared to men.
“They just look much weaker than men, so we think they’re not doing anything when that’s really not the case,” Macintosh says. “You need an appropriate comparison to see that.” That’s why Macintosh and her team decided to put prehistoric female bones side to side with modern female bones.
She scanned the upper arm bones and shinbones of 94 women from the Neolithic to the Middle Ages, as well as the bones of 83 living women in Cambridge who either led a sedentary lifestyle, or practiced sports such as soccer, running, or rowing. Old and modern bones were then compared to each other. The researchers found that the prehistoric women had consistently stronger arms: the Neolithic women living about 7,000 years ago had 11 to 16 percent stronger arm bones than modern rowers, for instance, while Bronze Age women from about 4,000 years ago had 9 to 13 percent stronger arms than the rowers. That suggests women were working hard with their arms, but also that they likely started working when they were kids, when bones are still growing, Holt tells The Verge.
The leg bones, however, told a different story: some prehistoric women had weaker legs than today’s women, while others had legs as strong as those of runners. “It suggests that women were doing a huge range of things,” Macintosh says. Some might have had very strong leg bones because they walked a lot, tending to grazing cows and fetching water over long distances, for instance, while other women might have been more sedentary, grinding grain all day to make flour.
The study has some limitations: the researchers couldn’t take into account genetic factors, for instance, which can influence whether a person has stronger bones than another. All the living women in the study were also from Cambridge, so results could be different for women living elsewhere. Still, it’s an “excellent study,” Holt says, that finally confirms what scientists have long suspected: that prehistoric women were hard workers — and we all have to thank them for that.
“This kind of work just highlights the role of women in the development of life as we know now,” Macintosh says. “We all pretty much live in agricultural societies now. And these couldn’t have developed without all of this manual labor done by women over thousands of years.”


FCC Chairman Ajit Pai on Wednesday lamented the “harassment” and “threats” and “unfiltered rage” that often dominate social media, concluding he didn’t have an answer as to whether it had actually resulted in any “net benefit to American society.”
Speaking at an event in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, the Republican leader of the telecom agency said sites like Twitter do have some positive effects — including the “groundswell” in users recently tweeting #MeToo to shed light on sexual assault.
But he still acknowledged that social media had “downsides,” from the infusion of politics in “everything from entertainment awards shows to natural disasters” to the fact that “anonymity has made our discourse nastier.” It marked the second time in as many days that Pai had taken direct aim at Twitter and other tech giants, questioning the effects of their powerful, all-encompassing platforms.
“In a way, one could say that ‘social media’ is perhaps the most inapt phrase ever coined,” Pai said, per remarks shared early with Recode. “It allows us to stay in touch while keeping a distance. It has sped the breakdown in human interaction. It has fed the unfiltered id at the expense of genuine understanding. And it has to some extent enabled the worst of human impulses — the drive to associate only with one’s own and to exclude the ‘other.’”
“And this drive can spill from the virtual world to the real one,” Pai later added. “If you want to know where it leads, try visiting a college campus these days wearing a ‘Make America Great Again’ hat.”
Pai’s comments — made during an appearance at an event hosted by The Media Institute — come at a time when the whole of Washington, D.C., is grappling with the power of Facebook, Google, Twitter and other tech giants, and the ways they surface content for users or serve as conduits for information, sometimes fake or harmful.
But the FCC chairman’s recent comments about Silicon Valley have been especially sharp. Just a day earlier, Pai charged that Web giants actually posed an immense threat to speech online — particularly because sites like Twitter have “a viewpoint” and they “use that viewpoint to discriminate.” The rebuke came as Pai sought to make the case for repealing the U.S. government’s net neutrality rules.
“And unfortunately, Twitter is not an outlier,” Pai said during the speech. “Indeed, despite all the talk, and all the fear, that broadband providers could decide what internet content consumers can see, recent experience shows that so-called edge providers are in fact deciding what content they see. These providers routinely block or discriminate against content they don’t like.”
On Wednesday, though, Pai continued his onslaught, pointing to other ills on Twitter and social media writ large. The FCC chairman said he and his family recently had felt a great degree of “vitriol” — a reflection, though he didn’t mention it, of the online and physical protests targeting his net neutrality repeal.
“This unprecedented medium for collaboration and connecting people feels like it’s dividing us and driving us apart,” he said.
Pai took great care to note that social media had rescuers respond to Hurricane Harvey in Houston, for example, while tech had enabled “telehealth” services in Virginia. But he still lamented that “everything nowadays is political” — including, to Pai, the pressure on stars like Taylor Swift to talk about those issues. Noting he no longer had a Facebook account, the FCC chairman said that “happy timelines” on the site “changed dramatically in the lead-up to and aftermath of the 2016 presidential election.”
“Where does America go from here? I certainly don’t have a magic solution,” he said.  “But what I do know is that we can’t allow the strident rudeness of an angry few to overwhelm what I continue to believe is the quiet decency of most Americans.”
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.



Amazon wants companies to take advantage of artificial intelligence — and, more importantly, it wants to sell them the tools to do so.
Today, the online retailer’s business subsidiary, Amazon Web Services (AWS), unveiled a suite of new products to help with this goal. Chief among them is a $250 AI-powered camera called DeepLens; a new platform for developing and deploying machine learning algorithms named SageMaker; and services for AI-powered transcription and translation. With these and other tools, Amazon is making it clear that during the current AI boom, it wants to be the one getting rich shelling shovels. At the same time, these announcement show it butting heads with rival Google, which has been busy building its own AI enterprise stack.
Of the announcements made today at AWS’ re:Invent conference, the DeepLens camera is perhaps the most intriguing. Like Google Clips, it’s a camera with on-device AI functionality; but unlike Clips, it’s aimed at developers, not consumers. DeepLens ships with a number of AI tools pre-installed, including optical character recognition, and image and object recognition. “These will help you detect cats and dogs, faces, a wide array of household and everyday objects, motions and actions, and even hot dogs,” said AWS in a blog post. (Yes, that is indeed a Silicon Valley joke.)
For your average company, DeepLens means being able to test and develop new vision-based AI functionality much more quickly. For example, if you’re running a warehouse and want to automatically scan inventory, you might buy a number of DeepLens cameras to do the job. You could then use Amazon’s pre-trained AI to recognize basic items, or train your own model and load it onto the cameras. Each DeepLens captures 1080p video and audio, and is powered by an Intel Atom processor. For connectivity and exporting data there’s also Wi-Fi, USB, and a micro HDMI port.
AWS DeepLens -- the world’s first Deep-Learning-enabled wireless video camera for developers! #reInvent https://t.co/36jZTtaqnX pic.twitter.com/NOaJ5AQ4al
As you’d expect, DeepLens will be tightly integrated with other cloud and AI services sold by AWS. In the same way that Apple makes its products work together in order to lock customers into its ecosystem, Amazon wants developers to get all their AI tools in one place.
To further this aim, the company also unveiled SageMaker — an “end-to-end machine learning service” that helps data scientists build, train, and host AI services. It supports the most popular frameworks in the machine learning industry (including Google’s TensorFlow, Facebook’s Caffe2, Pytorch, and MXNET) and will essentially allow developers to go from finding the data they need to train their AI model, to shipping it to customers, all without leaving the program. And to top it off, Amazon also announced new AI-powered transcription and translation tools, which will be direct rivals to Google’s own.
But what does this all really mean? Well, most likely, it means that AWS — already one of Amazon’s most profitable revenue streams — could make a lot more money. The subsidiary is already the industry leader in selling server space to companies around the world, and if the demand for AI tools continues to increase, it’ll add to that business. With products like Alexa, Amazon has shown it can do AI; now it’s going to sell those smarts to others.
In the last quarter, revenue for AWS was up 42 percent compared to 2016, totaling $4.58 billion and beating analysts’ expectations. (The explosive growth AWS showed around the end of 2014 and beginning of 2015 has slowed somewhat, but it’s still improving quarter-on-quarter.) And when asked if AWS could eventually become the largest enterprise tech company outright, beating out established giants like Oracle, CEO Andy Jassy told CNBC ahead of today’s announcements: “It’s possible.”


Game of Thrones might be headed into its final season on HBO in 2018 or 2019, but the Syfy channel is hoping audiences will tune in for more adaptations of George R.R. Martin’s writing. On his LiveJournal page, Martin recently confirmed that the network has picked up an adaptation of his novella Nightflyers for a 10-episode first season, which he hopes will air in July 2018.
In May, Syfy announced it was rebooting with a new look and a slew of new adaptations, including one of Martin’s 1980 novellas. The network ordered a pilot for the project in June 2017, and it was rumored in September to have ordered it to a series. In his post, Martin confirmed the pickup order, and revealed some concept art of the spaceship from the show.
Nightflyers is set in Martin’s Thousand Worlds universe, and follows a group of researchers who charter a mysterious spaceship to transport them to an alien ship passing through the galaxy. Then something goes wrong with the ship’s computer. The novella was nominated for a Hugo Award in 1981.
Martin notes that he initially wasn’t sure how Syfy intended to make a series out of Nightflyers, “since at the end of the novella (and the film) pretty much everyone is dead (it was a horror story, after all).” He went on to say he was impressed with the script and “came away with a better idea of where they'd find a few seasons” for the show.
Nightflyers was originally published in the April 1980 issue of Analog Science Fiction/Science Fact. Later, Martin expanded the story to publish alongside a story by Vernor Vinge in a standalone volume. In 1987, director Robert Collector adapted the novella into a film; Syfy has since purchased the rights. Unlike with Game of Thrones, Martin won’t be involved in the series’s production, due to his exclusive contract with HBO.
Martin says Nightflyers will be shot in the Republic of Ireland, and suggests Syfy could cast some of the same Irish or British actors who appear in Game of Thrones, since they’re in the same area. “And considering how many characters we've killed, a lot of them should be available,” he jokes.
Over the past few years, Syfy has renewed its push into space-driven shows, such as The Expanse, Killjoys, and Dark Matter. Last fall, the network announced it was canceling Dark Matter immediately, while Killjoys would get two final seasons to round out its story. The move likely means Syfy will keep a couple of space-based shows on its schedule, and Martin says the network is putting “substantial” resources into the show, one that “should allow them to create a show that looks as good as modern audiences expect.”


Uber’s deputy general counsel Angela Padilla took the stand on Wednesday to respond to a damning 37-page letter that outlined a litany of questionable security practices alleged by a former employee.
In her testimony, Padilla said the employee, Richard Jacobs, was trying to extort money from the company and there was no merit to his claims. Padilla and Jacobs were ordered by a judge presiding over Alphabet’s lawsuit against Uber to testify in court after the judge was notified about the letter.
As a result of this new evidence, Judge Alsup granted Waymo’s request for a delay in the trial. The trial, which originally set for December 4, will begin February 5.
In it, Jacobs claimed Uber’s security team advised staffers to use ephemeral messaging systems, like Wickr, and non-attributable devices to avoid creating paper trails that may serve to hurt the company in the event of a lawsuit.
In a tweet, Uber’s new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi confirmed that the company used Wickr   and Telegram before he joined and he instructed them to stop when he joined.
True that Wickr, Telegram were used often at Uber when I came in.  As of Sept 27th I directed my teams NOT to use such Apps when discussing Uber-related business.
The letter — submitted to the court just days before the companies were expected to begin the trial — may be doubly problematic for Uber.
For one, Alphabet’s self-driving arm Waymo is already asking a judge to instruct the jury that Uber withholding evidence can be used against the company as it decides its verdict. The jury has yet to be selected. Both the delay in disclosing the letter to the court and the contents of the letter, if true, may serve to bolster that request.
Padilla, however, said the company hired an outside investigator, WilmerHale, to look into the letter, and said she would have disclosed it to the court if that investigation had revealed anything relevant to the suit.
Alphabet is suing Uber for allegedly misappropriating self-driving trade secrets. The company discovered a former engineer, Anthony Levandowski, had downloaded 14,000 files days before he left to start a company called Otto. Uber later acquired that company.
While Uber contends Jacobs’ letter is both meritless and unrelated to Waymo’s case, company security officer Mat Henley later testified that Levandowski and his co-founder Lior Ron both used Wickr to communicate.
"Today's hearing changed nothing about the facts of Waymo's case, and did nothing to support their claims that Uber is using their alleged trade secrets,” an Uber spokesperson said. “We look forward to our day in court and are as confident in the merits of our case as ever."
Oddly, Uber settled with Jacobs for $4.5 million, according to his testimony on Tuesday. One million dollars of that sum was paid to Jacobs as a consulting fee for aiding in an internal investigation at Uber. Jacobs’s lawyer, Padilla later testified, also received $3 million in addition to the $4.5 million sum.
Padilla said the company chose to settle with Jacobs in order to avoid the cost of litigation as well as any additional distraction it would cause for the company. The cost of discovery alone in that case would have cost $4 million to $5 million, Padilla testified.
“You saw it was a fantastic BS letter ... and yet you paid $4.5 million,” Judge Alsup said to Padilla, interrupting the Waymo attorney’s questioning of the witness to offer his own. “To someone like me, an ordinary mortal ... that’s a lot of money. ... People don’t pay that kind of money for BS. That’s one point. And you certainly don’t hire them as consultants if you think everything they’ve got to contribute is BS.”
“We had to continue an entire trial because of your decision,” Alsup continued. “You wanted this case to go to trial so that they didn’t have the benefit of this document, that’s how it looks."
Padilla responded the company escalated it to executives and board members, including Uber’s ousted CEO Travis Kalanick and former chief legal counsel Salle Yoo, as well as current and former board members Garrett Camp, Ryan Graves, David Bonderman, Bill Gurley and Arianna Huffington.
Alsup said, however, it still should have been produced to Waymo’s lawyers. Padilla conceded the point and said she “would take full responsibility for that.”
The company, Padilla said, also voluntarily disclosed the letter to the U.S. attorney of the Northern District of California and several federal state prosecutors because she thought they were being extorted.
Jacobs’ attorney wrote the letter after the company saw that he was downloading Uber documents to his personal computer, Padilla said. When the company asked him about it, he resigned.
Related
Henley, who was also Jacobs’ supervisor, says he was a poor performer and had to be demoted, during his testimony on Wednesday. That’s contrary to Jacobs’ Tuesday testimony wherein he said he was demoted after Henley claimed he wasn’t working with the legal enough to protect company information from being submitted into court.
Jacobs’ letter read:
"Jacobs experienced this review and demotion as pure retaliation for his refusal to buy into the Threat Ops culture of achieving business goals through illegal conduct, even though equally aggressive legal means were available to achieve the same end."
Henley went on to say that the company does not currently do technical surveillance of competitors and has discontinued use of Wickr. Questions over the validity of Jacobs’ claims continue to loom as both Uber executives have disputed many of the allegations in his letter and Jacobs himself walked back some of them during his testimony on Tuesday.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.



The line separating movies and games has grown increasingly thin over the past decade. The generation of filmmakers that grew up on gaming have incorporated visual cues and stylistic techniques from the medium, and some games can offer a more satisfying, dynamic narrative experience than the average summer blockbuster. But perhaps nothing has tried to so literally combine the two as Planet of the Apes: Last Frontier, which is out now on the PlayStation 4.
Set before Matt Reeve’s War for the Planet of the Apes, the game follows two interconnected narratives. On one hand, a group of intelligent apes grapple with the growing conflict between themselves and humanity (and the internal power struggles that result). On the human side, a mother tries to lead her small community, and protect her son, while navigating the moral complexities of a world in which there are no clear choices between right and wrong.
The narrative conceit perfectly evokes the films, but the gaming element is where things get intriguing. Last Frontier takes an even more cinematic approach than the works of Telltales Games, the studio behind interactive takes on The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones. Over the course of the game’s three- to four-hour run time, there are no puzzles to solve or levels to explore. Instead, the interactive focus is almost entirely on making key decisions that shape how the story unfolds. When you match this concept with the motion-capture and performance work intrinsic to the Apes films, the result is something that is part movie, part game, and part proof of concept.
So, of course, we had one of The Verge’s games critics and one of our film critics sit down to discuss what worked, and what didn’t, in Planet of the Apes: Last Frontier.
Bryan Bishop: I came to Last Frontier primarily as someone who has enjoyed the Planet of the Apes film franchise. I’ve played various Telltale titles, and when it comes to gaming, I generally find myself drawn toward titles like Beyond: Two Souls, or even the Uncharted franchise — experiences that are very clearly trying to evoke the same feeling one gets while watching a film.
But Last Frontier is definitely something a little bit different. Developed by The Imaginarium, the production company founded by Apes star Andy Serkis, and released by FoxNext, this isn’t just a game that feels vaguely cinematic. It’s an experience with a story that I thought could have actually worked as a traditional film (and in certain moments, may have even been better if it had been one). But the big question comes down to whether the game’s creators have come up with something that feels like it combines movies and games into something somewhat new. I think that answer has to be yes. What was your initial reaction, Andrew?
Andrew Webster: I went into Lost Frontier hoping for a more extreme version of the Telltale formula. Those games have always felt like interactive TV shows mashed together with classic point-and-click adventure games, complete with lots of fiddly puzzles to solve. But the interesting parts were always the choices: determining who lived or died in The Walking Dead, or deciding how Bruce Wayne should act in Batman.
Lost Frontier feels like a step toward that long-sought-after goal of making a playable movie. It just doesn’t quite go far enough for me. Most of your time is split between watching the story unfold, and making choices for various characters that can change the story. Some story and design issues aside, those aspects are great. But the developers also stuffed in a handful of game mechanics, particularly during the action sequences, so that you have to act quickly in order to shoot an attacking ape or put out a fire after an attack.
The problem is these kinds of mechanics alter how you experience the story. At times, I’d sit back to enjoy a particularly tense scene, only to be thrust unexpectedly into a pretty uninteresting action sequence. The two sides just never seemed to fully blend together. How did you get on with the more game-y elements?
BB: I thought they were fine unto themselves. When I actually felt like I was in the head of the lead ape, Bryn, I instinctually wanted to jump in and take part in the sequences. Similarly, deciding to not take action — this story toys with shades-of-gray questions about whether to commit violence or not — was challenging, but in a way that I thought evoked what the character would have been feeling. There are several moments in this game where it would be much easier to opt for the violent solution to a problem, and the frustration of holding back worked really well for me.
But you’re also hitting upon something that didn’t: pacing. The first half of the game is filled with opportunities to interact. Deciding how to respond in a conversation, or choosing whether to search for food on a mountain that’s safe for the apes, or go down to the plains where they run the risk of encountering people; there are choices everywhere. But the second half of the game seems to ditch that almost entirely. There are long stretches where I was just leaning back, watching this real-time movie unfold. When I say that Last Frontier could have worked as a standalone movie, I really mean it. And at times, I couldn’t help but wonder if that was how it had initially been conceived.
Properly setting expectations is a really important element that this game doesn’t really get right. If I’m expecting to jump in every few minutes and that’s what happens, I’m engaged. It it doesn’t, as an audience member I get frustrated and start to tune out. I had similar concerns about the way in which the game randomly switches between actionable characters. For the bulk of things, you’re playing as either Bryn, a principled ape, or Jess Ross, a woman leading a small town. But every so often — usually in the midst of an action scene — the game will somewhat randomly give you the opportunity to make choices on behalf of a totally different character. Did this bug you at all?
AW: Yeah, this happens a number of times, and it gets confusing because the game never clearly communicates that a switch has happened. One minute you’re a human escaping an attack, the next you’re the ape in pursuit. It’s jarring, and I often made a choice I didn’t intend because of the confusion.
It’s one of a handful of strange design decisions that holds the experience back, which is frustrating, because for the most part I enjoyed what the game was trying to do. I found myself connecting with both of the leads, Jess and Bryn, and I played the whole thing in one sitting because I just had to know what happened at the end. There’s also an irresistible layer of tension that doesn’t exist in film; it’s a lot more stressful when you have to make the important decisions yourself, as opposed to just watching Byrn do whatever he thinks is best for the tribe. Last Frontier does a good job at not making any one choice the clear and obvious “correct” option, and I genuinely struggled with deciding the best course of action during many scenes.
Unfortunately, moral dilemmas weren’t the only thing I had to fight against in the game. Lost Frontier also suffers from a myriad of technical issues: textures that pop in at the last minute, jittery transitions that cut off the introductory moments of scenes, and, in at least one insistence for me, my PS4 actually crashed just as I made a pivotal decision.
It seems that every time I really started to enjoy the game, something — a weird pacing issue, a jarring technical hiccup — would get in the way. Was I just unlucky, or did you hit these technical snags, too?
BB: I experienced them as well — and I think we may have had the exact same crash, when making a rather harrowing choice next to some train tracks. (Nothing says “immersion” like steeling yourself to actually kill somebody… only to be dumped to your console’s error report screen.) I also saw the same problems with texture pop-in. Sometimes an ape would start a screen looking like some terrifying, talking blob of plastic, only to be fully realized moments later — though it should be said that when they’re working, both the apes and humans are really well-done in this game.
I’m generally pretty forgiving about this kind of thing, but the fact that Last Frontier is banking on its cinematic feel made it hard to overlook in this case. It would ruin War for the Planet of the Apes if Caesar looked like a talking wax doll at the top of every scene, and I found myself expecting the same level of seamlessness when playing the game.
There was another thing that I found myself bothered by regularly, but this is actually a testament to how well the game works overall, rather than being a simple gripe. It goes back to the narrative structure Last Frontier employs. As we discussed earlier, there are parallel ape and human storylines, with the game cross-cutting between the two. It’s how things largely work in the films, and it goes give the game’s writers the opportunity to explore both sides of the conflict.
But when dealing with a narrative adventure like this one, forming a bond with the character you’re controlling is vital. I didn’t just want to choose between this phrase or that; I wanted to emotionally identify with the struggles, so that when something didn’t go as expected, I felt it on a gut level. I wanted to be invested — and cross-cutting between two stories worked against this. It was almost as if I felt perpetually unable to identify with either character, because as soon as I was drawn into one storyline, the game would inevitably cut away.
This isn’t a problem in films because we never have agency in movies. We’re just watching things happen. In games, there’s a different dynamic. I had a similar issue with Star Wars Battlefront II’s single-player campaign every time it would cut away from the story of Iden Versio. I found myself wanting a story that would allow for me the opportunity to take on a single role for the entire running time, giving the story more of a chance to make an impact.
Agency as a way to inspire emotional investment is a fascinating thing, and I’ve really been affected by it in immersive theater and alternate reality games. I’m eager to see what games like this can do when they really embrace that concept, because there’s so much potential here.
AW: I agree. The execution of Last Frontier is far from perfect, but the potential is so interesting that it’s worth checking out. The aspects that don’t work — the pacing, the bolted-on gameplay, the technical problems — aren’t so much an issue with the concept as with this game in particular. Fix those, and you could end up with something really special.


Warning: this piece contains extremely graphic descriptions of sexual assault and/or violence
For the last several years, Morgan Marquis-Boire was widely considered a rock star of the cybersecurity world. He was known as one of the “good guys,” an activist committed to progressive causes and the protection of digital privacy and human rights. Within the goth scene in Auckland, New Zealand, he DJed at goth events, where his bombastic personality and good looks earned him popularity and notoriety within a small and insular subculture.
But for me, and for many people in that scene, he also had a very different reputation: as a man who liked to sexually assault young women.
This past October, after receiving a report of a sexual assault by Marquis-Boire, the University of Toronto's Citizen Lab announced that it was cutting ties with him; progressive organizations like the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), First Look Media, and the Freedom of the Press Foundation did the same. Further reporting by The Verge corroborated multiple accounts of sexual violence and coercion committed by Marquis-Boire, spanning from the United States to New Zealand. The mounting allegations sent digital shock waves through cybersecurity communities, where he had been elevated to star status.
I know of Marquis-Boire’s conduct through painful personal experience. When I was a teenager, two women I was close with told me that Marquis-Boire had raped them. Later, he physically assaulted me when I tried to stand up to him. In recent years, numerous women have reached out to me with more accounts of his assaults. I cannot express what it has been like to watch his star rise, to see him paraded around by tech and hacktivist communities as a defender of human rights and watch as people took his word as gospel, while at the same time knowing he was hurting women.
One day, before Citizen Lab publicly announced they had severed their relationship, I posted a message on Twitter saying that he’d raped people I knew, and “broke [so] many lives.” I had no idea the news was about to break in America, but I’d heard someone was about to speak out about him.
The next day, I woke to a barrage of journalists wanting to talk to me about Marquis-Boire. I guess no one cares until they do. I refused all interviews; I’ve waited at least 10 years to tell this story, and I wanted to tell it myself. I have no interest in centering myself in this narrative. I just want justice. I want to amplify the voices and stories of women he hurt so badly.
There are numerous women I know about who have suffered enormously at the hands of Marquis-Boire, and my hope is that over time many of their stories will be told and remembered. Here are the stories of three women who gave permission to have their stories told. They have waited many years to finally be heard.
As early as 2000, when I was 15, I heard rumors about Marquis-Boire drugging and sexually assaulting young women, and warnings to “stay away from him.” He was about six years older than I was, but we ran in similar social circles. People admired Marquis-Boire and wanted to be around him; he was charming and intelligent, and spoke generously about his passion for human rights and feminism. Though some people were enamored of him, others were also afraid of him, and how he could alter their status within the scene. Whatever their reason, too many people came away with the impression that those who accused him of assault were crazy, liars, or out to destroy the career and life of a promising young man.
Despite the awful rumors, the cult of personality around Marquis-Boire persisted because he would dismiss accusations of rape or assault by saying that the women making these claims were unbalanced or crazy. Many people within our subculture believed him over the women who spoke out. The women who tried to hold him to account were routinely called liars by him, and the wider community. It is much easier to believe a woman is crazy than confront the truth that someone you know and like is capable of such unfathomable violence. Many of his friends and the wider subculture were willing to ignore his supposed “bad behavior,” to avoid making waves or risk losing his friendship.
Personally, I took the rumors about him as testimony and stayed well away from him. But in 2002, I began dating Marquis-Boire’s then-best friend, Carl Purvis. At the time, Marquis-Boire was dating a 20-year-old woman, whom I’ll call Emma. (She wished to remain anonymous for this piece.) Emma would become a lifelong friend, and over the years we continued to talk to each other about Marquis-Boire, and what he had done to us and other women. The Verge attempted to reach Carl Purvis, but he did not reply to a request for comment.
After the Marquis-Boire news broke in October, I asked Emma if she was ready to tell her story publicly. We sometimes talked about what it might feel like if everything finally came out about the abuse she’d suffered during their two-year relationship, which began in 2001. She told me that her relationship with him was “always sexually coercive.” I was present for one instance of physical assault: during a goth gig at Auckland’s Galatos events center in 2003, he beat her with a cane.
“After he’d whacked me several times with a short cane, he chased me into the women’s toilets,” Emma wrote me in an email. “I had to lock myself in a cubicle while people outside calmed him down, which wasn’t an entirely unfamiliar scene to people in our social circles.”
Others witnessed Marquis-Boire attack Emma with the cane, and one observer was hit herself. “Morgan was walking around that night and had like a cane and he kept hitting people with it and it [the cane] was really fucking heavy and it really fucking hurt,” she said. “And I know this because he smacked me across the back of the bare legs with it.”
Emma recalls the response to the incident from her peers being divided between laughing at Marquis-Boire being a “terrible drunk,” and dismissing Emma for being “such a drama queen.”
Some months after the cane attack, Emma, Marquis-Boire, and I, were out at a pub when he began shoving and cornering Emma. The fight spilled out onto the street. I stepped in between them to protect Emma, and Marquis-Boire shoved me, then flung me across the pavement, where I smashed my head against the concrete.
Following this incident, I became an outspoken critic of Marquis-Boire’s behavior. I’d seen him up close and personal, and what I saw was a man who was abusing and hurting women, myself included. I could not stay silent anymore. A few months later, during a party, Marquis-Boire showed up. Right there and then, I publicly named him as an abuser. I recall saying in front of him and many people in the goth scene that he was an “abuser” and that he had hurt both me and Emma. The same evening, Marquis-Boire made a threat that he wanted to kill me, graphically describing how “I’ll stab her in the side and she will bleed right out.”
Shortly after the October news about Marquis-Boire began circulating in New Zealand, I was contacted by a woman from Auckland who met him through mutual friends in 2001 when she was a teenager. She preferred to stay anonymous for this article, so I will call her Tilda. We arranged a time to meet at her house, and a few days later, on a humid day, we sat down on her couch and she told me her story.
Initially, she said, Marquis-Boire flattered her with compliments and attention. Tilda agreed to sleep with Marquis-Boire, but during the act he tried to coerce her into having anal sex with him.
“I was really sexually naïve. I was a young teenager and he was trying to get me to do things I didn’t want to do, namely, anal,” Tilda told me.
After this encounter, Tilda decided she did not want to sleep with him again, but they remained friends and things seemed civil. One evening, they were watching movies at Marquis-Boire’s house and having drinks. The next thing she remembers, it was morning. She woke up in Marquis-Boire’s room. He was lying beside her.
“I think he thought, ‘Okay, if I can’t get it consensually from her, I am just going to take it,’” Tilda said.
Recounting the night to me, Tilda snapped her fingers, and said she had lost an entire evening. She couldn’t remember anything. She couldn’t even find her underwear.
“All of a sudden it was the morning and everything hurt, and I remember my groin and rectum hurt, and I didn’t know what had been going on, and my clothes felt weird and everything felt tight and twisted around,” she said.
She started to panic and asked him, “Where is my underwear? Where is my underwear?”
He responded, “You were much more relaxed last night.”
“Everything felt foggy and I couldn’t remember anything,” Tilda told me. “I couldn’t remember how I had got there, and then suddenly I realized what Morgan was saying that we had slept together.”
“I didn’t want to sleep with you,” she had told him.
She tried to tell people that Marquis-Boire had raped her, but says most of those she told insisted she must have led him on.
“No one believed me. No one ever said, ‘Hey man, that really sucks. You know, he is an awful person.’ Even though him being a rapist was an open fucking secret. I’d heard so many rumors about him raping girls in the toilets.” In a personal message, Emma wrote me that Marquis-Boire used to pull her into bar toilets and public toilets in parks. “I believe there was a large element of degradation to it which excited him.”
Soon after this incident, Tilda was forced to leave Auckland because some of Marquis-Boire’s closest friends started bullying her in response to her speaking out about the assault. Tilda explains, “I was absolutely terrified and I couldn’t deal with all these older people basically wanting to run me out of town. I was so scared I actually ended up moving to Wellington.”
After a few years in Wellington, she returned in 2006.  She tried to avoid Marquis-Boire, but they still ran in the same social circles. One night, Tilda was invited to a party and he walked into the room. She was unaware he lived there. “[I felt] like a rat in a cage with a snake,” she said. Once again, she lost a chunk of time.
“The last thing I remember doing is pouring myself a drink in the kitchen, and the next thing I knew was I was in a bed and my face was being pushed into a pillow.”
She recalls trying to say “stop what are you doing,” but it came out as a gurgled mess. Her arms and legs felt heavy, but she managed to resist for some time. She continued to struggle, but then she felt something hard against her tailbone and realized it was Marquis-Boire who was pushing her down.
“He shoved my legs open,” she told me. Tilda stopped recounting the story and began to sob. Up until this point I’d been trying hard to hold myself together, but I couldn’t anymore. I broke down with her and took her hand and held it as tightly as I possibly could. I asked her if she needed a break, if she wanted to stop the recording. She said “no” and picked up where she left off.
“He shoved my legs apart and he kept patting my head and saying ‘shhh,’ and he shoved his penis really hard inside of me and I felt my rectum tear.”
“I started screaming and tried to struggle, but he just started punching me in the head… like one, two, three… ” She made swinging motions with her arm and a closed fist, “like, three really quick, hard punches.”
After that, Tilda said she went limp. Once he had finished, she just lay there crying while he kissed her and patted her on the head. She recalls him saying, “Oh you have always been such a good girl.”
With those words, she blacked out. The next morning, she woke up on his couch and could feel dried blood between her legs. A blanket had been tossed over her. Marquis-Boire walked out and told her she had to leave because his girlfriend would be there soon, and that “she can’t know we hooked up.”
“I seriously considered throwing myself naked off the balcony,” she said. “After he left, I honestly opened the door to throw myself off the balcony and just end it. But then I remembered my mum and my sister and my Dad and didn’t want to do that to them.”
I had heard about Tilda’s story many years ago, before she told me the gut-wrenching specifics.
Tilda says he made it very clear to her that if he wanted to use his hacking skills against her, he would and could. “Morgan had shown me many times he could get into anyone’s computer and, ‘I can ruin anyone's life that I want to with a click of the fingers,’” Tilda said.
I’ll never forget the day I read in an article that he was researching “spouseware,” domestic surveillance used mostly by men to control and monitor their partners, when he himself had used his tech skills as another tool for scaring women into silence.
Soon after Tilda came forward, Tove Partington updated her Facebook status alleging that Marquis-Boire had raped her. I contacted her over Facebook Messenger, and she expressed that she wanted to go on the record with her real name. She, like Tilda, had engaged in what was at first a casual and sexual relationship with Marquis-Boire in early 2003 when she was 16 years old. Partington told me that she was part of the punk scene in Auckland, but would sometimes attend goth gigs and ran in similar circles as Marquis-Boire. She explains that, at first, their sexual relationship was consensual, but over time this changed.
“The first time I woke up to him raping me I thought, ‘Well, maybe he has a high sex drive and he thinks I have a high sex drive. So, maybe, I gave mixed signals?’” Partington said.  “It’s just that he kept pushing his behavior further and further. Every time I slept over at his place I kept waking up to him raping me.”
She found it incredibly confusing and upsetting. “I knew it was rape,” she said. Partington says it was hard for her to understand Marquis-Boire’s actions, because he had won her trust and she considered him not only an intimate partner, but a friend, and she continued to date him casually. She tried to bring up how his behavior was making her feel, but he would respond by telling her that he thought she was “into it,” and could tell she “loved it.” He would say he cared for Partington, while at the same time violating consent and pushing sexual boundaries.
“What people still forget is how fucking charming he is. You know it is easy to say, to call him a monster because he is a monster,” Tove explains. “But you know, he was also my friend. And that was what was so hard, to reconcile the two Morgans: the one who refused to listen to you when you begged him to stop, or the one who just wanted to drink and have fun.”
Marquis-Boire eventually went overseas and their relationship ended, but the two kept in touch. In 2009, he returned, and Tove ran into him at a gig at an Auckland bar called Whammy. The two were arguing about something in the hallway where the toilets were located when he grabbed her and pulled her into a toilet cubicle. Tove tells me she said “No, I’m not doing this,” but he began taking her tights and skirt down, ignoring what she had said. Parington’s voice began to shake as she described to me what happened next.
“[He] sodomized me and I begged him to stop because it was hurting me. I screamed  because it was hurting me. But he wouldn’t stop,” she said.
She tells me that her screams were muffled as his hand was wrapped around her neck and she was struggling to breathe, but she managed to ask him to stop. He wouldn’t. After he was finished, they both left the bar and Marquis-Boire made “lighthearted jokes” about what had just occurred, much to Partington’s horror.
Partington says that when she shared her experience with others,  she was told she must have “led him on,” while his friends told her she was a liar. I asked her if she felt alone in speaking out.
“I don’t think I felt left alone with it all because everyone fucking knew,” she said. “It wasn’t that I was left alone with it. It was that no one cared. Everyone fucking knew about it.”
For over a decade, I’ve confirmed to anyone who might listen that the rumors about him were far more than just rumors. In response, I have been ostracized, called a liar, and of course, my personal favorite, “crazy.” Only now are people starting to listen.
In the weeks since the news about Marquis-Boire broke, people who were part of the Auckland goth scene all those years ago have sent me personal messages apologizing, saying they heard the rumors that he had hurt women back then and did nothing. The Verge attempted to reach Morgan Marquis-Boire, but he did not reply to a request for comment.
“It never felt like a secret that Morgan had a problem in his relations with women. And it didn’t matter if you believed he raped women, or you had just witnessed bad behavior,” a friend of his in the goth scene told me. “It never felt like a secret to me. It never felt like an open secret to me. I thought we all knew.”
Throughout this investigation into Morgan Marquis-Boire’s behavior and history, I have been asked the same question (with slight variations) over and over again: “How did so many people hear about what he was doing, and yet so few did anything to stop him?” The situation rarely makes sense to those looking in. People simply had a vested interest in ignoring his behavior. Marquis-Boire was good-looking and highly intelligent; he had a magnetic charisma that attracted people. Even as a young man, he held status and power and his social standing protected him from being accountable until now.
What compounded all of this was that many people within our scene were aware of what happened to those who did speak out; we were brutally harassed and ostracized for our courage. Very few people wanted to follow suit and stand up to Marquis-Boire. The consequences were too severe. People will often abandon their morals and principles once they become an inconvenience.
The complicity in the community enabled Marquis-Boire to hurt women with impunity. It allowed him to become the Marquis-Boire the larger public knew, the so-called human rights defender of the internet, while simultaneously earning a very different nickname from some women in Auckland: “Morgan the Rapist.” It let him be lauded as a hacktivist hero, some kind of crusader for digital freedom, even as he denied women their most basic freedoms from abuse and assault.
But now, finally, we are being heard, and justice is beginning to be served. I have been told by the woman who first spoke out to Toronto’s Citizen Lab that he will “never work in cybersecurity again.” It has taken nearly two decades for Marquis-Boire to face any consequences for the cataclysmic pain and hurt he has caused. Finally, he is losing the social status he should have lost long ago.
Even before the news broke about him in the American media, he began talking about changing his ways. I was told by a woman close to him he has been in therapy for his “issues” since as early as 2014 and claims he will continue to seek help. In a Facebook post from July of this year, he admitted he’d treated his partners badly and was now reflecting on his past behavior, which was both “painful” and “terrifying” and “necessary.” He was going to “meetings” for his drinking.
His claims of sobriety and promises to seek treatment just don’t ring true to me. They sound like a desperate man willing to say anything he thinks might get him off the hook. He had nearly two decades to correct his behavior, and he was called out countless times, including by me. In response, he threatened to kill me, bullied women such as Tilda into silence, and used his friends by proxy to further intimidate and shut women down who spoke out.
Marquis-Boire is not the victim here, and I don’t believe he can get better. In the end, I don’t care about his “rehabilitation.” What I care about are the women Marquis-Boire has hurt. What needs to happen now is that we all need to get better as a society. We need to get better at standing with women who speak out, instead of gaslighting and assassinating the characters of those who dare raise their voices saying “me, too.”
We aren’t alone anymore. Since the news broke, I’ve talked to many women in America and New Zealand who he has raped, bashed, and hurt. Our numbers are growing and we are organizing. We are collectively coming for you, Morgan, armed with our stories, our courage, and each other.
In October 2008, I went to a goth bar in Auckland, and it would be the last time I would ever see Morgan Marquis-Boire face-to-face. In front of his then-girlfriend, he started shoving and pushing me, until Purvis, who by this stage was my ex-partner, intervened and took me aside and said something I will never, ever forget: “Morgan is shoving you because he is afraid of you. He knows you will never stay silent about what he has done.” Morgan was right to be afraid.










Bitcoin is back in the news as its price continues a meteoric rise, with the cost of a single coin breaking $10,000 yesterday. Today, it was reported by several major publications that NASDAQ, the second largest stock exchange in the world, plans to launch futures contracts for Bitcoin next year. That would allow investors to bet on the rise and fall of the cryptocurrency, profiting if they are correct about the direction of its future price.
NASDAQ is hardly the first player from the traditional finance world to jump on the Bitcoin bandwagon. At the start of this month, Chicago’s CME Group said it would begin providing futures contracts on bitcoin as well. As The Verge reported this morning, while many well-known bankers and investors continue to deride Bitcoin as a bubble or a Ponzi scheme, almost every major financial institution has been exploring how they might interact with Bitcoin and its underlying structure, the blockchain.
The introduction of various financial products around Bitcoin will amplify the amount of risk investors can take. Cantor Fitzgerald, a large broker which owns an exchange, announced today that it plans to launch Bitcoin derivatives in the first half of 2018. Futures and derivatives allow investors to place bets on bitcoin without owning any of the actual currency, amplifying the amount of financial leverage on the underlying asset. It was an explosion of derivatives pegged to real estate assets like mortgages that underpinned the financial collapse of 2008.
As Bitcoin continues to mint new millionaires, real-world applications for the currency and the underlying technology have so far remained niche. There are countless startups attempting to use bitcoin, blockchains, and other cryptocurrencies. Fueling a lot of this exuberance has been initial coin offerings, where investors can buy virtual tokens in lieu of more traditional equity. This year alone, ICOs have raised hundreds of millions of dollars, passing traditional venture capital as a source of funds.
As veteran investor and financial analyst Josh Brown wrote on his, none of this is likely to change soon:
“These people aren’t going anywhere. Crypto is here to stay. It doesn’t matter if most of the ICOs see their token prices crash by 90% (which is what I think will happen). Walking the halls and having people come up to me to explain their projects, I came to the realization that price crashes alone will not drive these people out. They’ve got business cards, and signs and LLCs and money raised and there will undoubtedly be projects that become real companies, even if the majority disappear. This is how all capitalism works. The crash of the internet economy at the turn of the century didn’t kill the internet itself. Google came around four years later. Three years after that, the iPhone came out. Then Facebook and Twitter. These are all post-crash. So if you’re sick of hearing about crypto, the bad news is that it’s going to be a part of the world for the foreseeable future.”
Predicting exactly when the Bitcoin bubble will burst, as it has many times before, is impossible. But pretty soon, the world’s most venerable exchanges will let you start placing bets.


Microsoft is providing its second Windows 10 statistics update this year, announcing that 600 million devices are now running the company’s latest operating system. The number includes PCs, tablets, Xbox One consoles, HoloLens headsets, and even Surface Hub devices and phones. GeekWire reports that Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella revealed the latest figures during the company’s annual shareholders meeting today.
Microsoft had originally planned to get Windows 10 running on 1 billion devices by 2018. The software giant eventually gave up on that ambitious goal last year, and admitted it will take longer to hit the 1 billion target. How much longer is still unclear, as growth has stalled ever since Microsoft withdrew its free Windows 10 upgrade offer. Microsoft revealed its 500 million figure earlier this year, and the company confirmed that it has given up on Windows Phone recently. There’s now little hope that phones will ever contribute a large amount of aim of a billion devices running Windows 10.
Microsoft still appears to be on target to hit its revised milestone figures though. Sources told The Verge earlier this year that Microsoft was targeting 550 million active Windows 10 devices by the end of June, and 575 million by the end of September. Hitting 600 million by the end of November fits this new plan, but it’s not clear exactly when the big billion target will ever be met.


It was Thanksgiving, and the two worst trip planners in the world (me and my boyfriend), were frantically Googling “thanksgiving weekend getaways” to no avail. Rental car locations were closed, or their cars had all been booked for the weekend. I decided to try out ReachNow, BMW’s car-sharing service, which launched last year in Seattle, Portland, and most recently, Brooklyn. Our plan was to leave the next morning at 9AM for Oheka Castle in Long Island (where Taylor Swift stood on a horse for her “Blank Space” music video). I was pumped to get out of the city after being car-less in New York for so long.
ReachNow’s biggest appeal over its competitors may be its fleet of BMW 3 Series and Mini Coopers, an advantage over Car2Go’s smart cars and the majority of ZipCar’s lineup, which is made up of sensible Hondas. In Brooklyn, Mini Coopers appeared to make up the majority of the 250-car fleet, which is still a step up over a smart car. Driving a Car2Go, I felt every bump in the road, and was plagued with a sense of dread as I imagined how many times the smart car would flip in the air if it were hit by a truck.
The next morning, I opened up the ReachNow app and discovered a Mini Cooper parked a few blocks away. You can reserve the car 30 minutes in advance, but we arrived at the car just as time ran out, and the car declared itself unable to be reserved for another two hours. I called Member Support through the app, and it was surprisingly easy to get to a human on the line. I explained the situation, and within 30 seconds, the car was unlocked and we were ready to start our trip.
Membership is a one-time fee of $39, which is currently waived during its initial launch period. If you want to go for a quick drive, pricing is 41 cents / minute while driving, and 30 cents / minute while parked. If you want to keep the car for a little longer, price caps range from a couple hours ($100 for six hours) to a few days ($550 for a maximum period of five days). Insurance is included, toll fees are covered with an E-ZPass in every car, and you only have to fill up gas if you end your trip with less than five miles’ worth of fuel remaining. (You can check how much fuel a car has before you pick it up, so you’re not stuck gassing it up on your own dime during a trip.)
Once you sign up for a membership, you’ll be mailed a physical member key that can unlock the car in case your phone is low on battery, or if there’s poor cellphone reception. It’s not necessary to have it when you start a trip, though, since everything can be done through the app.
Like Car2Go, ReachNow allows one-way trips, which lets you park the car anywhere within your home area when you’re done using it. It sounds like a better deal than services like ZipCar, where you have to return the car back to its designated parking space. But if you’re living in a congested city with strict parking rules and insane weekly street-cleaning schedules, it can be hard to find a parking spot to leave your car. On our way back home, we wanted to stop by the popular, touristy Brooklyn Bridge area, and spent about 30 minutes looking for a parking spot. Eventually, we gave up and just headed home to end the trip. I’m glad we didn’t risk anything, because leaving my house the next morning, I spotted a Car2Go parked in front with a ticket wedged in the window.
The entire trip cost $123.32, including tax, for about six hours, which is more expensive than just renting a car for a whole day. But I didn’t need to drop off the car during rental car location hours, and the whole process was convenient and easy, minus the struggle to find parking in my neighborhood. The car was mostly clean, with just a few dead leaves here and there on the floor. If you ever need a quick ride to run some errands, or you want to take a day trip to the hallowed (blank) space where a famous woman once stood on a horse, ReachNow is good for that.
ReachNow currently has about 50,000 members across three cities, according to the company website. Shortly after it launched in Brooklyn last November, it hit a small bump due to maintenance issues and BMW temporarily suspended service for a few months. In the company’s defense, one-way car-sharing is a relatively new convenience that companies are still trying to figure out. Just this past May, GM started its own car-sharing service Maven in New York City, and last month, the aggregation app Free2Move launched to help customers find and compare car-sharing services and determine which one works best for them at certain times.
My only gripe with ReachNow is that the “Home Area” is limited to Brooklyn, so you can’t end your trip in Manhattan, which is only a few miles away from my home. Being able to end your trip in a street parking zone is nice, but designated parking spots might be a good idea, too. In comparison, Car2Go “Home Areas” are limited to Brooklyn and Queens, while ZipCar has the widest net, with rental locations in parts of New Jersey and all five New York boroughs. Since ReachNow is just starting out with fewer members, its cars are cleaner and in better condition, and if I had to choose a car-sharing service to rely on in New York, I’d go with ReachNow. But Car2Go did just announce they’re replacing their fleet of smart cars with Mercedes-Benz vehicles, so really, we as customers have nothing to lose in trying out all the options available to us. I’m ready to make the car-sharing services fight for my love.


For the last couple years, if an author wanted to promote their new novel, one reliable way would be using Goodreads, a social media site for booklovers, to set up a giveaway contest. Readers could enter the contest with the click of a button, and the author or publisher would be responsible for mailing out the copy when the contest ended. Up until now, the feature has been free to authors and publishers, but today, Goodreads announced that it will begin charging authors and publishers to give away their books. Conversely, the program has become incredibly popular, and the fees will undoubtably help filter out some of the noise that some authors have complained about.
The giveaway contests are an excellent way for authors to drum up some buzz for their book. (I did it myself with an anthology that I edited a couple of years ago.) When you or a friend enters a contest, it shows up on your timeline, helping to boost the site’s exposure. The feature also allows authors and publishers to get the books into the hands of non-reviewers (i.e., regular readers), who are then encouraged to post a review, usually before the book’s publication date.
Now, Goodreads is aiming to monetize the feature. The site is introducing two tiers for giveaways: a “standard” package, which will cost authors $119 to give away up to 100 copies; and a “premium” package, which will cost $599, but gives the author an “exclusive placement” on its Giveaways page. That’s only for a single giveaway campaign, however; if you’re marketing two books, you’ll have to pay again. (Goodreads is offering some introductory pricing: between January 9th and 31st, standard packages will be $59, while the premium tier will be $299.) It’ll also only be open to users who are US residents.
Up until now, authors and publishers have only been able to give away physical copies, but authors who publish through Amazon’s Kindle Direct Publishing program (Amazon owns Goodreads) will be able to list Kindle editions, something that was only open to established publishers. There’s some other useful perks for readers: both the standard and premium packages will automatically add a contest book to your Want-To-Read list, and users who have already added the book to the Want-To-Read list will be notified if it’s the subject of a contest. Winners will also be emailed eight weeks after the contest to review and rate the book. The new guidelines will begin on January 9th, 2018, and any giveaways started before then will run normally.
Unsurprisingly, some authors and readers are unhappy with the changes to the program. Goodreads has been a useful tool in the world of book discovery, as authors face an uphill battle of trying to get their names and titles out in an ever-increasingly crowded field. Now, they will have to pay to give away their own work. Lesley Conner, the managing editor for Apex Publications says that she thinks it’s a bad move on Goodreads’ part, and that running Goodreads promotions lately hasn’t been as useful.  (Disclaimer: Apex is the publisher of an anthology that I edited.) “This new change is like the proverbial nail in the coffin lid,” Conner told The Verge in an email. “We aren't going to spend the small marketing budget we have on a service that we've already noticed isn't that effective.”
In a statement to The Verge, a Goodreads spokesperson affirmed that indie authors and publishers were an “important part of the Goodreads community,” and that the program has been redesigned with input from authors and publishers. The company also notes that the cost of the tiers “reflects the marketing value we are providing to help authors and publishers drive interest and awareness of their books.”
With endless lists of books on retailers pages and on bookstore shelves, book discovery remains a challenge for authors, and Goodreads has been an incredibly useful tool for authors who don’t necessarily have the resources of a major book publisher, allowing their books to be listed alongside their heavyweight competition. These changes upend that. Smaller publishers and independent authors will be impacted the greatest: spending $200-$600 to give away one’s books just doesn’t make sense, especially when they can go onto their Twitter or Facebook pages and essentially run the same contest, even if they miss out on the ability to reach new readers through the site. By offering more attention to the authors and publishers who pay more to get their book prominently featured on the site, readers will only be able to easily discover books with the most marketing dollars behind them — which could leave indie authors and publishers in the dust.



Tesla’s Model 3, the most important car to come out in decades, has a confirmed range of 310 miles, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. That figure applies to the long-range version of the Model 3, and echoes the vehicle specs released by Tesla back in July. It also makes the Model 3 one of the most efficient passenger electric vehicles on the market.
The EPA’s range is used as the advertised figure for electric vehicles that are sold in the US. The 310-mile range is an estimate of the number of miles the vehicle should be able to travel in combined city and highway driving from a full charge. That’s 131 miles per gallon gasoline equivalent (MPGe) for city driving, 120 MPGe on the highway, and 126 MPGe combined.
You’ll have to pay more to get that extended range, though. Tesla said it would be selling a standard version of the Model 3, with just 220 miles of range, for $35,000. The long-range version will start at $44,000, the automaker says. Production on the standard version isn’t expected to begin until 2018.
Of course, that’s assuming you’ll be able to get any version of the Model 3 in the near future. In the last quarter, Tesla produced only 260 Model 3s; that’s about three cars a day and well behind a normal pace of about one car per minute. Earlier this month, Tesla pushed back its target for volume production on the Model 3 — widely seen as crucial to the company’s long-term future — by about three months to fix production bottlenecks.
Meanwhile, GM’s Chevy Bolt, the first battery-electric car to go on sale with more than 200 miles of range at a price of less than $40,000, has been increasing its sales each quarter. Last September, Chevy delivered a whopping 2,632 Bolt EVs in what is only the car's ninth full month on sale.



US spaceflight startup Rocket Lab is nearly ready to launch its experimental Electron rocket again. The vehicle is now scheduled to take off from New Zealand sometime during a 10-day launch window that begins on December 8th. It’ll mark the second flight of the Electron as part of the rocket’s rigorous testing program, meant to ready the vehicle for spaceflight.
Rocket Lab has been developing the Electron for four years now in order to launch small satellites. At just over 55 feet tall, the vehicle is easily overshadowed by other major commercial rockets like SpaceX’s 180-foot Falcon 9. But that’s because Rocket Lab’s goal is to only launch payloads weighing between 330 to 500 pounds. The company is offering cheap launches, too, starting at just $4.9 million, which is a small price compared to the tens or hundreds of millions of dollars that larger rockets usually cost. Rocket Lab even has its own private facility to launch from, located on the Mahia Peninsula in New Zealand.
But first, Rocket Lab has to show that its rocket actually works. The Electron successfully launched for the first time in May on a test mission appropriately named “It’s a Test.” While the rocket made it to space on that flight, it didn’t reach orbit. Later, Rocket Lab found out why: communication equipment on the ground briefly lost contact with the rocket during the launch, causing the flight to end early. The company claimed there was nothing wrong with the rocket itself, and if the equipment issue hadn’t occurred, the Electron would have reached orbit.
Now, the company is ready to go again. “We analyzed more than 25,000 channels of data from flight one, and we’re eager to learn more from this test flight,” Peter Beck, Rocket Lab’s CEO, said in a statement. Earlier this month, the second test vehicle arrived in New Zealand for the upcoming launch, aptly named “Still Testing.” And this time, the Electron will have payloads on board. The first flight just carried scientific instruments to collect data, but this second launch will have three small satellites: an Earth-imaging probe for the company Planet, as well as two weather and ship-tracking satellites for the company Spire.
It’s possible this could be Rocket Lab’s final test launch. Originally, the company had planned to do three test flights before the Electron was deemed ready for commercial missions, but Rocket Lab says it may skip the final test depending on how this one goes. If that does happen, the company could potentially get a jump start on its busy manifest, which Beck said was “overflowing.” A notable customer includes Moon Express, a private US company that is building a robotic lunar lander for the Google Lunar X Prize competition.
Eager space fans will get to watch this launch live, starting 15 minutes before the vehicle’s planned takeoff. Though it’s still uncertain exactly when that will be. Rocket Lab says four-hour launch windows will open every day during the 10-day testing period, each starting at 2:30PM NZT (or 8:30PM ET the previous day for us on the East Coast). And Rocket Lab warns that it will only launch if conditions are ideal, so people should expect lots of rescheduling.
“We’re expecting to scrub multiple times as we wait for perfect conditions and make sure everything on the vehicle is performing as it should,” says Beck. Those looking to see the Electron fly should keep an eye on Rocket Lab’s Twitter account, which will be providing real-time updates throughout the launch window.






Apple has just rolled out a security update for macOS High Sierra that fixes the major flaw that was publicly disclosed yesterday. A support page for the patch, Security Update 2017--001, confirms that it addresses the vulnerability that allowed admin access to a Mac computer without providing any password. The update breaks file sharing for some users, but Apple has released a fix for that as well.
Apple is urging customers to “install this update as soon as possible” right in the update description, and you should probably heed that advice if you’re running the company’s latest desktop software. Seriously. It’s even in bolded text. Apple is doing its part to make sure the crucial security patch spreads fast: beginning later today, the update will automatically be installed on all systems running High Sierra. That should make life easier for IT administrators.
But Apple is clearly disappointed with itself over this whole thing. It’s a humbling embarrassment for a company that so often highlights its focus on user security and privacy. "Security is a top priority for every Apple product, and regrettably we stumbled with this release of macOS,” Apple said in an unusually forward statement. “We greatly regret this error and we apologize to all Mac users, both for releasing with this vulnerability and for the concern it has caused. Our customers deserve better. We are auditing our development processes to help prevent this from happening again.”
To safeguard your Mac, just open the Mac App Store and you should see the update available to download. The installation process doesn’t require a restart — or at least it didn’t when I updated moments ago.
Unfortunately, the hurried update can break authenticating or connecting to file shares on some Macs. According to Apple, you can fix this by launching the Terminal app, entering “sudo /usr/libexec/configureLocalKDC” at the command line, and then entering your administrator password.
The exploit was shared in full detail on Twitter yesterday, prompting Apple to quickly publish step-by-step instructions for protecting against the “root” password loophole. This patch to fully resolve the issue comes less than 24 hours later. And it seems to have been a very quick effort; Apple says its security engineers went work when they became aware of the flaw “Tuesday afternoon,” which confirms that the company got no warning before it was publicly revealed.
Updated November 30th, 1:13 AM ET: Added instructions and link to repair file sharing.


Jocelyn Vera Zorn is not eager to talk about the loan she took out to buy the pants. “It’s kind of embarrassing,” she grimaces.
Really, she just wanted the pants: a special-edition pair of Imogene + Willie jeans in a vintage wash with a frayed raw hem that cost around $200.
“I don’t usually shop like that. I don’t usually buy new things, period” — but the pants were on sale, and she liked them, and “they were kind of an impulse buy,” facilitated by a new kind of point-of-sale personal loan from a company called Affirm.
Co-founded by former PayPal chief technology officer Max Levchin, Affirm promises a clear-cut, premium consumer credit experience. Since its start in 2012, the company has partnered with more than 1,000 retailers across a variety of categories to make more than 1 million loans with simple interest and predictable pay schedules. The installment loans, made at 10–30 percent annual percentage rates, or APR, and averaging $750 according to the company, are offered for everything from mattresses and plane tickets to motorized skateboards and coding classes to $500 boots and $200 limited-edition denim.
Backed by more than half a billion dollars in investments and debt, Affirm is hardly at the radical fringe of consumer finance. It’s been dubbed “the credit card killer.”
For merchants, Affirm provides exceptional benefits, increasing average order values across the board; perhaps not surprisingly, people will shop more, and more often, when they don’t immediately feel the costs. And for many customers, including Jocelyn, the predictable, convenient payments are worth the higher interest rates.
Affirm claims to be a more transparent and honest, if not cheaper, line of credit for the underserved. Using internal, proprietary data science and artificial intelligence, the company says it approves 126 percent more borrowers than traditional lenders, based on soft credit pulls and an opaque mosaic of consumer information.
Critics say Affirm promotes the worst consumer behavior: carrying high-cost debt for unnecessary goods. Affirm loans don’t just allow but entice you to buy something you can’t afford in one lump sum. But the loans aren’t Affirm’s real product — they’re a means to building and perfecting a new underwriting system to determine consumer creditworthiness, powered by machine learning and your personal data.
“Our goal is to be the app on your home screen for all of your financial needs,” says co-founder Max Levchin. “We are starting by reinventing credit because we believe it is fundamentally broken.”
It may still be outmatched by legacy financial companies and big tech firms getting into the payments business, but Affirm seems to mark a new age in the messy business of consumer finance — one where you too might choose to take out a high-cost pants loan.
Over the last century in America, each new small-scale consumer debt product has weathered waves of adoption, regulation, and easing, dictated by the larger economic and political patterns of the country. But arguably no consumer device has proven quite as disruptive as the credit card.
After the most recent recession, Congress gained the rare courage to regulate at least some financial institutions and products. The CARD Act, passed in 2009, was the most significant legislation in decades to rein in fee-happy, high-interest credit cards. The CARD Act also barred companies from soliciting new customers on college campuses, which helped decrease the number of young people in possession of plastic.
For the most part, though, banks and credit cards are regulated not at the federal level but by state usury laws, which limit the amount of interest a lender can charge based on where that lender is incorporated, not where customers live and spend. Which is to say, they are hardly regulated at all, as corporations simply locate in places with corporate-friendly laws. In 2010, South Dakota–based First Premier Bank made waves for charging between 59.9 and 79.9 percent APR on a MasterCard with a $300 limit. The card had nearly 300,000 active users in 2011.
Credit issuers rely on just a few large credit bureaus to find the best borrowers — generally people who will pay their debts, but not too quickly. The standard FICO model that grades consumer creditworthiness is often criticized for including factors that don’t necessarily predict a consumer’s behavior, like a late bill payment from five years ago, or hefty student loans. In 2015, 31 states won a settlement that limited how credit agencies could collect and report consumer medical debt. In 2017, more new rules stripped negative tax lien and civil judgment from consumer credit reports.
Since then, the average FICO score has risen, but many consumers have still been left behind. While more than two-thirds of Americans own at least one credit card, 20 percent are considered subprime, with a FICO score of 600 or below. Another 10 percent are on the bubble.
The ethics of lending to the subprime are not particularly clear. Thanks to FICO’s market dominance, a subprime consumer may have the ability to repay a loan, but be denied based on financial mistakes he or she made several years in the past. Without access to traditional methods of capital, the subprime are relegated to high-cost tools and services. This is the reluctant, conditional argument in favor of payday lenders, which make money available to people who would otherwise have nowhere else to go, even when they charge on average more than 300 percent APR for small personal loans. And with nearly 50 percent of Americans without $400 to cover an emergency expense, the implication is that these loans cover the necessities: rent, utilities, groceries.
We accept the inevitability and the usefulness of some debt, and of some people making some money from servicing it. Perhaps it was only a matter of time until American late capitalism was forced to grapple with the mechanisms and ethics of an installment loan product extended purely for the purchase of a pair of pants.
Affirm wasn’t originally built for pants loans, or at least that’s not the founding folklore: Peter Thiel was tired of driving a carless Max Levchin around after they’d sold PayPal, the story goes, but Levchin couldn’t qualify for financing on his own. Despite being a prominent member of the PayPal mafia, he’d made common 20-something credit mistakes, and had the bad FICO score to prove it.
Nathan Gettings, one of Thiel’s co-founders at the secretive data analysis and services company Palantir, went on to co-found Affirm with Levchin and former CTO Jeffrey Kaditz. Founders Fund, which Thiel co-organized, led Affirm’s $100 million Series D funding round in April 2016, which valued the company at $700 million.
“The core thesis behind Affirm is that there’s a large segment of Americans who don’t have access to fair and transparent credit, and there’s a large part of the population that’s mispriced because of the outdated FICO score and the existing credit system,” says Affirm’s chief of staff and head of international expansion Ryan Metcalf.
Affirm’s original flagship consumer product is a new user experience for an old idea: the short-term installment loan, made at the point of sale in partnership with retailers. Where other installment services such as Splitit and Partial.ly work with existing lines of credit and point-of-sale services to create predictable installments for shoppers, Affirm services its own loans but it does not originate them. Affirm may look and act much like a lender, but it’s really an asset-backed securitizer; its loans are made by partner Cross River Bank in New Jersey, then Affirm buys the loans back and holds the risk itself. Cross River originates loans for more than a dozen other online lending platforms. In November 2016, it raised $28 million to invest in more support for its financial technology, or fintech, partners and grow its own stable of payment products.
While Affirm offers a variable APR between 10 and 30 percent, the upper limit allowed in New Jersey, Levchin and Metcalf are loudly opposed to what they consider Affirm’s predatory competition.
“You need not look any further than the fact that credit card companies made more profit in fees last year than in interest income,” says Levchin.
“We did not want to be associated with payday lenders or subprime lenders. We think high-fee credit cards are egregious,” Metcalf tells me. “We realized early on we weren’t going to become the most profitable bank in the world — if and when we become a bank.”
Affirm’s interest is simple, not compounding, and the added fees are nonexistent. Still, the company’s brand of “ethical lending” and “honest finance” features a median APR of 19 percent, which hovers between the national credit card average and the national credit-card-for-bad-credit average. For someone with other options, using Affirm is a choice that carries a higher price tag along with greater convenience and clarity. “Our challenge is we’re not a bank,” says Metcalf. “We don’t have the lower cost of capital, so we can’t compete on price. We have to compete on user experience.”
It’s a cost that Affirm does not hide, and one some consumers seem happy to pay. Affirm customers have an average of 2.2 loans with the company, while some shoppers have upward of 50 at a time.
“It almost feels like an innovation, but it’s not, or it shouldn’t be,” says Tracy DiNunzio, founder and CEO of longtime Affirm partner Tradesy. “The big Affirm innovation is that you can understand your repayment terms.”
The far bigger, high-stakes Affirm innovation is its proprietary consumer risk-assessment scoring, or underwriting system. Without the fees that make upward of half of some credit card companies’ revenue streams, Affirm has to make up ground with volume. The company proudly lends to consumers who the larger market and traditional credit reporting standards would define as subprime, but its default rate is “well below the industry average,” says Metcalf. Affirm is heavily incentivized to find those good customers, bad FICO score or not. And it does so by compiling a broader, more complex, and ever-shifting set of details about every loan applicant.
“The secret sauce for the company is the underwriting,” says Jeremy Liew, who led Lightspeed Venture’s Series A investment in Affirm in 2014. “The point-of-sale lending at e-commerce is simply their first application of their underwriting model.”
In October, Affirm took its first big step away from a merchant-specific model with a new app that allows consumers to take out loans good for purchases at any retailer — a new opportunity for swift and wide-scale growth, and millions more loans across every retail category.
“You’re buying a thing, and you’re paying a fee to spread it out. Our responsibility is to make sure you have the ability and intent to pay it back in full,” says Metcalf. “At the end of the day, if you do that, it doesn’t matter what you’re buying.”
Fashion is Affirm’s third biggest category, behind homewares and travel, and clearly the company’s most vexing. The optics simply are not super-great.
“Apparel is really the only criticism we get. Like, oh my God, you’re financing a pair of shoes,” says Metcalf. “We’ve had this debate internally. We’ve had this issue with sneakers — $300, $500 sneakers — people have reactions to borrowing money for that kind of thing.”
Unlike a house, an average pair of pants loses most of its value once it’s purchased, and even more once it’s used. Unlike a car, its central utility is largely up for debate; it cannot transport you to work or to school, though it may well be of good use when you arrive. And unlike either of those things, it is not presumed to be a large investment purchase to begin with.
Betabrand chief marketing officer Aaron Magness tells me he wasn’t sure about offering Affirm on his company’s relatively affordable items. “The pants are $78, and the payments are $9 a month. To me, that feels kind of weird,” he says. “Should you really be placing an order for a $100 pair of pants if you need to break it into a payment plan?”
For Magness and Betabrand, that worry turned out to be unfounded. Affirm shoppers on Betabrand were of no lesser means or FICO score than non-Affirm shoppers; they were just choosing to spend this way, ordering several pieces at once.
Affirm’s fashion retail partners tell the same story over and over again: “surprising,” “extraordinary,” “overperformed from Day 1,” “I couldn’t believe it.”
Rebecca Minkoff began accepting Affirm in April. “We’ll do seven figures in volume with Affirm this year,” says Uri Minkoff, creative director for the brand. “That’s just blown us away.”
Affirm is not just meeting a demand, but creating one, encouraging shoppers to buy and spend more. Affirm claims an average 75 percent boost in order values across all its merchant partners. Affirm is clearly not just facilitating purchases that would have otherwise happened through other means of credit. Four retailers I spoke with reported significantly higher sales, and more frequent purchases, with Affirm customers.
“It’s kind of the point of credit,” says Metcalf. “It gives you access to things you couldn’t afford on a cash basis. It doesn’t mean you can’t really afford it.”
Affirm has also shifted consumer behavior in other ways: The short-term retail loans have helped to create a new kind of fashion economy. “We call it cyclical commerce. It’s a new rental marketplace,” says Metcalf.
Just as “the sharing economy” has proliferated in other sectors over the last 10 years, the idea of renting a dress has become as normal as hailing an Uber to go on a grocery run, or subscribing to software you once would’ve purchased to own. You can choose from hundreds of styles on Rent the Runway, along with Style Lend, Amarium, Le Tote, Gwynnie Bee, the Ms. Collection, Parcel 22, and more — even good old Ann Taylor has launched a new rental service.
Just as rental services have grown, so has the market for used goods. Where your local Crossroads may be willfully capricious, dictated by the tastes of its particular staff, the wisdom of the crowded online resale market tends toward truer values and more efficient, personalized item sorting. Resale sites such as ThredUp and Swap.com deal largely in less expensive clothing and accessories, but Affirm partner merchants Tradesy and the RealReal specialize in the higher end. While a pair of $200 pants may not hold much of their value over one Affirm pay period, a designer bag will.
“Customers are leveraging credit with Affirm in order to access higher-quality fashion,” says Levchin.
It’s a dynamic that Tradesy’s Tracy DiNunzio saw from the start: customers financing a purchase of, say, a $2,000 Chanel bag, using it for a few months, then selling it back, paying down their loan, and buying something new — all without ever extending themselves for the full price of the item. She sees it in part as a reaction to fast fashion.
“The combination of the Affirm credit and resale is just really powerful. It lets women shop for a constantly updating wardrobe without laying out very much cash at all,” says DiNunzio. “You still get the frequency, you have new things all the time, but you’re putting products back into the market when you’re done with them.”
Uri Minkoff has seen this new dynamic in just the few months since partnering with Affirm. “For us, it spurs a customer who’s super–brand loyal. It lets her dollars go longer,” says Minkoff. “She’s buying and reselling our product three to four times a year. Now with Instagram, you don’t want to have the same handbag in more than a couple pictures.”
We’re no longer paying for the ownership of things, but the temporary experience of ownership for short, discrete periods of time, a kind of access that comes at a fraction of the cost, even accounting for an interest up-charge.
According to our depressed wages, it’s not that we would necessarily prefer to temporarily access things rather than own them — it’s just that we’re poor now.
Affirm is hardly alone in its bid for a piece of the consumer debt market; credit dysfunction has inspired an entire fledgling industry of potential solutions. But with Levchin’s PayPal pedigree and more than half a billion in funding, Affirm appears uniquely positioned to succeed in a crowded fintech space.
“Max was definitely a big factor in us deciding to invest in Affirm. But we also have long held the belief that underwriting was the perfect use case for machine learning,” says Lightspeed’s Liew. “We have invested in a number of other fintech companies based on this idea of machine learning–based underwriting and online distribution.”
While tens of millions of underserved consumers may be all but ignored by traditional financial services, fintech companies have realized the opportunity in so many Americans who are living, working, buying, and borrowing outside of traditional financial institutions: This as-of-yet overlooked customer base is a captive market opportunity. The fact that these consumers are currently relegated to predatory, subprime services only makes the potential disruption more palatable.
Lightspeed is also an investor in ZestFinance, which similarly uses machine learning to lend to the unbanked “who typically had to resort to payday lending,” says Liew. Dozens more fintech startups are jostling to control this emerging loan market, to create the best underwriting model based on available consumer data, and to automate as much of the loan servicing as possible — while turning a profit, and keeping consumers satisfied.
Affirm’s customer ratings are, by and large, very positive. It has a Net Promoter score of 82, compared with a financial services industry average under 50. Its Better Business Bureau customer reviews are 84 percent positive, with an A+ rating. In 2015, Max Levchin joined the advisory board of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the government watchdog that collects and acts upon complaints against financial services and institutions. The CFPB has no complaints against Affirm in its public database.
However, in April, Affirm faced what appears to be its first consumer lawsuit under the Fair Debt Collection Act. The main plaintiff in a potential class action alleges he’d never heard of Affirm before receiving an opaque debt collections letter saying he owed the company $141.18. He’s suing Affirm along with debt collection agency Afni.
Lauren Leimbach, executive director of the nonprofit Community Financial Resources, questions the transparency on which Affirm so intently prides itself: Is the company providing a tool for the poor and underserved who don’t even have $400 to cover an emergency, or an aspirational tool for people who want to buy $400 shoes on a whim?
“I just find it disingenuous that they try to code it like they’re trying to serve the underserved. They should just be honest about what they’re doing,” says Leimbach, a former vice president at Providian Financial. “Millennials are like the temporary poor, because they’re young. That’s a different person than people who are struggling because they’ve fallen out of the middle class or they can’t get out of the working class.”
“I think that using machine learning for short-term credit is a great application. It is possible to learn and iterate for complicated credit-scoring models that really take advantage of all of the available data,” says Stanford University economist Susan Athey. “Having a better credit model can be a key strategic advantage, and since Affirm is the first firm offering exactly this type of loan, they can get out ahead of the competition with better models.”
But the competition is fierce, and the market is moving far faster than regulators could possibly hope to. “There are no laws to protect you,” laments Leimbach. “Consumers need to be advocating for more privacy rules around all this data, but in the meantime, companies looking to make decisions about lending money are going to try all these data elements to find what’s predictive. It’s rational.”
Most of the negative consumer reviews Affirm receives through Net Promoter and the BBB aren’t reports of being mistreated by a predatory loan servicer, but of being declined for a loan. A significant portion come from former Affirm customers reporting that, after receiving and paying down one loan, they were denied for another.
“That just seems odd. Research shows that type of behavior is very predictive of future loan paying capability,” says Leimbach. “As a former credit person, that seems to me that there’s something wrong with their model.”
Affirm might agree; the model, after all, is constantly in flux by design. “When you change the credit model, it changes the selection of consumers to take your loans,” says Athey, “and every time you change, you then need to wait to learn whether the model really worked.”
Affirm’s long game is not in little interest margins on pants loans, however savvy those loans may be. A true return on the $520 million that firms have invested or loaned to Affirm as of October 2017 would be in the success of an underwriting algorithm that would surface more potential customers for credit — a risk-assessment tool that would compete with a highly centralized and criticized legacy credit bureau market that hasn’t exactly proven to be very tech-savvy itself.
“Banks approach us for this all the time, asking whether they can purchase everything that we’ve built,” says Metcalf. “The short answer is no. It’s proprietary to us; it’s building our company.”
The long answer, though, is probably, eventually, yes. “I think there are great opportunities for us to leverage our own systems, perhaps in partnership with other companies, to improve our customers’ lives,” says Levchin.
Affirm is hardly alone in building and testing these tools, and FICO itself is expanding its machine learning operations in order to compete. Drawing upon a vast sea of information presents opportunities for customers who’ve been denied other routes to credit. But predictive algorithms are also capable of becoming automated machines of discrimination despite well-meaning human inputs, purely based on the vast trove of available data and correlations between traits and behaviors. And proprietary, constantly-changing underwriting algorithms that might deem your creditworthiness based on your social media habits are not easily regulated by existing federal laws.
Other would-be Affirm borrowers said they were rejected, despite their good credit scores, because they had past misdemeanor convictions. “In February 2015 we started declining for fraud reasons, for what we considered faults of character,” says Affirm’s Metcalf. “In January of this year, we stopped. We don’t decline based on criminal history anymore. We found there wasn’t a significant correlation in repayments.” Affirm doesn't release data on how many consumers it rejects, but says its notice letters meet Fair Credit Reporting Act requirements.
This is a perfectly legal example of a lender choosing not to lend to a potentially risky customer, in service of providing an ostensibly better product. But it also highlights an opportunity for a kind of discrimination once removed. If Affirm would reject all consumers with criminal convictions, it’d be rejecting far more people of color than whites — without actually discriminating against would-be borrowers based on their race.
Even the most well-trained algorithms have no inherent ethic, and have proven time and again to reflect and arguably amplify existing biases, if not provide for decisions that violate the law outright. “Even in situations where data miners are extremely careful, they can still effect discriminatory results with models that, quite unintentionally, pick out proxy variables for protected classes,” write Solon Barocas and Andrew D. Selbst in the California Law Review. Offering different rates or products to consumers in different zip codes is just one way firms can discriminate based on race without violating the letter of the law.
Levchin says Affirm is committed to maintaining full compliance with lending laws, and the company takes steps to protect its machines from learning to discriminate. “Our models use carefully designed, nonparametric statistical models. We have a clear understanding of the impact a variable has on the underwriting model’s prediction,” says Levchin. “We ensure that the candidate’s set of variables to be used for model training do not pose any concern with regards to potential discrimination.”
But the rise of big, opaque, life-changing data analysis has concerned lawyers, technologists, and consumer advocates from the National Consumer Law Center to Obama’s White House for years.
“Credit-scoring tools that integrate thousands of data points, most of which are collected without consumer knowledge, create serious problems of transparency,” write Mikella Hurley and Julius Adebayo in the Yale Journal of Law and Technology. “These tools may furthermore obscure discriminatory and subjective lending policies behind a single ‘objective’ score.”
Ultimately the algorithms that could prove to be a force in favor of opening up credit opportunities to the underserved — for pants, or otherwise — have just as much capacity to become engines driving further inequity.
Almost a year since buying them and a few months since paying them off, Jocelyn Vera Zorn is still happy with her pants. “Every month when I got the payment alert I was like, ‘Yep, still wear the jeans all the time,’” she says, grinning. “Love ’em.”
For Zorn, an ideal Affirm world would be a kind of full-stack shopping credit experience.
“I got so excited about the prospect of the loans, because it’s a little different from a credit card. It seems like a good way of budgeting, honing in on your clothing allowance,” she tells me. “Like, I could just have $150 worth of loan payments out each month. Clothing is something that I spend a lot of money on, so maybe if it was all on Affirm, I could regulate it.”
It’s not far from Affirm’s own plan for the company. In future updates, the Affirm app won’t just be a means to new loan products, but a holistic personal financial management tool designed to compete with existing services such as Mint. “Our whole proposition is: Trust us to help you manage your finances in an intuitive and automatic way,” says Metcalf. “It’ll have machine learning in the back end, connected to your bank accounts, to help you live within your means.” The app could then suggest whether you should pay in cash, or take out an Affirm loan with a 19 percent APR.
“Because we have designed our systems to understand our customers at an individual level, we are able to understand the personal needs of our customers in real time. As a result, we will have opportunities to help them in new, smart, and dynamic ways,” says Levchin. “We plan to have an active role in the new economy and reinventing credit is really just the beginning.”
Metcalf assures that “those pieces of our company won’t be profit centers.” But they will continue to feed Affirm’s churning AI core with fresh private consumer detail, from your mortgage to your car to your pants payments.
Most of us are not super-savvy, constant shoppers with a revolving closet of designer items. Most clothing is not very expensive, and it depreciates almost immediately. Your second monthly Affirm payment could be more than your item is now worth. Sunk cost isn’t something most of us consider when we buy a pair of pants, or a sweater, a pair of shoes, a bra. It’s an act of ruthless economic disassociating that can suck the joy out of any small consumer indulgence. If you’ve ever experienced the profound debasement of attempting to resell your used clothing at a secondhand retailer, you’ve likely already had this brutal realization: It is nearly worthless.
And yet, we need pants. Sometimes we need nice ones for work, or a formal occasion — well-draped trousers in a classic, hip-skimming cut, an investment piece that we hope to wear for seasons to come, but certainly can’t afford in one lump sum.
And sometimes — not often, ideally, but sometimes — we need special-edition vintage-wash jeans with a raw hem because, well, we just do.
Susie Cagle is a journalist and illustrator based in Oakland, California.
Editor: Julia RubinCopy editor: Heather Schwedel


You’ll never convince me that using an internet browser on a television set is anything but awkward and bad, but if for whatever reason you’ve been waiting to browse the web on Amazon’s Fire TV devices, the company has answered that call. The Amazon Silk browser, which already comes on Fire tablets, is now available for Amazon Fire TV set-top boxes, sticks, and Fire TV Edition HDTVs. You can download it from the app store on supported devices.
For now, as noted by AFTVnews, support is limited to first- and second-gen Fire TV boxes and the second-gen Stick — plus the Westinghouse/Element 4K TV that runs Amazon’s Fire TV software as its operating system. The most recent Fire TV released this fall can’t yet run the Silk browser; Amazon says an update due in December will fix that.
Follow that AFTVnews link for a walkthrough of Silk’s capabilities if you want an idea of what it can and can’t do. The in-browser video experience is apparently pretty good, so jumping into Silk could be another way of streaming content that’s not readily available elsewhere in Amazon’s ecosystem of apps and services. Even so, with my Xbox One, I think I can count the number of times I’ve opened Microsoft Edge — intentionally, anyway — on a single hand.


Yetis are just local bears, according to DNA tests on hair and teeth specimens that allegedly belonged to the legendary abominable snowman.
In the continuing quest to figure out whether the yeti exists, scientists analyzed nine “yeti” samples that came from sources like mummified animals and a stuffed yeti in museums. (The samples belong to a company making a film about yetis.) Researchers compared the DNA of these purported yeti samples to 15 samples of genetic material from brown bears. Eight of the “yeti” turned out to be just local bears, according to a study published in the journal Proceedings of Royal Society B. The ninth sample, the one that belonged to the stuffed yeti, was actually a stuffed bear with the teeth of a dog.
So, for example, the “yetis” from Tibet were Tibetan bears, and the ones from Himalaya were just Himalayan bears, said co-author Charlotte Lindqvist, a University at Buffalo geneticist, according to The Guardian. She added that the results would be “perhaps slightly disappointing to the film company.” I bet.
This isn’t the first time that DNA tests have disproven yeti claims. A few years ago, Oxford University geneticist Bryan Sykes analyzed “yeti” samples from around the world, only to find that they mostly belonged to raccoons, cows, sheep, and even a human. At least bears are a little closer to the yeti than raccoons.





Circuit Breaker Live was on Twitter this week not once, but twice! What a treat!
Yesterday, Jake Kastrenakes was on to show us the future of holograms with the HoloPlayer One; Sean O'Kane brought the Pixel Buds on-air with a live translation demo; and Chaim Gartenberg brought a bevy of strange phones for us to gawk at.
We’ve uploaded the full episode online for you above, and you can always watch past episodes in our Storystream below.


Apple and Qualcomm’s legal battle continues today with a new claim of patent infringement focused on some of Qualcomm’s top processors.
Apple claims that Qualcomm is infringing eight battery life patents with its processors. In particular, it singles out the Snapdragon 800 and the Snapdragon 820. Those aren’t Qualcomm’s most recent processors, but they’re part of Qualcomm’s flagship line and powered high-end phones as recently as a year ago.
The patents cover technologies that help a processor draw as little power as necessary and allow a processor to quickly increase and decrease its power usage. The new claims were first reported by Reuters.
The new claims are a late counterstrike to patent infringement claims that Qualcomm made over the summer. Qualcomm alleges that Apple is in violation of six of its own patents, also having to do with battery life, and is trying to get iPhones banned as a result.
Apple is filing these new patent infringement claims in an attempt to get Qualcomm’s patent claims dismissed. Apple says it began filing for battery life patents long before Qualcomm went after its own battery life patents, and it says that Qualcomm’s infringement claims appear “to be a blatant effort to take credit for the innovation of others.” The company’s filing goes on to claim that Qualcomm selectively gained patents that covered technologies that might be inside Apple products “much like a common patent troll.”
Qualcomm didn’t respond to a request for comment. Apple said it didn’t have anything to add beyond what’s in the filing.
This fight over battery life patents is really just a small skirmish in the larger legal fight being waged by the two companies. The dispute kicked off at the beginning of the year, when Apple began filing lawsuits around the globe accusing Qualcomm of abusing its market position to charge unreasonable prices for its LTE modems.
Qualcomm has denied these charges and countersued Apple for withholding payments, violating patents, and sharing proprietary code.
But for the time being, things aren’t looking great for Qualcomm. Apple’s claims are echoed by lawsuits that regulators from a number of countries have chased Qualcomm with in recent years — to some success. The US is going after Qualcomm along those lines, too. On top of that, Samsung and Intel are trying to help the Federal Trade Commission’s case, so Qualcomm has a lot to fight back against.
Update November 29th, 11:33AM ET: This story has been updated with more information from Apple’s legal filing.


The Mr. Robot Digital After Show is returning after a brief holiday hiatus! Tune in at 11PM ET to watch Nilay Patel, Russell Brandom, and me, Megan Farokhmanesh, talk everything hackers and Rami Malek. Tonight, we’ll have two special guests: composer Mac Quayle and The Verge’s culture editor Laura Hudson.
You can watch here on The Verge, or on the Mr. Robot Facebook page. Got questions? Drop ’em over in our Mr. Robot Reddit thread, or join the conversation in real time using the #RobotAfterShow hashtag on Twitter. We didn’t have an episode last week, but if you missed the one before that, with Martin Wallström, be sure to get caught up on YouTube.
One more thing: USA Network is owned by NBCUniversal, which owns a minority stake in Vox Media, The Verge’s parent company. Like everything else that comes from The Verge’s editorial staff, the Mr. Robot Digital After Show is an independent editorial product, guided only by our interests and taste. Also, no spoilers.


If you’re a millennial, you probably grew up with the robotic furry critter toy known as Furby. It’s gone through a lot of iterations, and now somebody’s tinkered with one to make it speak using Amazon’s Alexa. It is quite frightening and disconcerting to hear Alexa’s adult lady voice come out of Furby, which is known for speaking disjointed English and gibberish.
Zack, from Howchoo details how to hack your own Furby using Amazon’s open-source Alexa Voice Service running on a Raspberry Pi and custom Python scripts. Zack says the entire project cost him $50, which includes all the materials, plus an old Furby off eBay. The process is a bit fiddly, involving soldering, disassembling the toy, and some programming. The result is a kind of super-Furby that can turn on your dining room lights and tell you the weather forecast, which is really neat.
Here’s what Furby looks like without its fur but with the Raspberry Pi fully installed:
And I’ll just end on this front view:


Self-driving cars from Alphabet’s Waymo are currently cruising the streets of suburban Arizona, navigating around with no human at the ready to take the wheel should something go wrong. It’s some of the most advanced testing we’ve seen so far,  reaching what’s know as Level 4 autonomy. These cars can operate without any human input, but only under certain conditions and on certain roads.
Velodyne, one of the leading manufacturers of laser sensor for self driving cars, made an announcement this morning that it hopes will push things to the next level. The company released details of its latest product, the VLS-128. It’s the most powerful LIDAR the company has ever created, with twice the range and three times the resolution of its predecessor. “This product was designed and built for the level 5, fully autonomous, mobility as a service market,” says Anand Gopalan, the company’s CTO, meaning it can perform as well or better than a human under any circumstances.
The most important sensor in most self-driving cars these days is LIDAR, a laser scanner that can provide a 360-degree view of what’s happening around the vehicle. To illustrate the capabilities of the 128, Gopalan gives an example of a particularly challenging situation. “There is a small black object far out in front of you. Is it a piece of paper, a butterfly, or some tire debris? The autonomous vehicle needs to be able to see this object and make a decision about whether it should change lanes or break, and then take action. Traveling at 70 miles per hour, you have precious little time to do this.”
Gopalan says that the 128 can handle this sort of edge case. It’s 300 meter range and incredible detail are one part of the equation. But it also works for tricky scenarios like tire debris because it allows an autonomous driving system to take fewer steps between seeing the world and deciding what to do. “With lower-resolution LIDAR you would need to somehow fuse the data with cameras and do some processing to create something that can be understood by the computer,” he tells The Verge. “You now have such a high-resolution image, you can take the data and put it directly into an image classification algorithm.  It reduces complexity and time.”
Just last month Nvidia claimed its computer vision systems are ready for Level 5 autonomy. Intel has made similar noises. And Waymo, in demonstrating its latest system to our reporter, touted its ability to see and identify debris on the road.
Of course, Velodyne doesn’t compete directly with either of these companies. Its LIDAR system is a complement to the chips sold by companies like Nvidia. And while some automakers are working on building their own LIDAR in house, most are turning to suppliers like Velodyne as they look to build driverless car services that would compete with the likes of Waymo and Uber.
Velodyne says that it managed to add more range and resolution to its latest unit, while simultaneously reducing the size, weight, and power consumption. For now, however, it’s staying mum on the price. In fact, says founder and CEO David Hall, price isn’t really the point. “We took a cost is no issue approach with this thing,” says Hall. “The mobility-as-a-service customer would just as soon have a higher end LIDAR. The costs aren’t that high, when compared to the value of not having a driver.”


Snap today introduced a redesign of its flagship app intended to promote more intimate sharing among friend groups while pushing professionally produced content into a separate feed. The redesigned Snapchat includes a new dynamic friends page that incorporates both chat messages and ephemeral stories, and pushes items from your close friends to the top of the feed for the first time. It will begin appearing later this week for a small test group, and is expected to roll out more broadly in coming weeks.
The move comes at a time when Snap is under mounting pressure to grow its stagnant user base. The core idea in the new Snapchat is to put your friends on one side of the app, and brands on the other. In the center is Snap camera, which will remain the app’s home screen. (It produces 3.5 billion snaps a day, the company says.) The left side of the app is now for sharing and discussing, while the right side is for searching and consuming.
The idea is not completely new. The left side of the app has always been for chats with friends, and the right side has always been for brands. But before now, stories — the ephemeral, public photo and video posts that disappear after 24 hours — have been housed in their own tab to the right of the camera screen. The stories tab blended content from friends and brands, to sometimes confusing effect.
“Until now, social media has always mixed photos and videos from your friends with content from publishers and creators,” the company said in a blog post. “While blurring the lines between professional content creators and your friends has been an interesting internet experiment, it has also produced some strange side-effects (like fake news) and made us feel like we have to perform for our friends rather than just express ourselves.”
So how does Snap know who’s a friend, and who’s a brand? Either can create a Snapchat account, after all. Snap says it works like this: if an account follows you back, it’s considered a friend, and shows up on the left side of the app. If it doesn’t follow you back, it shows up on the Discover page.
Snap executives hope the reorganization will lead to more conversations between close groups of friends. In addition to separating people and brands, it’s creating a true algorithmic feed on the friends page for the first time. The company currently has a “best friends” algorithm that puts the people you engage with most at the top of your feed; the redesigned feed expands that to rank all of your friends by closeness. The more you chat with them and watch their stories, the higher in your feed they will rise.
There’s no more button for watching all the stories in your feed; instead, after you watch one, you’ll see an interstitial screen previewing the next story from one of your friends. You can either tap the screen to watch it or swipe it away to return to your chats. It marks a return, sort of, to auto-advancing stories, which Snap killed last October.
The move could have negative consequences for publishers, who are accustomed to their stories appearing in a central feed alongside stories from users’ friends, likely generating more views as a result. Publishers could begin following back their user bases en masse, but unless they start interacting with millions of accounts, they might show up lower in the feed than they would on the Discover page. Snap said it would release unspecified new tools to help creators profit from their work on the platform.
You can personalize your Discover page by subscribing and unsubscribing from what you see there. (There’s also a somewhat mysterious “see less like this” button that will show you less of ... whatever this is.)
On one hand, much of what you see in the new Snapchat represents a simple moving of furniture. But for Snap, the stakes are high. The company’s future depends on it becoming more accessible to a wider base of users, while retaining the core audience that uses it today. It’s a tricky puzzle — one that Twitter has been trying to pull off for years, with largely disappointing results.
Still, even Snapchat employees had begun to feel like the app’s design was confused. In their eyes, the new version represents the app’s core ideas at their most distilled. The question now is how large an audience those ideas will ultimately reach.


You’ve heard the myth that singing to your plants helps them grow better. Unless your singing sounds like a caterpillar chewing, your plant probably isn’t reacting. But serenading your plant could help its growth anyway, since you’re probably paying pretty good attention to your plant’s soil moisture and leaf health while you sing to it.
This mini sprinkler system waters your plant when you sing. So now you can concentrate on your plant’s health and happiness while the watering happens automatically. Plus, you get to perfect your cover of pajama-clad cover of “That’s What I Like.”
Ready to build your own sound-sensitive sprinkler system? Directions below.
Take apart your tuner and check it out. On the Korg CA40, there is a solder pad near the center LED that we can take advantage of. This solder pad is part of the trace that brings current to the LED. By hooking it up to the Photon, we should be able to detect and record when the tuner is trying to turn on that light — in other words, when we are singing in tune.
Cut 3 M-M jumper wires in half and strip the exposed ends. Solder the stripped end of one wire to the exposed solder pad. Wrap the exposed end of another wire around the negative terminal of the battery case and solder it, and do the same with another wire on the positive terminal.
Now it’s time to check out your aquarium pump. It’s possible that the ends of the wires here are already the right size to fit into your breadboard, but if you want a more snug or secure connection, this is a good time to extend each wire by soldering on a cut jumper wire. Wrap the exposed soldered spot with electrical tape or slide on some heat shrink to keep these spots from touching each other. Put some plastic tubing on the outflow valve of your aquarium pump and test it to make sure it works.
Set up your Photon and flash this code to your device...
...And wire it all together! Wiring image below.
Drop the aquarium pump into some water (making sure that no exposed wires go in the water) and clip one end of the aquarium tubing to a sturdy part of your plant or to your plant’s pot.
Sing to your plant!








When a big, years-in-the-making game finally releases, it’s common for staff to take an extended vacation. The grind of finishing up an ambitious project often involves plenty of late nights at the office, missing out on time with family, and little in the way of time off. For Hajime Tabata, who took over as director of the troubled Final Fantasy XV in 2013, the year leading up to launch was filled with many sleepless nights. “There is a sense that this is shortening my lifespan,” he told Polygon in 2015. “But it's all worth it."
The game had all the makings of a disaster. Over the course of its decade-long development, which began in 2006, FFXV changed names, platforms, and eventually directors. It went from a spinoff of the PS3 title Final Fantasy XIII to the next major standalone entry in the iconic series. Despite all of the turmoil, it proved to be a success both critically and commercially, reaching 6 million units sold faster than any game in the series before it. One year after launch, the game is still growing with multiple spinoffs, expansions, and updates, many of which are still to come.
The nights may not be as sleepless as they once were, but for Tabata, FFXV still consumes much of his time. “I took my family on a trip and was able to make up for last year,” he says. “However, we are still mastering up every few months, so we’re still busy and are constantly pressed for time.”
In some ways, Final Fantasy XV is a lot like previous entries in the long-running role-playing series. As one member of a quartet of best friends, you set out on a world-spanning road trip, equal parts epic fantasy adventure and buddy comedy. Swords and sorcery combine with a near-future setting, where characters can take selfies while riding giant chickens called chocobos into battle. But Final Fantasy XV is notable for the ways that it’s different from the rest of the series. That’s because Final Fantasy XV isn’t just a game: it’s become the center of a surprisingly vast, constantly changing universe.
That process started even before the game launched. Prior to Final Fantasy XV, Square Enix debuted an anime series that served as an introduction to the main cast of characters, and a feature-length CG movie that told a story concurrent with the events of the game. Meanwhile, the game’s creators have adopted a service model, with a steady stream of updates and expansions designed to keep players coming back. It’s an increasingly popular technique in the multiplayer space, where games like Overwatch and Destiny need to keep people engaged in order to maintain a steady base of players. But it’s a relatively novel approach for a typically single-player, narrative-focused experience like Final Fantasy.
FFXV’s updates have altered virtually every facet of the experience. There are the typical bug fixes and performance improvements, of course, but the team also created an entirely new version of the controversial chapter 13, a section of the game that many players felt dragged on while forcing them to give up their hard-earned powers and weapons. There have also been two standalone story expansions, as well as a massively multiplayer add-on called “Comrades,” that fills in a large gap in the story’s timeline. This month also saw the debut of a virtual reality fishing spinoff, Monster of the Deep, and there are upcoming versions of the game in the works for both PC and mobile.
For Tabata and his team, it’s been a new experience, and tackling so many different projects simultaneously proved to be a challenge. “We set up a plan to develop multiple [pieces of] content in parallel with each other, based on our experience developing the main game,” he explains. “However, it did prove to be difficult to develop efficiently, while also making sure we achieve the quality we want when dealing with the multiple projects.”
During a lavish press conference last March, series creator Hironobu Sakaguchi took to the stage to explain that he felt reassured about the future of Final Fantasy after learning about Tabata’s plans for the 15th installment. “The Final Fantasy I remember was constantly seeking new challenges, and never sitting comfortably in any given place,” he said at the time. That was before the game came out, of course. After he had a chance to see the final version, Sakaguchi had plenty of feedback for Tabata and his team. “I received both good comments from Sakaguchi-san, as well as feedback on items that he would like for us to look into in future projects. He talked a lot from the perspective of the future of Final Fantasy,” says Tabata, before adding with a laugh “I cannot disclose what we talked about, though.”
One particular challenge, he notes, is maintaining a sense of consistency while tuning each experience for its respective platform. The PC version features high-end visuals, for instance, while the mobile FFXV streamlines the experience with a more pronounced focus on story. “It goes without saying that we will offer the game on as many platforms as possible,” Tabata says. “And when we do that, we will make sure to offer a Final Fantasy XV that has characteristics that fits that platform.”
However, despite the game’s success, Tabata isn’t sure whether or not this kind of service model is something future games in the series will adapt. If there’s one constant in Final Fantasy, it’s change. Each new entry offers up a new world and characters, and drastic shifts are common, whether it’s the real-time gameplay of FFXII or the massively multiplayer structure of FFXIV. For Tabata, the service model offers just one of many potential directions for the series. “I feel that the future of the series will have more freedom and flexibility,” he says. “One thing I can say is that to release a game as a global AAA title, then continuing to push out content under a service model like Final Fantasy XV did, is extremely difficult to do.”
As for FFXV, there’s still plenty of work to be done. The third and final story expansion, “Episode Ignis,” is launching next month, while the mobile version is due out this year and the PC port is planned for early 2018. (That’s on top of the updates coming to the new multiplayer portion of the game.) There’s no definitive end in sight, and Tabata says he does “hope to try to continue offering services for as long as possible.”
When it comes to what’s next for the series, though, there’s a good chance he won’t be involved — at least for a while. The director has already said that his next project will be something completely new. There’s no indication on what that something may be, but it sounds ambitious. “I like to challenge myself to new things,” he explains. “I want to challenge the team and friends that experienced Final Fantasy XV together in creating a world that we have never seen, and creating a game that we have never seen.”


This week, the value of a single bitcoin officially cleared $10,000, a new high point that’s over an order of magnitude greater than its price at the start of this year. Bitcoin has defied market expectations before, but in 2017, it didn’t just become more valuable. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have become an acknowledged part of the financial system — albeit a nebulous one.
Bitcoin traded at around $960 at the beginning of the year, and it’s risen steadily since then, with a steep jump in the past two months. There are multiple, complementary explanations for this, but this latest boom was sparked partly by the CME Group, a futures marketplace that announced its intent to start listing bitcoin by the end of the year. It’s a stamp of approval that could help cement bitcoins’ position at other major financial institutions, many of which are already handling bitcoin-related trading in some capacity. Even JPMorgan Chase, whose CEO Jamie Dimon has said he would fire anyone who traded bitcoin, is reportedly considering a plan to let its clients access CME’s futures.
Not everyone believes that bitcoin is ready to enter the futures market. Themis Trading principal Joe Saluzzi warned that the currency is dangerously unregulated: “It reminds me of the financial crisis all over again,” he told CNBC. And bitcoin is so volatile that spending it doesn’t make sense. Nobody knows how valuable a single bitcoin might BECOME — while Thomas Glucksmann of currency exchange Gatecoin said $10,000 was still “cheap in my opinion,” bitcoin has also suffered extended catastrophic crashes, including a long slump after passing $1,000 in 2013. As an example of just how surreal bitcoin fluctuations can be, Gizmodo writer Kashmir Hill tweeted about buying a sushi dinner in 2013 for the equivalent of $99,000 today.
There are still places where bitcoin payments make sense, although they’re sometimes unsavory: far-right groups have used them after being dropped by payment processors, for instance. And the underlying blockchain technology has myriad uses that aren’t cryptocurrency-focused — from quickly processing international money transfers to tracking legal marijuana.
But people have also found uses for cryptocurrency that go beyond replacing cash. The best-known example of 2017 might be initial coin offerings or ICOs, in which companies sell digital tokens based on cryptocurrencies like Ethereum. ICOs range from serious fundraising efforts to absurd but startlingly successful jokes, and some have earned endorsements from the likes of Paris Hilton and Ghostface Killah of Wu-Tang Clan. And unlike Dogecoin or other earlier novelty currencies, they’ve attracted serious regulatory attention.
Some countries have outright banned ICOs — China barred the offerings as a form of “illegal public financing,” and South Korea announced “stern penalties” for running them. But other countries have attempted to clarify how existing rules apply to them. The US Securities and Exchange Commission ruled that some ICOs fell under securities law, setting them apart from general crowdfunding efforts. Japanese regulators also outlined how ICOs may fall under existing financial rules. In the US, the SEC has even issued guidance for how celebrities can hawk them.
Cryptocurrencies’ overall legal status is still complicated, but several countries have made major policy decisions around them in 2017. Some of these are negative: China shut down currency exchanges earlier this year, although traders have moved to other platforms, and the SEC rejected a high-profile application for a bitcoin stock fund. Many other countries have given more ambiguous signals. Russian president Vladimir Putin ordered regulators to develop a wide-ranging set of rules for miners and traders, even as officials have signaled a crackdown. India’s government launched a committee earlier this year to study digital currency regulation, and the Supreme Court recently urged it to speed up its work.
People have been prosecuted for cryptocurrency-related crimes like Ponzi schemes in past years, and governments have issued guidance about bitcoin. Some of these new decisions just raise new questions: the SEC, for instance, didn’t address how it would punish a decentralized network for violating securities rules. Likewise, getting attention from investors and regulators doesn’t tell us whether bitcoin will succeed in the long run, or whether cryptocurrencies will play a major role in most people’s lives. But even if cryptocurrencies aren’t directly competing with their traditional counterparts, the past year shows how serious they’ve become to both regulators and investors.


It’s been a long time coming, but Marvel has finally released the first teaser trailer for its upcoming superhero team-up to end all superhero team-ups, Avengers: Infinity War.
As the clip shows, Infinity War is shaping up to be one of Marvel’s biggest movies ever, uniting the Avengers, the Guardians of the Galaxy, and almost every other superhero Marvel has ever put on-screen in the 17 prior films over the last decade. All these heroes are banding together to face off against Thanos, the big bad that Marvel has been teasing since the post-credits scene of the first Avengers back in 2012.
Marvel first showed off a teaser all the way back in July at parent company Disney’s D23 Expo, and again at San Diego Comic-Con, but for the vast majority of fans who weren’t in the audiences at those events, the trailer marks the first look at the film.
Infinity War is set to be a major, game-changing film for Marvel — so big, in fact, that the story will spill over to a second, still-untitled Avengers movie set for release in 2019.
Along with the trailer, Marvel has also released the first poster for the movie, which doesn’t do much but remind viewers that yes, this is in fact an Avengers movie (although the design is a bit of a stylistic nod to the first teaser posters for the original Avengers and Age of Ultron).
Avengers: Infinity War will be arriving in theaters on May 4th, 2018.
Check out the new teaser poster for Avengers #InfinityWar. pic.twitter.com/Ef4XVpSpXe


Facebook has been steadily stealing Snapchat’s features and ideas for years and profiting from them. Whether it’s popular face filters, camera features, stories, or even messaging streaks, Facebook has lifted features from Snapchat and repurposed them without a care in the world. That complete lack of subtlety would make anyone angry, and Snap CEO Evan Spiegel is clearly letting off some steam in an op-ed published in Axios today.
In the op-ed, Spiegel argues that Snapchat’s algorithms are superior to Facebook’s reliance on friends. Referencing Facebook and its fake news problem (without actually naming Facebook), Spiegel describes social networks as “mindless scrambles for friends or unworthy distractions” and criticizes their role in fueling fake news. “Social media fueled ‘fake news’ because content designed to be shared by friends is not necessarily content designed to deliver accurate information,” says Spiegel.
Snap’s CEO even wants to separate Snapchat from being described as a social network altogether. “While many people view Snapchat as a social media service, it is primarily used to talk with friends – like visual texting,” says Spiegel. “Snapchat began as an escape from social media, where people could send photos and videos to their friends without the pressure of likes, comments, and permanence.”
Spiegel wants to focus Snapchat on personalizing stories creating by publishers in a different way to highlighting what your friends share. “The combination of social and media has yielded incredible business results, but has ultimately undermined our relationships with our friends and our relationships with the media,” explains Spiegel. “We believe that the best path forward is disentangling the two by providing a personalized content feed based on what you want to watch, not what your friends post.”
Snapchat is getting a big redesign to help with this new approach, and one that will separate social posts from ones provided by the media. Spiegel’s op-ed teases this redesign, while trying to convince publishers and Snapchat users that its new approach is better than Facebook and helps solve the fake news problem. We’ll have more details on the Snapchat redesign this morning, so we won’t have long to wait to see if this new design achieves its goals.


Bitcoin is now worth over $10,000. The cryptocurrency, which crossed the milestone for the first time since its creation in 2008, surged past $10,000 on Tuesday evening as it climbs toward $11,000, according to research site CoinDesk. Bitcoin has spiked 933 percent since the beginning of the year, when it traded at $968.23, reports the Wall Street Journal.
Despite concerns with Bitcoin’s association with criminal activities, investors have piled into the cryptocurrency recently as an alternative safe haven to more traditional assets like gold. The WSJ does note that though the surge in price has been substantial, it’s unlikely many investors have made a lot given that 75 percent of digital wallets (which are used to store cryptocurrencies) have less than 0.1 Bitcoin in them. Some critics warn that the surge may be indicative of a speculative bubble that may soon burst. At the time of publication Bitcoin was trading at $10,823, according to CoinDesk.
Bitcoin has a market value of $180 billion according to BitInfoCharts, a substantial amount that’s more than the value of General Electric. Rumors have abounded about who the mysterious creator — known only under the pseudonym of Satoshi Nakamoto — of the cryptocurrency is. The latest person to deny they’re Nakamoto was Elon Musk.



Microsoft is planning to release a photos companion app for iOS and Android devices, to quickly transfer pictures to a PC. The app will be available soon for Windows 10 testers, and it will support the quick transfer of photos or videos from phones to PCs on the same Wi-Fi network. Microsoft already offers a similar service through its OneDrive app, which will upload photos in the background on a phone and import them into the Photos app in Windows 10. This new app is designed for most people who don’t already backup their photos to OneDrive.
Italian blog Aggiornamenti Lumia spotted the new companion app, and reports that the Photos app in Windows 10 will also see some improvements, soon. Microsoft is rolling out premium content, including special effects, themes, and music to use in photos and videos. The software giant also appears to be working on stickers for photo stories, which include effects like hats, cars, dinosaurs, and text overlays. All of these features are currently in testing, and are expected to be made available to Windows Insiders in the coming months.
Microsoft has been focusing on a number of experiences between phones and PCs over the past year. After giving up on Windows Phone, Microsoft’s new mobile strategy is to make iOS and Android better. Microsoft is bringing tabs to every app in Windows 10 that will eventually sync to mobile phones, and a Timeline experience that lets you resume activities across devices. Microsoft’s Edge browser is even coming to iOS and Android, as the company continues to make its software and services available across all devices.


Microsoft is planning to overhaul its 500-acre campus in Redmond, Washington. The software giant will start a multi-year project next fall to create 18 new buildings, alongside new public spaces, transportation investments, and sports fields. Microsoft currently has 125 buildings at its campus, and once the project is complete this will rise to 131 buildings.
The updated campus will house 47,000 Microsoft employees that currently work at the company’s headquarters in Redmond, and allow for 8,000 more people. Microsoft is investing billions of dollars to redevelop it campus, and the company will tear down 12 old buildings to create the bigger 18 replacements. The development will take between five and seven years to complete, and includes a 2-acre open plaza that 2,000 people can fit inside.
Microsoft’s plans come shortly after Apple opened its new Apple Park campus earlier this year. Microsoft’s plans aren’t as audacious as a spaceship campus, but the company did recently unveil tree houses for its employees to host meetings 12 feet above ground. Microsoft’s big bet on Redmond also comes at a time when its Seattle cloud rival Amazon is looking elsewhere for its second headquarters. Amazon has fielded bizarre bets from cities desperate for the retail giant to build a campus outside of Seattle.


Essential founder and CEO Andy Rubin has taken a leave of absence from his new company for “personal reasons” following a report on the circumstances of his 2014 departure from Google. According to The Information, Rubin left Google shortly after an investigation found that he had maintained an “inappropriate relationship” with a woman who worked under him and filed a complaint to HR.
The nature of that relationship isn’t detailed in the report, and Rubin’s spokesperson Mike Sitrick denies the connection. “Any relationship that Mr. Rubin had while at Google was consensual,” Sitrick tells The Information. “Mr. Rubin was never told by Google that he engaged in any misconduct while at Google and he did not, either while at Google or since.” Rubin is said to have told Essential employees of his leave of absence on Monday after The Information informed Sitrick of its story.
The woman who filed the complaint reportedly worked in the Android division run by Rubin, which would make any personal relationship between the two violate Google policy; the company requires employees to disclose such relationships so that one of them can be moved to another division. Rubin left the Android department in March 2013 to lead Google’s efforts in robotics, but the HR investigation is said to have taken place in 2014. That investigation, according to The Information, concluded that “Rubin’s behavior was improper and showed bad judgement.”
Rubin founded Danger, the company behind the T-Mobile Sidekick, and co-founded Android before it was bought out by Google. Essential, his new company, is an attempt to build out an ecosystem of premium hardware products, but its first launch appears to have been a flop — the otherwise well-received Essential Phone has seen heavy discounts in recent weeks.
Essential confirmed that Rubin had stepped aside and said that Niccolo de Masi, Essential’s president, would be in charge for the time being. “At our last regularly scheduled board meeting earlier in November, Andy asked for a leave of absence to deal with personal matters,” an Essential spokesperson said. “The Board agreed and our President, Niccolo de Masi, will continue to run day to day operations at Essential.”
Update November 29th, 11:38AM ET: This story has been updated with comment from Essential.


It’s not a self-driving car, but its a car designed for the times when its not being driven. REDS is the alpha prototype for a new Chinese city car conceived by the provocative former BMW design chief Chris Bangle, whom The New York Times car design critic Phil Patton once described as among the most widely known and discussed automobile designers. The Verge had an exclusive look at REDS before its reveal at the Art Center College of Design, in Pasadena, California on the eve of the 2017 Los Angeles Auto Show. The car will be produced by REDSPACE, a new Chinese car company formed by the China Hi-Tech Group Corporation, a commercial manufacturer. It joins a growing number of carmakers launching in the burgeoning Chinese EV market, but that’s where the comparisons to other companies end.
REDS looks like nothing currently on the road. It has a boxy, cartoonish shape Bangle likens to Calvin & Hobbes. The windshield angles upward at an inverse proportion, wings jut out from its sides in the front section of the car and taper off on the rear, and a flat solar-paneled roof forms the shape of a lid. Inside, it resembles a compact apartment living room more than a typical car interior. The characters that inspired the visual language of REDS are straight from the children’s literary canon, a book that Bangle once read to his son and referenced throughout the design process: Richard Scarry’s Cars and Trucks and Things That Go. “When little kids draw cars, this is what they draw,” says Bangle in an interview with The Verge.
Beyond its looks, the guiding premise is what it does. “How one uses the space became the actual driving motif for the vehicle,” Bangle says. Bangle and his team focused on what happens in the car in the time it isn’t being driven, which on average is about 90 percent, he says. “We call it the 90/10 philosophy, meaning we prioritize the 90 percent of a car’s usage when it is not moving rather than the 10 percent when it is.” The car is not equipped with fully autonomous software. “Is the car self-driving? Right now, it is not, but if you think about what kind of cars we might want to have when they do become self-driving, probably this 90/10 philosophy is not a bad one to follow.”
For the immediate future, when plans for REDS move into production, it’s designed to address the challenges drivers face in congested Chinese cities.
“In the megacities in China, we learned that traffic is at a standstill there an awful lot,” Bangle says. “We found out that particularly young people don't have the same availability of private space to themselves that you might expect in other places.” Grappling with the concept in Chinese culture referred to as the “fourth space,” they began to think how the car could be used.  “There has emerged this idea in China of a ‘fourth space.’ They say that there is the one space that is your home, the one that is your office and then a third space that is often noted as being the social space — like coffee shops. This is what Starbucks is trying to be. It's the space where you meet other people. The fourth space is “your space”, a place you configure for your needs and even share when you want. This is REDS.”
What sets the REDS EV apart are two immediate prospects: its wild amorphous 2.97 meter form, only a bit larger than a Smart car that in motion seats four, or when idle, offers room for five, and the return of Bangle to car design, who oversaw all aspects of development through his Turin, Italy based consultancy.
Bangle, who graduated from the Art Center, has a prominent profile that sets him apart from others in the auto industry. He identifies as an artist and has shown his work in museums. In his 2002 TED Talk, he explained his philosophy that car design is an art form, which he said, “Cars are an avatar of yourself,” and described the design process as a collective journey in trust and creativity, a striking departure from the rigid corporate process favored by big car companies. Bangle, who led BMW’s car design program at the time, occupies a unique identity in the history of automotive design. He was known for taking chances, breaking the mold, and sometimes alienating performance car traditionalists in the process. During an era where many car shapes were banal, Bangle’s team helped infuse discussions about shapes and forms that shook up the industry from the X Coupé concept to the infamous rear haunches on the trunk of 2001 BMW E65 7 Series to the grand slam resurrection of the Mini brand for BMW. Before BMW, he also led the design departments at Fiat and designed for General Motor’s German Opel subsidiary.
Shortly after leaving BMW, he launched Chris Bangle Associates, a design consultancy that opened up new ways to apply his 30 years of experience designing cars to other mediums from super yachts, to Japanese spaceships, to Samsung products.
“When I left BMW, I didn't say I was leaving the car business,” Bangle says, “but I did say I was leaving belonging to an OEM, an original equipment manufacturer, a brand like BMW was. I didn't want to go back into a major brand for many reasons.”
Bangle was no longer interested in designing exterior shapes and forms to stretch the boundaries of a new vehicles prospectus, but longed to turn his attention to solving other design challenges.
Mr. Wang Jinan, Assistant President of CHTC Group, Chairman of CHTC Motor approached Bangle about the project in 2014. “They are a company that deals with industry and industrial vehicles and products, but not necessarily cars,” Bangle says. “They hadn't built cars yet, but they're used to high-end technology. They asked if I would help them create a whole new vehicle for a very particular situation. They were very interested in trying to resolve the megacity problem for people in China, where electric vehicles are really the best alternative and they are the future. They wanted a vehicle which specifically addressed what happens to people in big cities.” When he told Mr. Wang he wanted to call it REDS, Mr. Wang coined the acronym “Revolutionary Electric Dream Space.”
Bangle brought in a former BMW colleague Swantje Rössner, who designed interiors for the BMW 7 Series and the X5 to work with his small team. For the exterior lead, he called on former Mazda advanced designer Atsuhiko Yamada.
The design process started with making a car roughly the size of a Smart ForTwo car, and focused on the prospect of maximizing interior space to accommodate a small group of people and storage. The team imagined how to make small car into a space suited for relaxation, which led to a seat configuration that feels more like parts of a Lego build. The driver’s seat swivels around a folding steering wheel and the passenger seats slide and swap positions to make more legroom, designed to make a city car feel like a home office, entertainment center, or even a nursery. “You don't have to break your neck to crane around and talk to the person next to you,” Bangle says of the seat configuration. “It’s important when you want to deal with your baby on the seat behind you. When you've parked and your child is still asleep and you don't want to wake the baby up. You have a space for yourself to deal with something, read a book, write a paper, work on your computer.”
Bangle says the REDS car is also comfortable — though we have yet to lounge in this work of vehicular Tetris.
“This is the first car I think you can actually say it has a wrap-around rear loveseat.” It also includes a built-in foot massage in the floor and a red carpet that rolls out onto the sidewalk for dramatic effect.
Traffic at a standstill means time for relaxation in REDS, which has a 17-inch screen that can be used for gaming or movies. “When you're normally driving, it sticks up about one third of its height and that's where you see all the information about driving, the navigation and the speed and all that kind of stuff. When the car is stopped, it comes all the way up to its full height,” Bangle says.
The high sloping windshield is the most eye-catching element of the exterior, which Bangle says minimizes exposure to direct sunlight and keeps the car cool. It also introduces “Cartesian” sliding doors, and a roof that extends to block the rain. REDS is made of aluminum, a lightweight material, which enhances performance. He worked with a team of Italian engineers near his studio. “As far as I can tell from where we are in our performance data, it will not only have excellent range, but it will also have really excellent acceleration.”
Though it looks like a far off concept, Bangle says it’s moving toward production and will be outfitted with contemporary safety systems to make it applicable to current road conditions. “It will have top-of-the-line electronics and safety systems both passive and active that the people today consider proper and necessary for driving a car,” Bangle says.
Bangle has never been one to shy away from being different. Today his once polarizing contributions are now celebrated. Chris Harris described Bangle’s legacy in Jalopnik: “This is why Chris Bangle was right and we were wrong: because his brand revolution now resonates outside the car-world, and that is unusual. Normally the car industry copies ideas from other, more radical corners of the industrial map, but in the paradigm shifts being undertaken by so many famous brands you see the Bangle effect.”
What Bangle and his team grasp is how to create forms that make an impression, and express purpose. Another key element of REDS is its decidedly cute appearance — and that’s intentional, too. Bangle’s process is reflected in this proposition that is three years in the making. “The experience that we have in the car business is that if you present people with just an unusual shape, it takes them a while to get a hold of it. This is not always a good selling argument. There has to be another compelling reason of, 'I want to have this car.' The best reason to want something in the car business is because of its character.”
Harkening back to Richard Scarry’s worldview of the automobile is to tempt the beholder with an expression of childlike whimsy, and create a sense of openness to change. In China, where EVs are primed to transform the landscape, REDS is making a scene-stealing entrance.






In shocking news, Marvel’s new editor-in-chief, C.B. Cebulski, admitted today that he masqueraded as a Japanese person for a year writing comics under the pseudonym “Akira Yoshida,” as first reported by Bleeding Cool, and then picked up by Vulture. Under the name Yoshida, Cebulski wrote Marvel comics featuring Wolverine, Thor, and Kitty Pryde in stories set in Japan and having to do with martial arts from 2005 to 2006.
The con began when Cebulski needed to establish a writing career while still at Marvel. He started out with smaller gigs like writing “Conan and the Demons of Khitai” for Dark Horse Comics and then got noticed and hired by another Marvel editor.
Doing so violated Marvel’s ethics policy against letting editors write or draw comic books but by using the name Yoshida, Cebulski was able to skirt this rule while seemingly adding a layer of authenticity to telling Japanese-influenced stories. Marvel even boasted of this appearance of diversity, saying that it was uncommon for a non-Anglophone writer to succeed in the US.
Cebulski also presented a fake backstory as Akira Yoshida when interviewed by CBR, claiming to have grown up in Japan and the US and to have worked for Fujimi Shobo, a Tokyo-based publisher. In reality, Cebulski himself has family in Japan, has lived there before and now resides in Shanghai, China. A few months later, Yoshida disappeared — Cebulski ditched the name and then became a talent scout for Marvel in 2007 under his real name soon after. Rumors circulated around, especially as Johnston prodded Marvel editors, including Cebulski, about whether Yoshida really existed.
A 2015 post by Brian Cronin debunking Marvel urban legends found that several editors had never spoken with Yoshida before, which suggested that the rumor was true, but Marvel editor Mike Marts then claimed that he had lunch with Yoshida who showed him a Godzilla memorabilia collection. That man was a visiting Japanese translator and not the fictional Yoshida, according to Johnston, which leads us to the troubling fact that the editors couldn’t tell the difference.
Then in July this year, a former Marvel editor released a podcast short story vaguely about the comics books giant, with all the names changed around, calling C.B. Cebulski, C.J. Cregg, for the West Wing character. It hinted at the Akira Yoshida pseudonym and started the rumors swirling again until Cebulski admitted the hoax to Bleeding Cool today.
What’s also troubling is that Cebulski so far appears unaccountable for his masquerade. The current Marvel editor-in-chief confessed to executives internally that he was Yoshida and told Johnston today that, “this is all old news that has been dealt with.” The timing of his more public confession this time around is coincidental with Cebulski’s first day as Marvel head.
A report by The Hollywood Reporter when Cebulski’s promotion was first announced last week noted how the man had few writing credentials to his name. Now we know why.


Grindr announced new updates today to its gay dating app on iOS and Android that are designed to make its social network feel more inclusive of transgender users. The app will now include more gender-neutral terms, and it’s getting an identity section on user profiles that includes options for gender and pronouns. Importantly, users can also write in their gender identity if it’s not on the list and specify pronouns that also might not be listed. Additionally, gender-neutral language is used across the app, and there’s now an FAQ explaining trans issues.
Gender options listed include “trans man,” “woman,” “cis man,” “non-binary,” “non-conforming,” and “queer.” The options are meant to make it easier for users to express their identities without having to constantly explain and answer other users’ questions.
The changes come as a direct result of Grindr conducting a survey with thousands of existing users of the app who are transgender. Transgender users gave feedback to app developers saying that their non-trans peers didn’t know how to speak respectfully about transgender issues.
“We created written resources linked from the gender identity fields in the profile to answer cis users’ questions and decrease that burden on trans people,” Grindr director of equality Jack Harrison-Quintana said in an emailed statement.




Google’s Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL phones haven’t had the smoothest of launches, with screen issues, quality control problems, and audio bugs in some units. Fortunately, Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL users will have one less thing to worry about soon, as Google has announced that it has identified a problem causing the phones to randomly reboot. It will be issuing a fix “in the coming weeks,” according to Android Police. That could come either bundled as part of a monthly security update (which sometimes include Pixel fixes) or a future Android software release.
The bug was reported on both Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL devices, and according to various forum threads, it resulted in the phones rebooting seemingly at random. So, if you’ve been experiencing this on your own devices, at least you can take solace in the fact that Google has figured out what’s wrong and will be fixing it soon.
And while it’s no doubt frustrating that these issues continue to crop up on what are supposed to be flagship phones, at least Google is continuing to do its best to fix problems as they continue to pop up.


Federal judge William Alsup delayed the upcoming trial between Uber and Waymo because the ride-hailing company withheld key evidence during the discovery process. Waymo, the self-driving car company that was spun out of Google, sued Uber in February for allegedly stealing key parts of its autonomous vehicle technology.
The evidence in question is a 37-page memo from ex-Uber security analyst Ric Jacobs that was written to the company’s legal team. The letter states that Uber’s “Marketplace Analytics” team existed for the sole purpose of “acquiring trade secrets, code base,” and other intelligence from competitors including Waymo, according to Gizmodo. The letter also describes concern over clandestine practices performed by Uber, such as using “non-attributable” devices and self-destructing chat apps like Wickr that helped hide communications about these practices. (Uber was previously found to be using Wickr when it was caught investigating its legal foes in 2016.)
Jacobs, who was fired by Uber in April, took the stand at a hearing Tuesday in San Francisco to answer questions about the letter. He contradicted some of the claims made in it, including the specific mention of knowledge of stealing from Waymo. Jacobs’ disagreements reportedly come from the fact that he didn’t fully read the letter before his legal team sent it.
He added that he reached a settlement with Uber after his firing, and that he has agreed not to disparage the company in the press or public. But Jacobs made other claims during his time on the stand that could damage Uber’s defense in the Waymo lawsuit.
The suit centers around the alleged theft of thousands of documents by former Google self-driving engineer Anthony Levandowski. Shortly after Levandowski left Google, he founded Otto, a self-driving truck startup. Otto was eventually acquired by Uber. Waymo’s lawyers have argued that Uber wound up with those allegedly stolen files and merely masqueraded the process as an acquisition.
Jacobs testified that Uber established these shadow communications channels and practices in order to protect the company from potential litigation. He also testified that Ed Russo, who works for Uber’s Strategic Services Group, bragged about using these communication methods to set up secret meetings between CEOs of a “big” and “small” company around this time. He also testified that this Strategic Services Group had two "off the books" employees working on the company’s self-driving car unit.
The letter from Jacobs was reportedly shared with Alsup last week by the US Department of Justice. It was apparently collected by the US attorneys’ office earlier this year as part of one of the many ongoing criminal investigations into Uber’s business practices. Waymo asked Alsup Monday to delay the case in light of the letter’s surfacing, and argued that Uber intentionally withheld and destroyed evidence related to the letter.
The in-house counsel that Jacobs’ letter was addressed to, Angela Padilla, testified Tuesday that the company had used approved search terms to search for any documents related to the trial. She had previously testified that the company looked “everywhere” for evidence to include in the discovery process.
“I can no longer trust the words of the lawyers for Uber in this case,” Alsup said at today’s hearing. “We’re going to have to put the trial off because if even half of what’s in that letter is true it would be a huge injustice to force Waymo to go to trial.”
“We have to get more to the bottom of this shadow system Uber set up,” Alsup reportedly added. It’s clear, he said, that the “real stuff goes on the shadow system.”
The trial was slated for December 4th, but no new date has been set. The jury duty process has been canceled for now.



This year’s Cyber Monday was the biggest sales day for online and for mobile ever in the US. Online sales brought in $6.59 billion in total, while sales on mobile broke a new record by reaching $2 billion. Mobile also dominated over desktop for the first time for Shopify merchants, which include brands as varied as Tesla Motors and Kylie Cosmetics, according to the company.
Part of this is because retailer apps and mobile wallet services have made it easier than ever to shop on your iPhone or Android device, Business Insider reports. Seventy-five percent of millennials were more likely to shop on their smartphones than on computers, according to Adobe Analytics data.
The top-selling items of Cyber Monday included Google Chromecasts, Roku devices, Apple iPads, Samsung Tablets, Apple AirPods, and Sony PlayStation VR headset core systems. Super Mario Odyssey was the best-selling video game, and the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One X were the most popular consoles.
While Amazon kept actual numbers out of its post-Cyber Monday press statement, it did say that it sold millions of Alexa-enabled devices over the long weekend and that the Echo Spot has sold out, while the Echo Dot performed the best at Whole Foods stores in the US.
Cyber Monday’s online sales numbers are second only to Alibaba’s Singles Day’s numbers mainly in China. The festival-driven holiday invented by Alibaba falls on November 11th, and it raked in $25.3 billion this year, which is bigger than Black Friday and Cyber Monday combined.





There’s a major flaw in Apple’s macOS High Sierra operating system that allows anyone with physical access to a Mac to gain system administrator access without so much as entering a password. Late Tuesday, Apple confirmed that it’s working on a software update to fix the issue and published step-by-step instructions to help customers protect their machines in the meantime.
The vulnerability was publicly disclosed on Twitter this afternoon; it’s not clear whether the problem was privately reported to Apple ahead of time, which is the encouraged practice when security vulnerabilities are uncovered. (The company maintains an invite-only bug bounty program.) Despite its incredibly alarming simplicity, The Verge is not reproducing the steps to bypass High Sierra’s login screen here. It does not affect Sierra or other previous macOS versions.
However, The Verge has been able to confirm the major security issue remains present as of MacOS 10.13.1, the current release of High Sierra. When the problem is exploited, the user is authenticated into a “System Administrator” account and is given full ability to view files and even reset or change passwords for pre-existing users on that machine. Apple ID email addresses tied to users on the Mac can be removed and altered, as well. There are likely many more ways that someone taking advantage of the issue could wreak havoc on a Mac desktop or laptop.
The level of unbridled access this security hole permits — and it abruptly being made public — will almost certainly prompt Apple to move fast in releasing an update for its Mac operating system. The company hasn’t yet provided a release timeframe for that update.
Until that happens, the best way to protect your Mac against the issue reported today is by ensuring that you’ve set a root password. To do that, go to System Preferences > Users & Groups > Login Options > Join > Open Directory Utility > Edit pulldown menu. Enable the Root User if you haven’t already and then choose Change Root Password. (Thanks, dyavuz!)
The Verge has reached out to Apple for further details.


Expensify is a popular app that helps employees quickly submit reports for business-related expenses. Expensify’s standout feature is its SmartScan OCR, or optical character recognition, technology. The feature saves data-entry time by scanning your receipt, verifying that the expense is compliant with your employer’s rules, and then organizing it into an expense report — all automatically. When the technology fails, however, Expensify says it has a team of secure technicians to intervene behind the scenes. But Twitter users grew concerned after the discovery of several Expensify receipts on Amazon’s Mechanical Turk service last week.
Mechanical Turk is a crowdsourcing marketplace where anyone can post tasks that need completing for small sums of money. Twitter user Rochelle found receipts hosted on Expensify.com that were visible on the platform, complete with details about names, dates, addresses, and signatures. One receipt apparently showed Uber pickup and drop-off locations.
Cool, I just went browsing through @expensify's jobs on MTurk. found boarding passes, hotel receipts (name, dates, details), medical receipts, addresses, signatures, and a whole lot of burgers and burritos.I also just turned off SmartScan, because that's super creepy. https://t.co/VVJ522Xw2V
In a blog post, the company says those receipts were part of testing its new Private SmartScan feature that allow companies to staff their own team of Mechanical Turk transcribers. Expensify said that it started live testing the system on September 20th, with the initial testing only using Expensify employee receipts. On November 15th, the company began processing 10 percent of non-paying user receipts that require human review on Turk, but access was still limited to its own SmartScan agents. It then opened up access to the receipts to all vetted Turk workers on November 22nd. A day later, after Twitter users voiced their concern, the company stopped the test and returned all the receipts to private SmartScan agents.
“The only users who can access receipts are the Mechanical Turk workers. The only way to access the worker interface (to view receipts) is to be a worker,” Expensify CEO David Barrett said in an interview with The Verge. Turk workers are thoroughly vetted by Amazon, and Barrett says during the 24 hours, hundreds of receipts from three users were open to all of the Turk workers, compared to the routine millions it usually handles.
Expensify says Private SmartScan will allow companies to have better control over who views the receipts processed. The Private SmartScan feature is in early stages of testing though and it won’t be available until sometime next year, and only to customers on the company’s Enterprise Plan. The discovery caused some Expensify users to disable the SmartScan feature in the app, making the expense report service much less useful. “We take our privacy very seriously as a financial company, privacy is an extremely important thing, and so security and privacy are the bedrock of our company,” Barrett said.


In a bid to encourage more users to privately message one another, Instagram today announced a new feature it’s calling “remixing.” The process involves editing a friend’s photo sent to you via direct message with stickers and custom text and doodles, and then sending it back to them within another photo of yourself.
That way, you can make it seem like your friend’s selfie is part of your own staged scene, giving your friend free rein to make you look as goofy or compromised as possible. You can also control how many times the message can be viewed by your friends by choosing between “one view” or “allow replay” options when sending. The update is live now, Instagram says.
If that sounds confusing, that’s because it is. But visually, you can see what the app maker is going for here:
You can probably already see all the playful chaos you can cause with such a feature when applied with a more adult-themed mindset. I mean, we live in a world where a US Navy pilot drew a giant penis using the exhaust clouds of his aircraft this month. I shudder to think of the kind of vandalism close friends may be willing to subject one another to in the privacy of their Instagram DM chats.
Still, perhaps I’m expecting the worst out of what may amount to a relatively harmless feature. Maybe people will really draw goofy neon light sunglasses on their friends’ faces, or share their colorful, tropical-themed drinks and never pull pranks on each other using unfettered access to doodling tools and a perfectly innocent photograph. What a world that would be.


The 2018 Grammy Award nominations were released this morning, and certain categories looked markedly more diverse in their selections. “Despacito” became the first Spanish-language song to be nominated for Record of the Year and Song of the Year, every lead artist nominated for Record of the Year was a person of color, and the list for best Album of the Year did not contain a single white male artist for the first time in Grammy history. (Sorry, Ed Sheeran.) In short, the nominations are incredibly diverse. Even Recording Academy CEO Neil Portnow noticed, telling Billboard it’s "a wonderful reflection on our organization and how relevant and in touch and savvy our voting members are."
So, how did this happen? A switch to digital voting and a revamp of the Grammy online platform are likely large contributing factors. Grammy nominees are decided by voting members: music industry professionals who have creative or technical credits on at least six commercial tracks on a physical music release, or 12 on a digital album. They’re not just label bigwigs. They’re songwriters, touring artists, and engineers. And, there’s only about 13,000 of them. So we discussed how these changes could have such a dramatic impact on the current crop of Grammy nominees.
Micah Singleton: Back in June, the The Grammys finally switched to online voting, allowing more of their 13,000-member voting block to participate. If you’re a touring artist or a successful producer or songwriter, chances are you aren’t sitting at home waiting for a ballot to come in the mail, which is how the Grammys have been run up until this year. Now that more people have the ability to vote, we see the results: a far more diverse field than ever, especially in the top categories. Dani, you’re a new member of the Recording Academy. How have the changes affected you?
Dani Deahl: Micah, you were actually the one who pushed me to apply and become a Grammy voting member! Once my application was accepted, I realized just how much opportunity there is for voting members to make a difference. There’s only around 13,000 of us deciding who gets these very important awards. I also wasn’t aware until you told me that this was the first year voting members could cast votes online. Since many voting members are on the road much of the time, I can imagine it would be a major hassle to make your voice heard. Do you think the Academy saw online voting as a way to diversify, or was it simply catching up with technology?
MS: I think it was both. It seems like The Academy got tired of the constant backlash after the less-than-diverse group of winners that emerged nearly every year. A hip-hop artist hasn’t won Album of the Year in 13 years (Outkast), and a black woman hasn’t won since 1999 (Lauryn Hill), despite the existence of Beyoncé, Rihanna, Alicia Keys, Solange, and a host of other black women who have released great albums. Even SZA, whose album Ctrl was my favorite in 2017, didn’t get an Album of the Year nomination, so there’s still a ways to go.
A reminder that a black woman hasn’t won album of the year in nearly 20 years despite the existence of Beyoncé, Mariah, Solange, Alicia, Rih
Online voting also means that the artists, songwriters, and producers who are on the road creating musical culture can vote with ease. Imagine if you were able to vote in the presidential election online, instead of having to stand in line or mail a ballot in. The turnout would skyrocket, and the same is true for the Grammys. They removed the roadblocks to vote, and the first outcome of the new system makes me optimistic.
DD: In practice, what you’re describing with the paper votes prevented or discouraged a lot of people from voting, and they weren’t usually the most established members of the industry. Also, Grammy VP Bill Freimuth said there were a lot of other problems with paper ballots, aside from the inconvenience of mailing them. Ballots were often filled out incorrectly, or members would vote in categories where they weren’t authorized. “This way the software will not let them submit incorrectly,” Freimuth told Variety. “Finally, on the same site, voters will be able to listen to or watch all of the nominated recordings or videos, or look at the nominees for package design. It makes for more informed voting on the whole, than voting based on name recognition and popularity and charts and things like that.”
Previously, you had to find the material you were voting on… on your own? Who’s got time for that? No one! Most people probably voted based on the small range of music they’d already heard, or names they recognized. How much has this new system corrected things? Do this year’s nominees more closely reflect the albums that are “the best” as opposed to previous years?
MS: I don’t think moving to online voting changed how people vote; it just made some people’s votes carry less weight, in a sense. Now someone who doesn’t listen to rap or someone who doesn’t know rock music won’t necessarily have an outsized influence on the genre, if the people who are knowledgeable have more access. And sure, you could say members always had the ability to vote, but they didn’t do it in the past. This year’s nominations are the clearest indicator of that. Childish Gambino got nominated for Album of the Year, and deservedly so. But do you think a part-funk, part neo-soul album from a rapper stood a chance of garnering the highest nomination last year? I don’t.
There have been so many misses, most notably for Album of the Year, over the past decade, and this is the first time it doesn’t feel like there was a major oversight (besides Ctrl). That’s progress. The final results may be a different story, but we won’t find out until the Grammys in January.
Let’s talk about white men. How shocked are you that this is the first time in history a white man hasn’t been nominated for Album of the Year?
DD: I’m shocked, and also… not shocked? Every time something like this happens there’s this duality in my head of “wow, this is amazing!” and also “wow, this just happened now?” There is such weight in seeing people you identify with get recognized at the highest level. Some might think the Grammys don’t mean much, but they are absolutely influential and a reflection of culture. They make careers.
Notice anything about the 2018 Grammy nominations for album of the year?Childish Gambino: Awaken, My LoveJay Z: 4:44Kendrick Lamar: DamnLorde: MelodramaBruno Mars: 24K MagicThis is the FIRST TIME EVER no white guys have been nominated. EVER.#GRAMMYs #GrammyNominations
I’m so used to seeing lists of nominees for all awards populated by white men, so Album of the Year was striking to me right away. Also, it’s not about not seeing white men as much as it is about seeing different groups of people get accolades for their work — people who might have been overlooked before. The voting members aren’t shadowy figures pulling strings behind a curtain. Sure, some members are very powerful people in the industry, but a lot of them are like me: musicians who tour and have singles and live the late nights, early flights lifestyle.
It was relatively easy for older executives and producers to vote in the previous system, but not so for someone like me. Now, the people actually contributing to cultural change the most — touring musicians, new producers and songwriters, etc. — have access to participate in ways that were never there before. This year’s list is a direct reflection of that. When you make a system easier for everyone to use, everyone wins.


Hulu has been steadily rolling out its new UI and live TV service to a whole bunch of platforms since it was first announced in May. Next up: Samsung’s smart TVs, as spotted by Multichannel.
All of Samsung’s most recent 2017 models are getting the update, which should be automatically waiting for users the next time they use the bundled Hulu app. Now, Samsung’s smart TV join the Apple TV, Xbox One, iOS, Android, Chromecast, Amazon’s Fire TV and Fire Stick, the 12-year old Xbox 360, and even the Nintendo Switch in offering the app.
The lone holdout is still, of course, Sony’s PlayStation consoles, which have been updated to the new UI. But due to Sony’s own competing PlayStation Vue over-the-top TV service, they don’t have access to Hulu’s live TV service — something that will likely remain the case for the foreseeable future.


As part of Giving Tuesday, Google has added a new Donate button to its knowledge graph when you search for recognized nonprofit organizations. The Donate button allows you to directly contribute money to nonprofits when searching for them on the web, though the organization also has to enroll with Google for the button to appear. (I checked through large organizations like the American Red Cross, UNICEF, Planned Parenthood, and Feed The Children, but did not find the buttons available yet.)
Unlike Facebook’s Charitable Givings feature that has gotten popular with users who “donate” their birthdays to fundraising, Google does not charge a fee when donations are made through its button. (Facebook charges 5 percent for donations made within the US.) However, for Giving Tuesday, Facebook says it is working with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to match up to $2 million in donations, and it will waive the usual 5 percent fee for contributions made this on its platform today. Facebook is also expected to hold a Social Good Forum in New York City on Wednesday, where CEO Mark Zuckerberg will be in attendance.
According to Google, about 30 percent of charitable donations occur during the holiday season. Its hopes are that the new donate button makes it easier for online shoppers to consider giving, though it is currently live for US-based charities at this time. In the past, the company has added a similar function during natural disasters so those reading news alerts can be prompted to contribute.


The Federal Communications Commission put out a final proposal last week to end net neutrality. The proposal opens the door for internet service providers to create fast and slow lanes, to block websites, and to prioritize their own content. This isn’t speculation. It’s all there in the text.
But a new “fact sheet” sent out by the FCC today asks: what if facts are flexible things that we can bend to our preferred reality? It lists a series of “myths” about the commission’s proposal, followed by “facts” that supposedly debunk them — except the facts are often wrong, or directly confirm the myth that they’re trying to debunk.
Here are some of the most flagrant examples.
Let’s start with this one:
MYTH:  This will result in “fast lanes” and “slow lanes” on the internet that will worsen consumers’ online experience.
FACT:  Restoring internet freedom will lead to better, faster, and cheaper broadband for consumers and give startups that need priority access (such as telehealth applications) the chance to offer new services to consumers.
Note that the “fact” never states that fast and slow lanes won’t be created. And the new services it mentions are just fast and slow lanes for specific applications.
If you read carefully, you’ll notice the FCC isn’t even trying to debunk the creation of fast and slow lanes. It’s just trying to debunk that they “will worsen consumers’ online experience.” That’s a matter of opinion, and clearly, we all know which side the FCC lands on.
The commission makes several similar admissions elsewhere in the “fact sheet,” where it ends up proving what it set out to debunk. This one’s a bit longer, but it’s among the more absurd parts of the list:
MYTH:  Internet service providers will block you from visiting the websites you want to visit.
FACT:  Internet service providers didn’t block websites before the Obama Administration’s heavy-handed 2015 internet regulations and won’t after they are repealed. Any internet service provider would be required to publicly disclose this practice and would face fierce consumer backlash as well as scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission, which will have renewed authority to police unfair, deceptive, and anticompetitive practices.
The FCC is trying to repeal a rule that stops ISPs from blocking websites, so the commission absolutely can’t guarantee internet providers won’t do that when the rules are gone. But despite saying this “won’t” happen, the answer goes on to say, okay, maybe ISPs will block sites. But hey, people will get mad about it!
The FCC even acknowledges here that consumers have a strong preference for an open internet. Which, again, is the thing the FCC’s new proposal would stop protecting.
The “fact sheet” also says repealing net neutrality will “promote consumers’ online privacy,” when the reality is that the FCC passed stricter privacy rules than what consumers will receive without net neutrality.
On a really technical level, the FCC is correct here. The commission’s privacy rules were struck down by Congress earlier this year, so there aren’t any privacy rules in place at the moment. But that happened, in part at least, thanks to the current FCC chairman’s campaign against them.
Had those rules been kept in place, consumers would have been covered by much stricter privacy protections than what the Federal Trade Commission will guarantee. That’s because the FTC mostly has privacy guidelines — not strict rules — whereas the FCC was able to define specific behaviors that are unacceptable.
Without net neutrality, privacy enforcement will go back to the FTC’s broader approach.
The FCC’s big argument against net neutrality is that the policy is hurting investment in broadband networks, thus slowing the expansion of nationwide internet access. And if you only look at the numbers cable companies give you, that would appear to be true. The commission says “broadband investment has fallen for two years in a row — the first time that’s happened outside of a recession in the Internet era.”
But it’s looking at numbers provided by USTelecom, a telecom lobbying group. And it’s looking at them quite narrowly, too, only between 2009 and 2014 for comparison.
If you take a broader view, it’s clear that broadband investment had already been declining before net neutrality was put in place. Business Insider’s Steve Kovach asked the commission about this last week, and a senior FCC official declined to elaborate. The FCC doesn’t provide any further detail here either.
The stories that ISPs tell their investors is also very different from the stories they tell the FCC. And while there have been measurable dips in investment, it’s partly due to things like acquisitions and oil prices (something even the telecom industry admits).
But the true absurdity of this list goes back to the questions like this:
MYTH:  Broadband providers will charge you a premium if you want to reach certain online content.
FACT:  This didn’t happen before the Obama Administration’s 2015 heavy-handed Internet regulations, and it won’t happen after they are repealed.
The simple fact is, internet providers will be able to do this once the net neutrality rules are repealed, and the FCC is well aware of that. The commission simply can’t make this statement while simultaneously removing the rule that prevents this type of behavior.
What the commission is arguing here is that, because something didn’t happen in the past, it therefore won’t happen in the future. But that’s not how anything works. And there’s a good argument to make that, because the FCC is explicitly giving ISPs the thumbs-up on this stuff, it’s more likely to happen than ever.
In fact, we’re already starting to see this happen. AT&T and Verizon, among others, are running zero-rating schemes that advantage their own content. As more and more consolidation happens, ISPs will be incentivized to go further, bundling content and providing free or faster data to make sure their own programs are the most watched. That means consumers could end up paying a premium to escape from their walled gardens.
If the FCC really wanted to guarantee that ISPs can’t charge tolls to access content, prioritize certain sites and services, and create fast and slow lanes, then it wouldn’t repeal net neutrality. Instead, it’s created a wildly misleading “fact sheet” to tell Americans it’s all going to be okay.


Google CEO Sundar Pichai promised to look into the great cheeseburger emoji debate, and he's made good on his word. Apparently Android 8.1 ships with a new and improved cheeseburger emoji in which the cheese is placed atop the patty, as opposed to underneath it. Emojipedia first spotted the fix.
Google previously pictured the cheese at the bottom of the sandwich, which we can all agree is incorrect. But it wasn't until someone named Thomas Baekdal called the emoji out in October that the world woke up to this extremely incorrect cheeseburger depiction.
I think we need to have a discussion about how Google's burger emoji is placing the cheese underneath the burger, while Apple puts it on top pic.twitter.com/PgXmCkY3Yc
Although Google has now realized the proper way to make a cheeseburger, the company did also create its emoji IRL. It served an "Android Burger" to employees earlier this month with the cheese melted onto the bottom bun. I don't know how it tasted.
Lunch at Google today: an "Android Burger"   pic.twitter.com/I4dwOUPASg
There are still some slight variations in emoji cheeseburgers. Samsung, for example, layers the sandwich as tomato, cheese, lettuce, and then the patty, whereas Apple depicts its emoji as having tomato, cheese, patty, and then lettuce. Google seems to be  on the right track here with its lettuce on top. This is proper. This is how we make a cheeseburger, and I'm thrilled Google has learned.


Amazon today announced that third-party developers will be able to make use of the Alexa assistant’s voice recognition feature to personalize apps for its line of Echo speakers. The news, announced at Amazon’s re:Invent conference in Las Vegas and reported first by TechCrunch, builds on the company’s announcement in October that Alexa can now identify individual users’ voices to personalize responses.
Until today, that recognition feature only worked for Amazon-built services like shopping lists, flash briefing news updates, and Amazon Music, among other built-in skills. Starting some time in early 2018, however, developers will be able to tap into those voice-based profiles to make apps more personalized to various members of a household. This will put Amazon on par with rival Google in the smart home and digital assistant fields. Google launched multi-user support using voice recognition back in April and later on added the ability for developers to tap into this data for third-party apps.
In addition to announcing voice recognition for third-party apps, Amazon also revealed today at re:Invent that it’s bringing Alexa notifications on Echo speakers to a wider pool of developers starting today. The feature was first announced earlier this year before it entered a private beta testing period in September. Now, Amazon says Alexa notifications are ready for broader availability.
The notifications, which are opt-in only on the user end, combine an audio cue — typically some type of chime and spoken alert courtesy of Alexa — with a blueish green light change on the Echo speaker ring to signify an app notification. Users can then hear the notification with either a physical tap on the speaker or an audio command like, “Alexa, what did I miss?,” according to TechCrunch. Existing Alexa skills in the news, weather, and food delivery categories can make use of the feature, and Amazon says more apps will start incorporating notifications going forward.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Google does not give developers access to Google Home’s voice recognition feature; it does in fact allow third-party apps to use this data to personalize experiences.


Amazon unveiled its Echo Buttons at a big hardware event earlier this year, promising that the hockey puck-shaped buzzers would be ready in time for trivia games at Christmas. Amazon is now opening preorders for the Echo Buttons, available in the US in a two-pack for $19.99. The buttons will ship around December 19th, just in time for the holidays.
Each Echo Button will connect to an Echo device via Bluetooth to play single-player or multiplayer trivia games. Amazon is providing a number of games at launch, including music trivia, sound effect games, basketball trivia, and a football quiz. The Echo Buttons illuminate and can be used as buzzers to answer the questions that Alexa reads aloud. Amazon’s Echo Buttons are the first “Alexa Gadgets,” and more hardware accessories are planned for the future.


Facebook loves to steal Snapchat features to block the popular messaging app’s momentum. Ephemeral stories and messaging have arrived in Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp previously, and the company has even lifted Snapchat’s popular face filters and camera features. Facebook is now setting its sights on the streak feature of Snapchat, an addictive game that encourages friends to send messages back and forth for consecutive days.
Like Snapchat streaks, Facebook Messenger streaks include an emoji status for anyone you’re currently in a streak with. Facebook appears to be testing this on limited accounts at the moment. Twitter user Case Sandberg discovered the streaks feature, and other Facebook Messenger users have also noticed it in testing. It’s not clear if this is a limited test that won’t reach all Facebook accounts, or the start of the gamification of Facebook Messenger. Some of Facebook’s Snapchat clones don’t always work out.
Messenger is testing out streak counts... Streak counts really bug me. pic.twitter.com/leDRemkSR3
Streaks have become a popular part of Snapchat, thanks primarily to its young audience. Snapchat uses the feature to encourage its users to send more snaps, and even warns friends when a Snapstreak is about to expire. If Facebook is preparing to clone this, then don’t be surprised to see it show up in Instagram and WhatsApp. If Facebook is desperate enough to steal features from Snapchat, then it’s definitely desperate enough to spread this feature everywhere to keep you engaged with its various services.



Black Friday is around the corner and companies like HP are already releasing their deals. HP just announced several online deals that mostly go live on November 23rd.
Deals on most of the products listed below will go live on Thanksgiving, but in rare cases, like the 15-inch HP Envy Laptop x360, the full discount is already available.
Of the 15-page Black Friday ad, there weren’t that many products that offered a good amount of RAM and processing power for their buck. But not to worry, we’ve picked out the best of the best here:
Laptops
HP Envy x360 15-inch with a Core i5 for $669.99 (usually $869.99)
HP Envy x360 15-inch with a Core i7 for $729.99 (usually $929.99)
HP Spectre x360 13-inch for $899.99 (usually $1,149.99)
HP Spectre x360 15-inch for $1,129.99 (usually $1,399.99)
HP Envy x360 15z with AMD Ryzen 5 2500U Quad-Core for $699.99 (usually $799.99)
All-in-ones
HP Pavilion 24 All-in-One PC for $799.99 (usually $999.99)
HP Pavilion 27 All-in-One PC for $1,149.99 (usually $1,599.99)
Update November 22nd, 6:10PM ET: This article has been updated with a new deal from HP’s second ad scan.





Just like we use pumice stones to scrape dead skin off cracked heels during pedicures, bowhead whales may be using boulders at the bottom of the ocean to exfoliate, new research says. Identifying these scratching stones could be key to keeping human activity from disturbing these massive creatures.
In the summer of 2014, a team of researchers spotted a handful of odd-looking bowhead whales in a bay off the northeastern coast of Canada. These Arctic marine mammals average 50 to 60 feet long, and are powerful enough to break through ice. But this group looked splotchy, with patches of light gray and loose skin decorating their dark gray backs. And they kept rolling on their sides and backs and lifting their flippers out of the water. Apparently, they were in the bay for a good scratching, according to a study published today in the journal PLOS ONE.
Sloughing off dead skin and hair and regrowing them anew is called molting. Most whales, dolphins, and porpoises molt year-round — kind of like we do. But Arctic species like belugas are thought to molt all at once when they visit warmer waters during the summer. Bowhead whales have similar skin to belugas, and have been spotted molting in Russia’s Okhotsk sea. Graduate student Sarah Fortune at the University of British Columbia didn’t know if this specific population of bowhead whales in eastern Canada were regular exfoliators, too.
So two years later, the researchers went back to the same spot — this time, with a DJI Phantom 3 Professional drone. The team flew the drone to snap aerial pictures and videos of 83 whales. (The water was clear enough for them to see what the whales were doing at the bottom of the shallow bay.)
Almost all of them had splotchy skin. Many spent their time alternating between resting or rubbing their chins, heads, backs, and sides against the boulders in the bay. One whale was caught spending what was probably a blissful eight minutes scraping itself against a boulder. “We saw very clearly that the whales were taking turns rubbing their bodies on these rocks,” Fortune says. The whales bumped up against each other, too.
Fortune hopes that her research will be the starting point for identifying other bays around the world where bowhead whales turn for a good scratch. That way people can steer clear of them and let the whales do what they need to. The exfoliation ritual, in fact, might be more important than it seems. The whales may need to shrug off skin infested by parasites like whale lice or gunked up by plankton that might make it harder to regulate their body temperatures. The whales might also be getting rid of sun-damaged skin that would otherwise accumulate over lives more than 200 years long.
Or, just maybe, they do it because scraping off peeling skin feels so good.


A few weeks ago, as it seemed more and more likely that FCC chairman Ajit Pai would successfully dismantle US net neutrality rules, California Congressional representative Ro Khanna tweeted an alarming-looking screenshot from Portuguese mobile carrier Meo. “In Portugal, with no net neutrality, internet providers are starting to split the net into packages,” he wrote.
Since October 26th, this message has been retweeted over 58,000 times, and liked over 46,000 times. As Techdirt pointed out, it looks remarkably similar to a satirical chart showing internet services split into cable-style bundles, a graphic that’s been used to drive home the importance of net neutrality for years. But it’s also seriously misleading — in a way that misses a more important and subtle point about net neutrality.
In Portugal, with no net neutrality, internet providers are starting to split the net into packages. pic.twitter.com/TlLYGezmv6
The plan Khanna tweeted is called “Smart Net,” and as he correctly notes, it offers monthly subscription packages with names like Messaging, Social, and Video. Each of the five categories includes several big-name apps, including Netflix, FaceTime, Spotify, and Google Drive.
But based on Meo’s website, this doesn’t look like buying cable channels for the internet. It’s an add-on to general-purpose mobile subscriptions, which let you access any service — including the ones above. The idea is apparently that if you’re into apps like Snapchat and Facebook (or... LinkedIn, I guess), you pay around $8 a month to specifically get more “Social” data, so you can use your regular allotment for everything else. It looks a lot like the “Vodafone Pass” service in the UK, where subscribers can pay for unlimited access to a similar stable of services.
Techdirt explains this nuance, as does Quartz. But Khanna’s original tweet — the pithy statement that’s getting passed around context-free on social media — doesn’t. It implies that Meo is blocking or limiting certain “packages” unless you pay for them, the way that you can’t watch HBO without the right cable plan. His office didn’t immediately respond to an email asking for clarification.
“Portugal doesn’t have net neutrality, so it ended up with a dystopian cable-style internet” is also a bad argument for other reasons. For one thing, Portugal is part of the EU, which published widely praised net neutrality rules last year. More importantly, Meo’s plan doesn’t sound radically different from what telecoms are doing elsewhere. It seems philosophically similar to zero-rating, where carriers offer “free” data for apps like Netflix. Meo actually offers straightforward zero-rating for its own storage and entertainment apps, which provides them an even greater potential advantage.
Zero-rating and subscription packages both theoretically encourage mobile subscribers to favor established apps and services over up-and-coming competitors. In fact, you could argue that zero-rating and similar “sponsored data” plans are more insidious, because subscriptions at least make users consider whether they want to pay more for a better experience on certain apps. With zero-rating, they can just slip into using whichever default services offer unlimited data.
And you don’t have to look at Portugal, or a Trumpian future, to see zero-rating in action. General EU regulations call to examine cases on an individual basis, rather than banning the practice altogether, and so do the United States’ current (strong) net neutrality rules. AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile all offer it in some fashion right now — including T-Mobile’s Binge On, which isn’t that far from a free version of Meo’s video channel.
I’m not saying that these app packages sound good. Besides the competition problems I outlined above, they open the door for carriers to limit generic data pools, pressuring subscribers to buy extra subscriptions. But I haven’t seen a convincing argument that they’re a unique consequence of Portugal flouting EU net neutrality rules, nor something that seems unfathomable under the existing American system. Journalist Julian Sanchez argued that a US carrier could legally use Meo’s entire model right now. The biggest roadblock to US carriers adopting them is probably more public opinion than the FCC.
If there’s a lesson here, it’s that net neutrality isn’t just about writing rules, but about making sure that agencies will meaningfully enforce the spirit of them. The FCC, for example, determined in January that AT&T and Verizon’s zero-rating plans did violate net neutrality rules, though T-Mobile’s didn’t. But the report came out less than two weeks before former chairman Tom Wheeler stepped down, and Pai’s FCC has been predictably uninterested in following up with consequences.
Splashy headlines about Portugal’s supposed net-neutrality-free hellscape turn a complex debate over an imperfect policy to a good-versus-evil battle over flipping a single legal switch. The Trump administration has made it tough to have nuanced conversations, and so has Pai, whose proposed “light touch” rules are generally awful and paradoxically restrictive. But it’s better to try than to get lost in alarmist half-truths.


Drone maker DJI has released a new version of its DJI Goggles for drone racers. They’re called the DJI Goggles RE, short for racing edition. The original DJI Goggles went up for presale this past April and, like those, the DJI Goggles RE look a bit like a VR headset and let you control a drone with just your head movements and see from the device’s point of view, so long as the goggles are in head-tracking gimbal mode. While the original goggles are white, these come in matte black with red leather on the headband.
These new goggles are also compatible with non-DJI branded drones and third-party flight controllers like the F3 and Naze. The DJI Goggles RE support Sphere panoramic viewing and video streaming with the OcuSync Video Transmission Module, which has 12 transmission channels designed to reduce interference during a race, when multiple drones are likely flying by one another.
To that end, there’s an automatic frequency-hopping spread spectrum transmission, which jumps to the 2.4 and 5.8 GHz channels, depending on which has the least noise. The transmission module can reach latencies as low as 50ms. The transmission resolution is decent at 1280 x 960 and it has a maximum control range of 4.3 miles.
You’ll also have the option of connecting two pairs of the goggles together so another person could watch and control a drone alongside you. DJI’s new model starts shipping at the end of this month for $549, just missing Black Friday weekend. But there does happen to be a bundle with the OcuSync Air System and DJI Goggles Backpack that goes for $859.



Superheroes are a huge part of the 21st century pop culture landscape, but the characters spotlighted in TV and film generally weren’t actually created in the 21st century. Virtually every major DC and Marvel superhero project has been built around characters or teams created before the new millennium. They’re mostly older, well-known properties, which encourages showrunners and filmmakers to stick to old formulas and familiar character points. The resulting products can look fairly homogenized. Netflix’s Marvel series and The CW’s DC lineup have their individual charms, but they don’t deviate much in tone or structure.
But the exceptions have been memorable. When Jessica Jones debuted in the pages of Marvel Comics’ Alias in 2001, she wasn’t much of a hero at all. While she had superpowers, she’d given up a costumed life to be a hard-drinking, self-destructive private investigator. The superhero-tinged crime noir of her comic didn’t need many changes to translate into aTV show, and her distance from the usual superhero conventions makes Jessica Jones a standout of Netflix and Marvel’s partnership. With Hulu’s Runaways, another property created after 2000, Marvel Television makes a similarly smooth transition to the screen. The comic’s guiding principles are at play in the TV adaptation by The O.C. and Gossip Girl’s Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage.
The Runaways never reached Avengers or X-Men status in the comics. They aren’t a big-name superhero team, but they have developed a passionate fanbase. Many of those fans came from digest-sized collections, which made the comic easily available in bookstores and libraries. It helped that the series downplayed superhero elements in favor of YA storytelling. Creator Brian K. Vaughan set the comic in a superhero universe, but made his characters feel like ordinary people. They had no preexisting connections to other Marvel heroes, and they were physically distanced from the main action of the Marvel Universe by living in Los Angeles.
Runaways is the most autonomous project in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The first four chapters of the 13-episode first season don’t reference events in the Marvel movies, and unlike Netflix’s Marvel shows (Daredevil, The Punisher, The Defenders, and so forth), it’s not part of a larger project that’s planned around eventually forcing these characters into a crossover miniseries. This autonomy is the most important aspect of Runaways’ first story arc, which became the foundation of the TV series. In a superhero comic industry that prioritizes established IP over original concepts, Vaughan and artist Adrian Alphona created a brand new group of characters in their own corner of the Marvel Universe.
In the tradition of Marvel icons like Spider-Man and the X-Men, Runaways uses the superhero genre to explore the trials and thrills of adolescence. It puts a fantasy spin on a common teenage feeling: teenagers generally think their parents are awful, but what if they’re actually evil? The concept’s simplicity is part of its brilliance. In the pilot, a group of teenagers runs away after seeing their parents murder a young woman in a mysterious ceremony. As the kids investigate, they discover extraordinary abilities and acquire cool gadgets, mystical objects, and a pet dinosaur with a nose ring.
Vaughan made the jump to television (writing for Lost, executive producing the Stephen King adaptation Under The Dome) after building a strong reputation in comics, and his understanding of both comics and television make him a valuable resource for Hulu’s Runaways. Credited as an executive consultant, Vaughan worked directly with the show’s creators, helping them make decisions that enrich his original story without compromising its vision or spirit. The show makes some necessary changes so it can sustain a series, primarily by giving the parents much more time in the spotlight. By fleshing out the individual family dynamics, the series deepens the central conflict.
Runaways was originally in development as a film that would have been an earlier entry in the MCU. Developing this superhero world over the course of years let Marvel Studios and Marvel Television give the Runaways TV show a deeper connection to other properties, not through explicit story ties, but through genre influences. Narratively, Runaways stands apart from other Marvel films and series, but it still benefits from the framework established by those projects.
The Guardians Of The Galaxy films expanded the MCU’s cosmic landscape, opening the door for Runaways’ alien characters. The crime elements of Marvel’s Netflix shows make their way into the narrative courtesy of Geoffrey Wilder (Ryan Sands), a former gangster turned real-estate mogul. The experimental medicine and technology responsible for characters like Captain America, Hulk, and Iron Man are intrinsic to genius inventor Victor Stein (James Marsters) and geneticists Dale and Stacey Yorkes (Kevin Weisman and Brigid Brannagh), who have a dinosaur hidden in their house. Doctor Strange introduced the magical side of the MCU, and while Runaways is forced to present sorcery as advanced science because of Marvel Television’s “no magic” rule, the existence of genuine magic in the MCU informs scenes like Nico (Lyrica Okano) trying to commune with her dead sister’s spirit.
Marvel Comics stories tend to be set around New York City, and setting Runaways in Los Angeles gave the comic a breezier vibe. The show goes even further into the L.A. environment, making one of the parents the head of a Scientology-like church that preaches a message of light and self-love, but also kills teenagers it pulls off the streets. The setting also gives Runaways’ costume and set design a chance to depart from the Marvel norm. Runaways’ characters didn’t wear superhero costumes in the comic; they had wardrobes tailored to their personalities, and their clothes changed over time. The specificity of Alphona’s fashion design gives the TV show’s costume designers, Meredith Markworth-Pollack and Samantha Rattner, a strong foundation for the characters’ on-screen looks.
That unconventional approach to character design visually distinguished Runaways from other superhero comics. The teenagers’ styles from the comic’s initial 2003 run might feel dated now, so the designers pulled inspiration from more teen archetypes, like having the goth Nico (Lyrica Okano) lean into a Lorde-witch aesthetic rather than her Gothic Lolita fashion from the comics. Gertrude (Ariela Barer) wears a jacket emblazoned with “DO NOT DISTURB ME” on the back,accentuating her antagonistic attitude. And putting a pussy hat on her adopted sister, Molly (Allegra Acosta), is a clever way of reinterpreting her cute animal hats from the comics, while connecting her to Gertrude’s feminist point of view.
Brett Morgen is a surprising choice of director for the Runaways pilot, given that his film and TV experience has been exclusively documentaries (The Kids Stay In The Picture, Kurt Cobain: Montage Of Heck, this year’s Jane), but his involvement shows how dedicated the series is to the comics’ grounded point of view. Morgen’s documentarian eye for detail is especially valuable for creating a strong sense of place for the teenagers’ homes —especially their individual bedrooms. Nico’s room is decorated with black furniture, sketches of monsters, and creepy figurines. Church girl Karolina (Virginia Gardener) is surrounded by pink and elegant, clean decor, situating her as a paragon of princess-like femininity. Morgen sets the visual template with the pilot, and future directors follow his lead by providing multiple establishing shots of each location and framing shots to spotlight various environmental details, working with the design team to make these spaces distinct and reflective of the people who live in them.
These individual rooms also help establish the characters’ privileged lifestyle, which turns out to be built on murder and lies. Isolated on the West Coast, these kids don’t have any superheroes to rescue them from their supervillain parents. The Runaways formula requires this isolation, allowing the characters to establish themselves as unique inhabitants of an underexplored area of this superhero universe. It’s why this show is such a refreshing take on the genre. The key to unlocking the deeper potential of superhero media lies in finding new perspectives on the genre, now that other properties have laid the groundwork. The themes of superhero stories can be applied to more than standard costumed showdowns for the fate of the world. And Runaways’ success at trying something new — both in the comics, and on the screen — suggests studios can draw a lot of new energy from current creations, instead of sticking to legacy characters that have been around for decades.


After a Verge story detailed glaring examples of predatory comments on videos of children, YouTube announced today that it will turn off comments entirely on videos where it detects predatory behavior.
Last week, The Verge reported on the scope of the problem: videos of young children doing activities like gymnastics were being targeted by commenters making sexual comments, or inviting the children to talk. At the time, YouTube removed several of the videos provided by The Verge, some of which had hundreds of thousands or more views.
The company said in its statement today that, although those comments have never been permissible, it was taking new steps to make sure they don’t appear on its platform. “Comments of this nature are abhorrent and we work with NCMEC to report illegal behavior to law enforcement,” the company wrote in a blog post. “Starting this week we will begin taking an even more aggressive stance by turning off all comments on videos of minors where we see these types of comments.”
YouTube also announced several other changes it was making in response to recent criticism over how kids create and view content. The company said it was using technology to flag problematic videos more quickly, and would remove ads from “inappropriate” videos targeting families. YouTube said it will also provide new guidelines on its YouTube Kids content and will engage more experts for help.
YouTube has faced difficult questions about content targeted toward children in recent weeks, largely after a viral Medium post exposed bizarre videos targeting child viewers. “These latest enforcement changes will take shape over the weeks and months ahead as we work to tackle this evolving challenge,” the company said.





Thanksgiving is upon us, and for a lot of people, that means that we have an extended break from work to enjoy family and friends. It’s also a great time to finally get around to one of those shows that you’ve been meaning to binge-watch. There’s a glut of really fantastic shows out there. Here are our recommendations for something to stream while you’re sitting on the couch in a turkey-induced stupor.
Frank Castle, aka The Punisher, is out for revenge after the events of Daredevil. From the start of the season, Castle is a recluse, carrying massive emotional baggage from his time in Afghanistan. Drawn out of his shell by a string of compelling characters played by Amber Rose Revah, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, and others, Castle gradually grows more likable to the audience just as the story picks up speed, diving into police conspiracy and shootouts. It’s a violent and explicit series about US veterans and enraged single white men released at a time when America has been wracked by mass shootings in Las Vegas and Texas, meaning that it’s rife with material to discuss after the credits roll. —Shannon Liao
Best seen with: It’s a two-fer: you can watch it with your fellow Destiny 2 guardians and enjoy the gore, or discuss the underlying issues with your more politically minded family members.
Shows about serial killers are nothing new, but this series pulls off a neat trick by focusing on the people that figured out how to hunt them down in the first place. Based on John E. Douglas and Mark Olshaker’s book Mindhunter: Inside the FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit, the show follows a pair of mismatched FBI agents (Jonathan Groff and Holt McCallany) and a psychology professor (Anna Torv) who begin interviewing serial killers in the 1970s in order to understand why they do the things that they do. With David Fincher executive producing (and directing the pilot), Mindhunter is filled with the kind of unrelenting tension the filmmaker excels at, and infamous serial killers like Richard Speck and Edmund Kemper even pop up as characters. Be sure to stay for the final scene of the season, which plays like a lead-in to the most insidious expanded universe in the history of entertainment. —Bryan Bishop
Best seen with: Ask your friends and family if they liked Seven, Zodiac, True Detective, or The Silence of the Lambs. If they say yes, you’re good to go.
Channel Zero is an anthology series with self-contained seasons that are based on "creepypasta," the internet's equivalent of spooky campfire tales. It made a decent debut in 2016, but really hit its stride with this fall's six-episode "No-End House," where four young adults enter a haunted house and come out in a mirror world that preys on their dreams and fears. Beyond some effective grotesquerie and familiar horror tropes, you’ll get a compelling story about protagonist Margot (The Path's Amy Forsyth), who finds a way to reconnect with her dead father (American Horror Story's John Carroll Lynch) through the house. At its best, it's a surprisingly complex tragedy about the bonds of family and friendship... just a deeply, deeply creepy one. —Adi Robertson
Best seen with: Anyone interested in a more focused and less edgy version of American Horror Story, or a longer and more character-driven take on The Twilight Zone.
The third entry in Syfy’s Stargate franchise, Universe is a much darker, more somber show than its predecessors Stargate SG-1 and Stargate: Atlantis. In it, a space expedition is unexpectedly stranded billions of miles from home on an ancient starship called Destiny. The show is less episodic, and more story-driven than the shows that preceded it, focusing on the more gritty, realistic characters as they work to survive as they try and find their way home. —Andrew Liptak
Best seen with: Anyone who’s enjoyed the latest season of Star Trek: Discovery, Battlestar Galactica, or The Expanse.
With Thor: Ragnarok in theaters, millions of mainstream moviegoers who have never heard of writer-director Taika Waititi are becoming familiar with his improv comedy style. This is a great time to catch up on his past projects, which lack the superhero throwdowns and ’splosions, but have the same sort of goofy, amiable, self-effacing humor. The funniest of the pack is Hunt for the Wilderpeople, a wild family adventure about a teenager and his adoptive uncle taking off into the wilds. That one’s rentable on a variety of streaming services. Netflix has Eagle vs. Shark, Waititi’s ridiculously dry rom-com starring his longtime comedy partner Jemaine Clement. And Amazon Prime has his improvised dark vampire comedy What We Do In the Shadows and his funny family drama Boy, about an 11-year-old meeting his absentee criminal father.
Best seen with: Family members with a sense of humor, though you might want to fine-tune that — Hunt for the Wilderpeople is all-ages family fun, while What We Do In The Shadows is more for you and the cool younger cousins who like gross-out humor. —Tasha Robinson
This suspense-driven TV mini-series on Amazon will give you a taste of international intrigue while you cuddle up with blankets in your home. Tom Hiddleston plays the night manager at a hotel in Cairo who anticipates the needs of his guests, but not the secret documents that draw him into a web of espionage. As a British soldier turned luxury hotel employee, Hiddleston possesses all the charm of Loki, who he plays in the Thor franchise, but less of the mischief. In six too-short episodes, this spy drama enlightens and entertains. —Shannon Liao
Best seen with: Adults who will appreciate the jet-setting and spy thrills.
Created by Eugene Levy (Best in Show, Waiting for Guffman) and his son Dan, Schitt's Creek is about a wealthy family of four who find themselves living in a crappy motel in a nowhere town when all their belongings are unexpectedly repossessed by the IRS. This half-hour series, which also airs on Canadian TV, feels like a secret that I want to tell everyone about: it's deeply funny, strange, and just heartwarming enough to keep your head in the game during the holidays. The characters, including an overwrought Catherine O'Hara, manage to be annoying and likable at the same time — maybe like your own family? —Lizzie Plaugic
Watch it with: Your siblings, who will roll their eyes at first, and then get angry if you binge it without them.
It doesn't matter if you don't know what choux pastry or proofing is, watching The Great British Baking Show feels like wrapping your entire body in a warm loaf of freshly baked something or other. At least, it does until the end of each episode when someone gets eliminated and you're suddenly crying for reasons you can't quite explain. Another reason to cry: last year, three of the hosts quit after it was announced that the show would leave the BBC for the UK's Channel 4. The newest iteration of the series premiered this September to mixed reviews, but four seasons of the BBC version are on Netflix right now. That should last you to the pie course, at least. —Lizzie Plaugic
Watch with: Your cousin who says her pumpkin pie is better than yours.
On a surface level, Halt and Catch Fire is about the rise of computers in the late ‘80s, and the lives of a few fictionalized people who built them. The show’s main trio — a slick salesman, a downtrodden engineer, and a quirky but brilliant programmer — initially read like stock characters in a college play. But their struggles to understand one another, and their individual failures as humans, soon make this drama a compelling, relatable watch. The show just wrapped its fourth and final season in October, but the first three seasons are streaming now on Netflix. —Megan Farokhmanesh
Watch with: Your family members who have nostalgia for the days of modems, and / or constantly ask you for tech support.
Long before Baby Driver, Hot Fuzz, J.J. Abrams’ Star Trek, or even Shaun of the Dead, actor Simon Pegg and director Edgar Wright worked together on a UK sitcom called Spaced. The premise sounds pretty well-worn by now: Pegg plays an aspiring comic artist who is so desperate for a new apartment that he pretends to be in a relationship with a total stranger (Jessica Stevenson) so the pair can land a new place as flatmates. Hijinks and romance ensue, along with an avalanche of pop culture references. Pegg and Stevenson created the show together, with Wright directing both seasons, and it’s combination of whimsy and effervescent filmmaking still make it a joy to watch, even if it does feels slightly dated at times. —Bryan Bishop
Watch with: Fans of the Three Flavours Cornetto trilogy and anyone who pines for the days before fan culture had been weaponized to fill every moment of our waking lives.



Apple’s Thanksgiving ad this year teaches us that if we all wear AirPods, we can transport ourselves into a Stranger Things-esque world — minus the monsters and the grime — filled with ballet and sexy lighting. Then, by pirouetting through the streets and picking lint off strangers’ jackets, we, too, can find love. (That is, until the Sam Smith song ends.)
The music video ad is a weird, almost literal interpretation of Sam Smith’s “Palace,” except instead of the woman’s head being filled with ruins, it’s filled with romantic spotlights and plenty of wild gymnastics.
While it doesn’t encourage me to give Apple $159 for a pair of electric toothbrush head-like ear accessories I would definitely lose in the snow if I were to attempt to dance like that, the video might make others fall under the spell of the spending-crazed holiday magic:


When I was in university, my trusty Nintendo DS went everywhere I did. I kept it stashed in my bag at all times, and whenever I needed a break I’d jump into Animal Crossing: Wild World to relax. The life simulation game, where players build a virtual life in a bucolic town full of animal friends, had a sense of aimlessness that made it the perfect distraction. If I had a few minutes in between classes, I could plant some fruit trees, catch a few fish, or chat with my neighbors. It’s a lot like the way I play mobile games today, making steady, incremental progress whenever I’m free. This week’s release of Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp on iOS and Android confirms that the series is a great fit for mobile. It makes some compromises, but delivers the core of what I want from Animal Crossing: a nice, slow way to unwind.
Previous Animal Crossing games were wonderfully open-ended, dropping your human avatar in a town full of animals and letting you wander. You could make friends, pay off your mortgage, become an avid bug collector, or none of the above. The focus on simply living a virtual life without high-pressure goals was a large part of the appeal.
In Pocket Camp, you’re still a human surrounded by talking animals, but this time your home base is campground rather than a house. As in other Animal Crossing games, you can decorate your living space, chat with animals, and give gifts to improve your friendships. The real-time clock also makes the leap to mobile, where some events only happen at certain times or on certain days, and when you pick some fruit from a tree you’ll need to wait a specified number of hours for more to grow back. It’s what makes these games such a satisfying habit, something you play for a few minutes each day, rather than gorging on it all at once. The real-time structure fits mobile really well, since the game is on a device you always have with you. I’ve found myself doing a bit of fishing before bed, and letting the chill nighttime music lull me to sleep.
There are some changes and compromises that come with the new format, however, and Pocket Camp feels a bit more like a typical video game because of them. The most obvious example is the constant barrage of goals. In order to progress and unlock new content, you’ll need to complete a never-ending list of arbitrary milestones, like catching 50 fish or making five new friends. It’s something you can ignore, of course, but then you’d miss out on a lot of the experience. You earn both money and experience from completing goals, which in turn unlocks new content like decorations for your campsite, or more animal friends to meet.
This more focused approach is baked right into the structure of the world. Instead of one large open space you can explore, Pocket Camp is divided into a series of smaller areas, each with a specific function. If you want to catch some bugs, there’s an island just for that, while you can go fishing either at the beach or a local stream. There’s even an area specifically for picking fruit. It makes sense that the game would be smaller in scale on mobile, but what this structure really does is take away a lot of the sense of discovery and aimlessness.
In past Animal Crossing games, you could amble across your town and stumble on a weird new bug, or luck upon some coconuts washed up on the beach. That doesn’t happen in Pocket Camp: any time you go somewhere, you do so with a predetermined goal in mind. Keen series fans will also notice that a number of iconic features, like gardening or digging for fossils, aren’t present in the new game.
All that said, Pocket Camp still does a remarkable job of emulating the soothing pace that makes Animal Crossing so appealing. Even with the spectre of goals and progress looming, the actual act of playing is still very relaxing. Catching bugs and fish is a lot of fun, and I’ve spent a lot of time fussing about with my campsite, setting it up just right. And the in-game chatter remains as charming as ever. It’s hard not to smile when talking to a cute yellow elephant who makes great soup, or a purple cat who won’t stop calling you silly.
Animal Crossing’s distinct structure also makes some of the more frustrating elements common to free-to-play mobile games much less annoying. Waiting for fruit to grow, for instance, doesn’t feel like a burden because, well, that’s how the game has always worked. You have the option to speed things up by using fertilizer, which can be bought with a premium in-game currency, but I haven’t felt the need to. The same goes for the new crafting feature. Here you can build your own furniture (though there’s still a market to shop at) using materials gathered from completing goals and helping out friendly animals. Depending on what you’re building, it can take hours to finish, or you can speed up the process with cash. But as someone who has spent actual days waiting for my house to be remodeled in previous Animal Crossing games, this never bothered me. It feels like a natural part of the game, as opposed to something tacked on to get you to spend money.
There are a few additions that don’t work so well, though. Most notable is the new mining mechanic, where you can go to a section of the campground and dig up resources that can then be used for crafting. In order to do so, however, you’ll need to either spend premium currency or pester five friends for their help. It’s a callback to annoying Facebook games like FarmVille, and it’s the one place where it feels like the game is trying to squeeze cash out of you. Pocket Camp also adds some new social features, but they feel woefully underdeveloped. You can visit the campsites of your real-world friends, but there’s very little you can actually do with them, aside from check out their furniture and buy some of their freshly caught fish. The fact that you can’t send gifts or notes — a beloved feature in past Animal Crossing games — is a major omission.
Pocket Camp chops up the Animal Crossing formula and puts it back together in ways that don’t always work, but ultimately it doesn’t change the overall feel of the game. It’s still a leisurely experience, one where hanging out with friends or picking apples are vital daily activities. Pocket Camp changes things, and ultimately shrinks the experience, but it also keeps just enough of Animal Crossing’s essence to make it work. And the shift to mobile adds something important. Animal Crossing is a game best enjoyed as a daily habit, and there’s no better place for that than on your phone.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp is available now on iOS and Android.



Scientists have created a new robotic device that can keep a failing heart beating by gently squeezing half of it. The device has only been tested in pigs for now, but it holds the potential to one day save the lives of people with heart failure.
The robot is made of three parts: a rigid, half-moon frame that hugs one side of the heart, an “anchor” that goes inside the heart, and a soft, muscle-like band that twists and contracts, squeezing the heart to keep the blood flowing. The researchers successfully tested the device in pigs that were given different types of heart failure in the lab — allowing their hearts to keep pumping blood the way they were supposed to, according to a study published today in the journal Science Robotics.
Around the world, at least 26 million people suffer from heart failure. Many of these are children, who are born with congenital diseases that don’t allow their hearts to pump enough blood, says study co-author Nikolay Vasilyev, a researcher for Boston Children's Hospital and assistant professor of surgery at Harvard Medical School. Heart transplantation is the best option, but there’s a shortage of donor organs. As people await transplantation, their hearts are put on so-called ventricular assist devices, or VADs. These devices use artificial tubes to reroute blood from the heart to the vessels going in and out, but they can cause serious problems: blood can clot in the tubes, putting people at risk of stroke. To avoid that, patients with VADs are given blood thinners, but that can cause dangerous bleeding.
So researchers are looking for better options. Earlier this year, researchers at Harvard created a soft robot that functioned as a silicone “sleeve” around the heart, squeezing the organ so it could pump blood again. (That device was also tested in pigs.) The device described in today’s study, created by some of the same Harvard researchers, also squeezes the heart to restore blood flow, but with a different mechanism.
The latest device doesn’t target the whole heart, but only half of it. The human heart is divided into two lower chambers, called ventricles: the right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs, while the left one pumps blood to the rest of the body. When people have heart failure, sometimes it’s because only one of the two ventricles isn’t working. So the new device is meant to target only the malfunctioning ventricle, not both, like the soft robot described earlier this year.
To do this, the new device has a rigid “anchor” that braces the sturdy muscle wall separating the two ventricles. That way, when compressed air is pumped into the device to twist the elastic bands on one side of the heart, only one ventricle is squeezed to eject blood, leaving the healthy ventricle alone. The device — which is placed through a small cut — also syncs up its squeezing with the heart’s existing rhythm, so it can function autonomously. Unlike existing VADs, this device doesn’t reroute blood through artificial tubes, says Vasilyev. That means that patients could receive much less blood thinning medication, avoiding complications like bleeding and stroke. “It’s a completely different concept,” Vasilyev tells The Verge.
The device isn’t perfect: it’s connected through wires to an outside air pumping and control box that’s a little bigger than a DVD player. The researchers also tested the device only on pigs, for about an hour. Before it could actually be used in people, longer-term animal studies and clinical trials need to show it’s safe and effective. In the future, the air pumping box could be made more portable, Vasilyev says, so that people with the device could technically be discharged from hospitals. But that’s a long way away: Vasilyev hopes that the device will become available in a few years, allowing patients — especially children — waiting for heart transplants to survive longer and with fewer complications.
“I truly hope that our device will help those children,” Vasilyev says.


As the FCC moves ahead with its plan to dismantle net neutrality protections, pro-net neutrality groups say they’re planning protests at Verizon stores around the country on December 7th.
“We'll demand that our members of Congress take action to stop Verizon's puppet FCC from killing net neutrality,” the organizers write on a website dedicated to the protests.
The groups, which have organized protests like the digital “day of action,” say volunteer organizers are planning for the protests, which will be held in several cities. In some cases, protesters will march to lawmakers’ offices as well.
This week, the FCC announced its intention to vote on a rollback of net neutrality protections on December 14th. The changes, spearheaded by Chairman Ajit Pai, are likely to pass through the Republican-dominated Commission.
Verizon holds a dual significance as a target of protest. For one, the company has been a prominent critic of the current net neutrality rules, and stands to benefit if they’re dismantled. Pai was also at one time a lawyer for the company.
Verizon did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the protests.


Hey there. How you feeling? Ready to regret that fourth slice of pie tomorrow and then follow it up with some shopping on Monday? Same. I know we're all going to be working through lots of feelings these next few days, and Circuit Breaker Live is here to help you. We're back!
Paul Miller, Ashley Carman (that's me), and Chaim Gartenberg will be live on Twitter at 9AM ET for a special Cyber Monday edition of the gadget show. Click here to join. This episode won't have any wacky gadget demos, but it will have deals. Chaim is our resident Deal Expert, so he'll jump into the conversation with breaking deals while Paul and I help you sort out your purchase-related feelings. Feeling down that you're looking for new headphones because your old ones were your favorites? Or maybe you're conflicted because you love both Microsoft and Apple, but don't know how to make the decision between a MacBook or a Surface Book.
As we always say, we aren't tech support, so we can't give you buying advice, but we can help you grapple with your emotions. You can reach us through Twitter, either by tweeting directly at us at @futurepaul and @ashleyrcarman, or through the show's hashtag #CircuitBreakerLive. For only this show, we'll have a phone number you can call to talk to Paul and I directly. It's 1-844-4EMOTION (or 1-844-436-6846). Please call us and share your feelings with the world.


While Black Friday deals can help you buy up smart home appliances on the cheap, the opposite also exists for users looking for a taste of luxury. Smart home accessory maker Ring just revealed a limited edition video doorbell encrusted in jewels. The very poshly named Ring Elite Crown Jewel has 2,077 sapphires and 40 diamonds set into an 18-karat gold faceplate, all made by Bijan Jewelry.
The Elite Crown Jewel’s video doorbell components are based on Ring’s Video Doorbell Elite, a slim model with high-end features like HD video and infrared night vision. The Video Doorbell Elite usually goes for $499.99 at Best Buy and $450 at Amazon, but with the extra decorations, the Elite Crown Jewel’s price tag has been bumped up to $100,000.
There are only 10 units made of the Elite Crown Jewel and they’re being sold at the Selfridges on Oxford Street, which is a UK-based chain of department stores. Perhaps as a way of easing the consciences of any luxury buyers, Ring also announced that the proceeds are going to UK charities aimed at reducing crime.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.





Hunting for the tapeworms that infest shark and ray guts has made Kirsten Jensen and Janine Caira pros at dissecting on the fly. The two parasitologists have extracted fish entrails in parking lots, on moving boats, and on hotel room balconies. They have to act quickly, because tapeworms don’t survive for long in the bowels of a dead host. Wait too long and “the worms tend to rot because they’re delicate little creatures,” Caira says. “Tiny, delicate, beautiful little creatures.”
Tapeworms are bizarre parasites that latch onto the lining of animals’ guts — yeah, yours, too — and soak up the nutrients floating by. With no heads and no intestines of their own, these living noodles can stretch from a hundredth of an inch to 100 feet in length. For nearly a decade, Jensen at the University of Kansas and Caira at the University of Connecticut have spearheaded an international effort to inventory all of the tapeworms on Earth. Now, the team has reported on nearly 5,000 species of tapeworm in a massive paper published by the University of Kansas Museum of Natural History, including 215 species that are newly discovered.
The project began as part of a larger push by the National Science Foundation to survey the planet’s biodiversity — particularly for less-loved creatures. It’s important work, because tapeworms are the nightmare versions of canaries in the coal mine. These parasites travel up the food chain as they mature: in the ocean, for instance, tapeworm eggs are slurped up by tiny crustaceans, which then get eaten by bigger creatures, like fish. The tapeworm larvae develop in this new host until a larger animal, like a shark, eats it. And that’s how full-grown tapeworms end up in the guts of sharks. It’s the circle of life. So the presence of adult tapeworms in an ecosystem means that the food chain is healthy and intact (if gross).
That’s why scientists went looking for the parasites all over the world. Jensen and Caira were in charge of searching for the tapeworms infecting sharks and rays. (Other teams investigated the bowels of birds, mammals, reptiles, and bony fish.) They partnered with local scientists, visited fish markets, and followed fishing boats in 16 different countries, offering to clean fresh catches. That’s how the two scientists found themselves on the backs of scooters racing to a harbor in Vietnam to retrieve the guts of a freshly caught ray. With a baggie of entrails in hand, they skulked back to the hotel room. “You don’t exactly want the hotel to know that you're dissecting on your balcony,” Caira says.
During a break from tapeworm-hunting — there are probably 20,000 different species out there — the two scientists spoke with The Verge about their favorite tapeworms, and how to avoid getting infected.
This interview has been edited for brevity and clarity.
Kirsten Jensen: The tapeworms that my lab primarily studies have a thing on the apex of their scolex, [the front part of a tapeworm that latches on to the host’s intestines], which makes them look like they’re wearing hats. [That’s] a genus that we named Seussapex. We don't want to get into trouble for not having told Dr. Seuss that we did this, but it’s named after Dr. Seuss because it looks just like a Dr. Seuss character.
Janine Caira: It looks just like the Cat in the Hat's hat. One of the groups of tapeworms that my lab works on has hooks, so they look kind of vicious, but they're actually pretty awesome. It turns out that the hooks are made of several different kinds of protein — some of which may actually be unknown as of yet. The anterior part of the tapeworm, in that case, is divided into two separate regions that function sort of on their own, independent of one another. It pushes the boundary of how bizarre tapeworms are for me. But it also is a really cool-looking tapeworm.
KJ: From eating raw or undercooked fish or meat that contains a larval tapeworm. But as soon as it's cooked, any of that fish or meat would be safe to eat in terms of tapeworm infection. Humans cannot contract any of the tapeworms in sharks or stingrays, birds, or certain groups of mammals that are not closely related to us.
JC: We would appreciate if in your article, you could put in big capital letters: “TO AVOID CONTRACTING TAPEWORMS, COOK YOUR FOOD.”
JC: No. It's kind of a fallacy. In the case of that really long tapeworm that does infect humans, it has a super high affinity for vitamin B12, so sometimes it will cause anemia. But for the most part, tapeworms, if they’re in their natural host, they don’t do a lot of damage. Probably because we think the tapeworms for sharks and rays have been there for hundreds of millions years. They’re not helping the host, so it's not a mutualistic association, but they’re not doing a huge amount of damage to the host either.
KJ and JC: No!
JC: Bad idea, bad idea. In the end, it doesn't actually consume that much food. It’s kind of fallacious to think that tapeworms actually out-compete what’s happening in your gut. If anything, [some could] give you a vitamin B12 deficiency and erode the surface of your mucosa a bit. [For a pet,] pick something more like… a chinchilla.
KJ and JC: No.
JC: There is a fairly large nematode [a type of roundworm] that people can actually get as an infection. In this case, the individuals are separate sexes and the female has been known to wander around the body including coming out the nose while looking for a male. But, that's not a tapeworm.
KJ: I can’t not enjoy my sushi, I have to admit.
JC: I find it quite a challenge that I work with people who still eat raw fish.
KJ: I don’t know if I’m a risk taker. If you cut your fish thin enough, you might see it, given a trained eye…
JC: Or you could just cook your food and be fully confident you're not picking up a tapeworm infection! I'm just saying. I’m a big fan of cooked food, and yes, it's because I’m a parasitologist.



After the FCC began its assault on net neutrality earlier this year, several cities and states began looking into ways to protect consumers on their own. Unfortunately, the FCC has decided that it won’t allow that to happen: as part of its proposal to repeal net neutrality, the commission is trying to use its authority to preempt any and all state and local net neutrality regulations.
The commission intends to block any local laws or regulations that “effectively impose rules or requirements that we have repealed or decided to refrain from imposing in this order or that would impose more stringent requirements for any aspect of broadband service that we address in this order.”
So to sum up: states can’t pass anything covered in the 2015 net neutrality order, they can’t pass anything the FCC mentioned but didn’t pass in this new order, and they can’t pass anything that would at all make life more difficult for ISPs. That seems to include the stricter privacy rules that Congress voted to throw out earlier this year.
The FCC says it’s able to implement this ban because internet access is an interstate service, and it’s impractical to make ISPs treat interstate and intrastate traffic differently. Doing so, the commission writes, would apply “far greater burdens” and “pose an obstacle to or place an undue burden on” the delivery of broadband internet.
It’s very likely this provision will end up being challenged in court, especially since states and localities have already started passing measures to protect consumers’ data. If it holds up, it’ll then be up to Congress to pass stricter net neutrality rules.
The FCC will vote on its proposal to end net neutrality on December 14th.


Facebook plans to offer a portal where users can see if they engaged with pages linked to Russian propaganda efforts. The portal, which Facebook says will be released by the end of the year, will show users whether they liked or followed specific Facebook or Instagram accounts backed by the Kremlin-linked Internet Research Agency. It will track activity between January 2015 and August 2017, and be available through the Facebook Help Center.
The accounts in question were part of a broad effort to, in Facebook’s words, “sow division and mistrust” before and after the 2016 election. They ostensibly supported American political causes across the ideological spectrum, and appear to have gained some traction among actual Facebook users — at least one allegedly Russia-linked page successfully organized offline rallies. The Internet Research Agency also allegedly pushed thousands of divisive ads to 10 million people, often directing them to similarly themed pages. Facebook has since said that it’s taking more steps to prevent ads from any “inauthentic operation,” including vetting the groups behind them.
Facebook says that this portal “is part of our ongoing effort to protect our platforms and the people who use them from bad actors who try to undermine our democracy.” It’s also a way of signaling to Congress that it’s serious about transparency, after being accused of dragging its feet in the investigation over Russia-linked ads. But the tool’s capabilities are limited. It apparently won’t say whether you saw or shared posts from the accounts — only whether you engaged with them directly.


Roku’s new Streaming Stick Plus may have only come out a few weeks ago, but the company is already putting it on sale for Black Friday for $20 off, dropping the price from $69.99 down to $49.99 for a limited time.
The Streaming Stick Plus supports 4K, HDR, and Roku’s entire catalog of app channels, although, as we noted in our review, content offerings for 4K and HDR are a bit slim right now. Still, if you’re looking to future-proof your set-top box options, it’s a pretty significant discount on such a new product.
The deal goes live on November 23rd at 12:01AM ET and runs through November 28th at 2:59AM ET while supplies last at various retailers and Roku.com.


It’s difficult to fathom why anyone in the Jurassic Park universe would still think screwing with dinosaurs with a good idea. They get a pass for the first movie, where they arguably didn’t know that the magnificent dinos were going to eat everyone around them. But after The Lost World, where a T. rex wreaked havoc on San Diego, Jurassic Park 3, where I presume dinosaurs killed more people, and Jurassic World, which was filled with glorious scenes of park guests being terrorized and eaten, you’d think people might have learned their lesson. The new teaser for Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom, however, confirms that people’s love of dinosaurs is still somehow greater than their fear of being digested.
We know very little about Fallen Kingdom, which is slated for release next summer, aside from how clearly excited its creators are to have Jeff Goldblum reprise his role as Dr. Ian Malcolm. Based on today’s teaser, where Owen (Chris Pratt) gives a good chin scratch to a tinysaurus, we can conclude that despite the four previous films where playing with dinosaurs led to death and horror, the film’s characters still haven’t learned that it’s a bad idea to treat dinosaurs like a scaly house cat.
From our Jurassic family to yours. @FilmBayona @PrattPrattPratt @BryceDHoward @LeDoctor #FALLENKINGDOM pic.twitter.com/KiR3et9Vx1
So why won’t people in the Jurassic Park films stop making dinosaur death parks, aside from the fact that it’s the premise of the series? One word: money. Once you have the power to create a long-extinct creature and earn a buck off it, common sense sounds pretty dull. Jurassic World took this to a hilarious new level, insisting that the park’s developers needed to create hybrid dinosaur monsters to boost flagging attendance at the park, a dubious premise at best. Investors are not impressed with the murdersaurus they have currently. They need a new one. Can it have a chainsaw for a mouth?
It’s hard to imagine a scenario where a tropical park full of living dinosaurs wouldn’t be spectacularly attractive to rich people everywhere. As this perfect Reddit comment points out, “Fucking Disneyland manages to stay profitable and they don't have a monopoly on ACTUAL LIVE MOTHER FUCKING DINOSAURS!”



Building your studio is expensive! Luckily, that’s what Black Friday is for. Now is the time to splurge on some plugins, sample packs, or even the synths and microphones you’ve been eyeing but couldn’t bring yourself to buy. From Moog to Pro Tools to Subpac, there are tons of deals available for musicians and producers. Here are some of the top picks, with more to come.
If you buy one Black Friday deal this year, this should probably be it. Waves’ Diamond Bundle, the company’s top-of-the-line suite with 65 audio mixing and mastering plugins, from dynamics to pitch correction, is going for an astounding 90 percent off. It’s currently priced at $299 (normally $2,999). If you don’t want to bundle and instead want to pick and choose individual plugins, there’s lots of Waves discounts to be had all around.
FL Studio: Save up to $350 on select Razer Blade laptops, and get a free copy of FL Studio Producer Edition (with lifetime free updates). The DAW is normally $199. The deal runs until the 30th of November and is valid in the US, Canada, EU (English), the UK, Germany, France, Australia, Singapore, and Hong Kong.
PreSonus: Until November 27th, PreSonus’ DAW Studio One and its notation software, Notion 6, are 50 percent off. That means you can nab Studio One 3 Artist for $49.50 (normally $99), Studio One 3 Professional for $199.50 (normally $399), and all crossgrades and upgrades at the same 50 percent discount. During the sale, Notion 6 is $74.97 (normally $149.95), and all crossgrades and upgrades have the same 50 percent discount.
Ableton Live: Ableton Live recently announced the newest version of its DAW, Live 10, coming early 2018. In the meantime, purchase the current version, Live 9, with a 20 percent discount, and get a free upgrade to Live 10 when it comes out. During the sale, Live 9 Intro is $79 (normally $99), Standard is $359 (normally $449), and Suite is $599 (normally $749).
Propellerhead: Reason 10 is currently $100 off, making the digital download of the DAW only $299.
Bitwig: New customers can save $100 on Bitwig Studio 2 during the company’s winter sale. Grab it now from Bitwig’s webshop for $299.
iZotope: iZotope is offering discounts on both bundles and individual products. The Mix & Master Bundle, for example, which includes Ozone 8 Standard and Neutron 2 Standard is $199 for any Standard product owner (regularly $398). Individually, products like mastering tool Ozone Elements is $29 (regularly $129) and audio repair tool RX Elements is $29 (regularly $129).
Lennar Digital: Until November 27th, get Sylenth1 for 25 percent off. Enter the coupon code BLFR2017 during the order process. The discount does not apply to monthly payment plans, but can be used for paying off a remaining balance.
Beatport: Until Monday, dance music retailer Beatport is offering up to 50 percent off your cart with a mystery sale. The discount changes hourly, so enter CYBERSALE at checkout to discover your savings.
Loopmasters: Get up to 70 percent off sample packs from Big Fish Audio, Prime Loops, ModeAudio, Freaky Loops, and more.
Serato: Get 50 percent off on the full Serato DJ Suite, which includes Serato DJ, Serato Video, Serato DVS, Serato FX Pack, Serato Flip, and Serato Pitch ‘n Time DJ. Serato’s Control Vinyl is also 50 percent off, minus the standard black version, so if you’ve been eyeing one of the ?uestlove 7-inch vinyls or a pop of color with a pair of yellow or purple marbled 12-inch vinyls, now’s the time to splurge.
Universal Audio: Universal Audio is currently doing 12 Days of UAD, where it reveals deals every day until December 1st. The company has knocked 50 percent off several bundles and plugins: the SSL 4000 E Channel Strip collection is $149 (regularly $299) and Little Labs’ Voice Of God Bass Resonance is $75 (regularly $149.99). Check the site daily for additional sales.
Reveal Sound: Get coveted Spire synth with a massive sound bundle for $259 (regularly $375).
Splice: Get two free months of Splice Sounds (a cloud-based sample and preset library with over 1 million sounds) with code 2FREE (normally $7.99 a month). New customers only.
Fender Play: Until December 31st, receive 50 percent off Fender Play (a video-based platform for learning to play guitar) for your entire subscription duration (normally $19.99 per month). Offer for new subscribers only.
Steinberg: Until November 27th, save 40 percent on Steinberg’s Absolute 3 VST Instrument Collection, which includes The Grand 3 for piano sounds, Padshop Pro for granular sound design, Retrologue 2 for vintage analog synth sounds, and more. Enter coupon code ABSOLUTE2017 at checkout.
Plugin Boutique: There are tons of plugins on sale here with deep discounts. Vocal editing tool Celemony Melodyne Essential is $49 (normally $99), and Sugar Bytes synth Cyclop is $49 (normally $99). Poke around the site for more great deals on VSTs and AUs.
Native Instruments: Native Instruments is knocking up to 50 percent off over 180 instruments, effects, and more, including Massive and Kontakt 5. Hardware alert: if you’ve been eyeing the new Maschine MK3, this could be a good time to scoop one up. The company is bundling it with Komplete 11, a suite of instruments, products, and sounds, for $798.50 (normally $1,198).
Sol Republic: Sol Republic is offering 30 percent off any product over $29.99, and is throwing in free shipping. That means you can grab the Tracks HD2 for $59.99 (normally $99.99). The deal will end at 11:59PM ET on November 27th and is only good for US customers.
Sweetwater: Retailer Sweetwater has a lot of Black Friday deals going on, like 20 percent off their regular price for Avid Pro Tools 12 software with an upgrade plan. Sweetwater is offering the DAW’s monthly subscription at $10 a month for 48 months. By comparison, if you purchase the monthly subscription directly on the Avid website, it’s $24.92 a month. They’re also currently offering a chunk off custom Westone AC10 in-ear monitors at $239.99 (regularly $299.99). If you’re looking for speakers, the company just bought up a bunch of Focal CMS 65 6.5-inch Powered Studio Monitors. Normally $795 each, Sweetwater is offering the remaining stock at $495 per unit.
Guitar Center: Guitar Center has a 25 percent off code (SAVE25) that is applied to quite a few items. The code makes the Alesis VX49 keyboard controller $299.25 (regularly $399), the KRK Rokit 5 G3 studio monitor $112.49 (regularly $149.99), and the Road Runner ATA DJ Case $288.74 (regularly $384.99). There’s tons more available on Guitar Center’s website, so go have a browse.
ACS: These custom, in-ear monitors that also offer hearing protection are currently on sale from 10 to 35 percent off. For example, get the PRO17 hearing protection buds for $120.25 (regularly $185), and the Evoke Custom in-ear monitors for $276.25 (regularly $425).
AKG: The brand is offering 50 percent off headphones, including the over ear Y50 model. On top of that, enter code FREE2DAY to get free two day shipping on any order over $19.99.
Pioneer DJ: Until November 27th, cop a pair of DM-40 speakers in white or black for $99 (regularly $149). The company is also currently offering a couple of mail-in rebates. If you purchase a DJM-900NXS2 4-channel professional DJ mixer from an authorized Pioneer DJ dealer through December 31st, you can claim a free pair of HDJ-2000MK2 DJ headphones (priced at $249.99). Also, if you purchase a TORAIZ AS-1 monophonic analog synth from an authorized Pioneer DJ dealer through December 31st, you can claim a free pair of HRM-5 studio headphones (priced at $99). All claims must be postmarked by January 31st, 2018, and the offer is only valid in the US and Canada.
V-Moda: V-Moda is offering a steep discount on its popular Crossfade Wireless headphones. Normally $300, you can grab them now for $180. That’s 40 percent knocked off the usual price.
DJ TechTools: All versions of the Midi Fighter — the Twister, 3D, and 64 — are 20 percent off. Its backpack, made specifically to carry DJ controllers and bring as a flight carry-on, is also on sale for $119 (regularly $149.99). Lastly, the company’s Chroma USB cables are 50 percent off, making them a 2-for-1 deal.
Shure: Shure is offering discounts on a bunch of products through the end of the year. Some headphone deals include the SRH550DJ for $79 (regularly $99), the SRH750DJ for $99 (regularly $149), and the SRH1840 open backs for $399 (regularly $499). Microphones are also on sale. Vocal microphone SM58 is $89 (regularly $99), large diaphragm condenser mic MV51 is $149 (regularly $199), and drum mic kit DMK57-52 is $369 (regularly $399). There’s a whole bunch more scattered around the Shure website and all deals are good until December 31st.
Subpac: Wearable bass system Subpac is offering a Subpac S2 for $199 with a free BackPac. The Subpac S2 is normally $299 and the BackPac is $79 so that’s nearly $200 in savings. It’s only for the first 100 customers, so if you’ve been thinking about getting one of these for your studio, now is definitely the time.
ROLI: ROLI is offering $200 cash back on the Seaboard RISE 49 (priced at $1,099.95) and $100 cash back on the RISE 25 (priced at $849.95). Along with the cash back, your purchase will also come with acoustic drum studio software FXpansion’s BFD3 for free (worth $350). The Lightpad Block also has a cash back deal of $50 (priced at $179.95) bundled with a free Snapcase Solo protective case (worth $39.95). Deals run through November 28th.
Moog: Moog is offering up to 30 percent off the following Moog instruments: Minimoog Model D, Minimoog Voyager XL, Sub Phatty, Minitaur, Mother-32, Werkstatt-01, Etherwave Theremins, Theremini, Moogerfoogers, and Minifoogers. Find an authorized Moog retailer to inquire about discounts and availability.
PSSL: Many of PSSL’s Black Friday deals are for pro lighting and trussing, but one product in particular is worth noting: it’s offering the MXL Revelation Solo Tube Condenser Microphone for only $299.99. Normally $999.95, the cardiod mic features a EF86 pentode tube, 32mm 6 micron gold sputtered capsule, and a full complement of Mogami cables.


Apple’s ambitions to build a self-driving car have reportedly shifted gears over the years, but we know the company is focusing on the software side of the equation. This June, CEO Tim Cook said the iPhone maker is building autonomous systems that could power a range of different vehicles (rather than, say, working on its own Apple-branded SUVs). “We sort of see it as the mother of all AI projects,” said Cook.
Now, new research from the company’s machine learning team confirms this direction, with a paper published on pre-print server arXiv describing a mapping system that could be put to a range of uses, including powering “autonomous navigation, housekeeping robots, and augmented / virtual reality.” Though, to be clear, this is just academic research: it doesn’t indicate that Apple is working on these particular use-cases.
The system in question is called VoxelNet, and it’s all about improving the data we get from the eyes of most self-driving systems: LIDAR sensors. These components are integral to lots of autonomous vehicles, and work by bouncing lasers off nearby objects to build a 3D model of their surroundings. They offer better depth information than regular cameras, but produce patchy maps, with large sections often rendered invisible by objects blocking the laser’s path. This leads to maps that are “sparse and have highly variable point density,” as Apple’s researchers put it. In other words, it’s not good for safe self-driving.
To overcome this problem, engineers often deploy a number of discrete systems that first divide up the 3D LIDAR data into areas of interest (split into 3D pixels known as “voxels”) and then categorize what’s in it (identifying bikes, pedestrians, street signs, and so on). Apple’s VoxelNet basically compresses these processes into a single neural network, resulting in a system that’s more efficient than its predecessors. Researchers Yin Zhou and Oncel Tuzel benchmarked VoxelNet’s performance against a number of rival programs, and it handily outperformed them.
Is it groundbreaking research for self-driving cars? Well, no, not really. Roland Meertens, a Dutch engineer who builds computer vision systems for autonomous vehicles, said the results were impressive, but pointed out that other firms have long been using different methods to overcome LIDAR’s shortcomings — including combining its 3D data with feeds from regular cameras.
“Tesla, for example, does not use LIDAR at all, but their vehicles are pretty good at lane-keeping,” Meertens told The Verge. He adds that although VoxelNet could potentially be used for self-driving cars (including Apple’s) it will be “mainly interesting for other researchers working with similar data solving different problems in other spaces.”
That makes sense considering Apple has only published it on an academic server. More interesting, perhaps, is the fact it’s public at all. Apple’s notoriously secretive corporate culture means it’s not as forthcoming about its AI work as rival tech firms like Google and Facebook. This has been a drawback for its work in AI, a community where publishing top-quality research helps attract top-quality talent. Apple has made some moves to open up a little, including starting a blog this July that spotlights key areas of its work.
So far, the blog has looked at a number of AI tools underpinning important Apple products, including face identification (for Face ID) and speech recognition (for Siri). But the company has yet to publish any research on autonomous systems on its blog — including this paper. It seems Apple is happy to conduct research on how to create detailed maps, but isn’t keen to plot out a public course for its own self-driving ambitions just yet.


The FCC has released the final draft of its proposal to destroy net neutrality. The order removes nearly every net neutrality rule on the books — internet providers will be free to experiment with fast and slow lanes, prioritize their own traffic, and block apps and services. There’s really only one rule left here: that ISPs have to publicly disclose when they’re doing these things.
In the proposal, the commission calls its 2015 net neutrality ruling a “misguided and legally flawed approach.” It repeatedly states that the 2015 order “erred,” was “incorrect,” and came to “erroneous conclusions.” Removing these rules, the commission now argues, will “facilitate critical broadband investment and innovation by removing regulatory uncertainty and lowering compliance costs.”
The proposal also argues that consumer protections simply aren’t necessary because Federal Trade Commission will now have oversight of ISPs. “The transparency requirement we adopt, together with antitrust and consumer protection laws, ensures that consumers have means to take remedial action if an ISP engages in behavior inconsistent with an open internet,” the proposal states.
So while blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization may be okay with the FCC, the commission says that ISPs will still have to answer to the FTC, which may or may not be okay with those things. At a bare minimum though, the FTC has to be at least somewhat accepting of them — a court has already ruled that blocking those things outright would treat internet providers like common carriers; and since this proposal removes the common carrier designation from internet providers, that won’t be allowed.
Net neutrality supporters have long argued that these policies could unfairly advantage ISPs’ own content. But in the proposal, the FCC says it thinks that won’t happen — simply because some web companies are so much wealthier than ISPs. “It is unlikely that any ISP, except the very largest, could exercise market power in negotiations with Google or Netflix,” the proposal says. It also argues that small web companies need not worry, because any deal made between a large web company, like Google, and an ISP would need to be consistent with antitrust laws.
Existing antitrust law is the commission’s answer for pretty much every problem that could come up. Why should the FCC have its own rules on the books, it essentially asks, if federal law already covers many of these things? That ignores something important, though: federal antitrust law isn’t used very aggressively, whereas the FCC could have strictly enforced prohibitions on anti-competitive behavior. It’s not a huge leap to say this change is designed to significantly loosen the regulatory leash around ISPs so that they can go off and try new practices, even if they may put consumers at risk.
And in a fun twist, the commission also intends to prevent states from passing their own net neutrality laws. Allowing states to implement their own rules, the commission says, “could pose an obstacle to or place an undue burden” on the delivery of broadband service.
The order will be voted on next month, at the commission’s December 14th meeting, where it’s almost certain to pass.


Two years ago, NASA made a big splash when it announced the discovery of flowing water on the surface of Mars. But it turns out, the space agency might have been wrong. The surface features that NASA thought were made up of liquid water may actually be flowing grains of sand instead, according to new research from the US Geological Survey. And that could decrease the chances of microbial life living on the Red Planet.
The features in question are dark streaks that show up periodically on Martian hills, known as recurring slope lineae, or RSLs. When one of NASA’s spacecraft, the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, studied these lines more closely, it found that the RSLs were made up of hydrated salts — meaning they were mixed with water molecules. At the time, NASA thought that was significant evidence that flowing liquid water caused these bizarre streaks.
But researchers at the USGS say these features look identical to certain types of slopes found on sand dunes here on Earth. Those slopes are caused by dry grains of sand flowing downhill, without the help of any water. It’s possible the same thing is happening on Mars, too. Since liquid water is key for life here on Earth, many thought these strange lines of flowing water may help support life on the Martian surface. But now these RSLs may not be the best place to look for life anymore.
Of course, it’s still possible that life could exist on Mars, but researchers may want to focus on other places, like under the surface. It’s thought that liquid water exists underground, where it’s a bit warmer and easier for water to stay a liquid. “Mars still has water now, it just might be in fewer accessible places,” Michael Meyer, the lead scientist for NASA’s Mars Exploration Program, tells The Verge.
The RSLs seemed to contain water because of the weird way they behave: the streaks seem to seep down the hills, a bit like water trickling downward. That, and they grow thicker in the warmer months. While Mars is pretty frigid, its temperatures can exceed -9 degrees Fahrenheit during the summer, making the surface a bit more accommodating for water. In fact, water on Mars is thought to contain a type of salt called perchlorates that can make it easier for water to exist as a liquid at colder temperatures. Scientists thought that maybe the warm summers allowed this salty water to flow.
But the USGS thinks there’s another explanation for how the streaks form: researchers studied the shapes of 151 RSLs and found that all of them are located on slopes steeper than 27 degrees. But the flows appear to stop when the slopes become less steep — which water wouldn’t do. Instead, the RSLs all seem to form at slopes similar to what you’d find with piles of sand on Earth, according to lead study author Colin Dundas. Plus, the dark streaks seem to flow out of the tops of the hills, but water probably wouldn’t sprout out of the the tops of slopes at these angles, he says. Instead, the water would probably start flowing out somewhere farther down the slope.
Researchers still think that what the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter found is solid, and that hydrated salts are involved. But they’re probably not as wet as NASA originally thought. “This suggests there isn’t a large amount of liquid water associated with RSLs,” Dundas, a research geologist with the USGS, tells The Verge. “There may be a small amount of liquid water involved... but this is pointing to a relatively dry mechanism.”
So this may mean Mars’ surface isn’t as habitable as we thought, but that doesn’t mean the search is over yet. “There are lots of things that speak to Mars at least having the potential for life early on,” says Meyer. “And if it did happen, it has the potential for life hidden deep down below the surface.”




Black Friday is upon us, but if you’ve been paying attention, you’ll have noticed that sales this year started as early as November 1st. That’s been the trend in recent years, as retailers move the start date earlier to maximize sales. What that means for the rest of us is that we need more stamina than ever to stay vigilant and alert and snatch the best deals — that is, if you want to win at Black Friday.
At The Verge, we’ve been scouring the web to bring you the best Black Friday deals in tech. While we don’t typically write about karaoke machines, massage pads, or children’s toys, with the exception of this nifty Nintendo Switch lookalike, we can confidently say now is a good time to swipe those items if you want them for the holiday season.
As retail workers will note, some of the very best deals are insider deals. If your company is holding a charity sale or if you work in retail and can apply an employee discount on top of a Black Friday discount, that’s the icing on top of the cake. For the rest of us, however, here are some general tips for winning at Black Friday.
A common way retailers get you is by saying there are “deals” when there really aren’t. This leaves you, compelled by the spirit of good spending, to decide to buy everything you see for fear the discount will disappear. A good rule of thumb is to keep a running list of products you need, like a smart speaker or a new monitor, and then note their manufacturer’s suggested retail prices (MSRP) and their actual usual prices. Then, compare them to what the prices are now during Black Friday weekend, or even from last year’s Black Friday sales for similar models.
Beware of retailers that suddenly boast the MSRP of certain products. The keyword of that acronym is “suggested,” meaning most times, things like TVs and headphones are never actually sold at the exact MSRP and often priced for less. Ads will often say something is significantly marked down, but if a 4K smart TV is now $1,000, marked down from a $2,000 suggested retail price, and it’s usually sold elsewhere at $1,020 any other time of year, then that’s not a huge bargain. That’s just business as usual.
To reiterate: just because something is advertised at 70 percent off MSRP, that doesn’t mean it’s cheaper than it has been year round. Do your research to know what’s a good deal and what isn’t. And if you’re super concerned about overspending, bring cash to the brick-and-mortar stores so you’re limited to buying just what you came for.
Newer devices like the Apple Watch Series 3 and the Nintendo Switch most likely won’t get massive discounts during Black Friday. That’s to be expected; these are relatively new products for Apple and Nintendo, and both companies are relying on them to sell like hotcakes even at full retail. Case in point, the best deal we’ve seen for the Apple Watch Series 3 was a $5 discount offered by eBay. And as of this reporting, we haven’t seen any deals for the Switch just yet. Small retailers that are offering $199 for the 42mm model of the Apple Watch Series 3 with cellular are likely a scam to be avoided. Trust your gut. If it’s too good to be true, don’t risk it.
Another general theme we’ve seen is that most new flagship smartphones won’t see an unusually steep discount — not the Samsung Galaxy S8, the Note 8, and certainly not the iPhone X. Some carriers like T-Mobile are offering mediocre deals that let you buy one and get one free if you add a line, but these are not true Black Friday deals as they’re typically offered when the phones first launch.
Keep in mind that retailers like Newegg, Best Buy, and others are likewise offering fewer discounts on new computer parts, laptops, and gaming accessories that have been out for less than half a year. This means that if you were hoping to build a gaming PC this holiday season with the latest specs like an Intel Core i7-8700k with a Nvidia GTX 1080 Ti, but you were holding off in case of deals, just go ahead and press the buy button now. That is unless Newegg’s select PC part deals or other deals listed on the subreddit /r/buildapcsales just happen to be the ones you had your eye on.
After Yahoo disclosed in October that all of its 3 billion user accounts were affected by the 2013 security breach, there became virtually no reason why anyone should continue using their Yahoo account — except for subscribing to every major retailer for emails. It’s where I keep my promotional emails from Dropbox, Starbucks, League of Legends, Hulu, and more. By keeping all these coupons in an email you’re likely to only check once a week at most, you can strike the perfect balance of staying on top of deals, but not letting them take over your life.
In the same vein, you should download the apps of all the major retailers you’re interested in so you can capitalize on app-exclusive deals. Make sure to head into Notifications to switch off push notifications. Sure, this might make you several minutes late to a few crucial deals, but it does wonders for mental health during a very hectic shopping season.
Patience, young padawan. Like a hunter stalking your prey, if you’re online shopping, keep tabs open in incognito mode and in regular mode just in case retailers are switching up prices on you. If you are banking on getting a TV this weekend, have a backup model you’ll be happy with as plan B. That way, if the one you want is sold out, you’re ready to move forward with a second option.
If you’re heading into Black Friday brick-and-mortar madness, pick a store that generally gets less traffic, and make sure you bring a water bottle, snacks, a battery pack, and a giant backpack to lug your treasures back with you.
Deals can be extremely satisfying, but not worth risking any kind of injury to obtain. That includes physical injuries by arguing with other shoppers in the store, or digital ones where you are buying from sites with poor security practices and little fraud protection. Look for HTTPS in retailer URLs, and put your purchases on one credit card to easily monitor spending.
Some deals started last week, others start now or later this weekend, so stay rested and hydrated. Check the return policies on things you buy and apply credit card cash back when possible. Whatever you do, don’t panic and impulse buy 10 Google Home Minis unless you really need them. Good luck.


The FCC received a record-breaking 22 million comments chiming in on the net neutrality debate, but from the sound of it, it’s ignoring the vast majority of them. In a call with reporters yesterday discussing its plan to end net neutrality, a senior FCC official said that 7.5 million of those comments were the exact same letter, which was submitted using 45,000 fake email addresses.
But even ignoring the potential spam, the commission said it didn’t really care about the public’s opinion on net neutrality unless it was phrased in unique legal terms. The vast majority of the 22 million comments were form letters, the official said, and unless those letters introduced new facts into the record or made serious legal arguments, they didn’t have much bearing on the decision. The commission didn’t care about comments that were only stating opinion.
The FCC has been clear all year that it’s focused on “quality” over “quantity” when it comes to comments on net neutrality. In fairness to the commission, this isn’t an open vote. It’s a deliberative process that weighs a lot of different factors to create policy that balances the interests of many stakeholders. But it still feels brazen hearing the commission staff repeatedly discount Americans’ preference for consumer protections, simply because they aren’t phrased in legal terms.
Americans by and large aren’t lawyers capable of putting together cogent legal analysis of telecommunications law, and prewritten form letters were widely offered to net neutrality supporters and opponents as a way to make their voice heard by the commission. The commission is required to accept and review public input. But if you were hoping that input would make a difference in the end, the FCC is now making it very clear that most letters it received didn’t change a thing.


The latest company to receive a permit to test self-driving cars on public roads in California only just revealed that it wanted to build its own automated driving software four months ago. Ride-hail service Lyft just popped up today at the bottom of the California DMV’s list of permit holders, a sign that the ride-hail service was preparing to test its first robot taxis.
What isn’t clear is whether Lyft will test autonomous vehicles using its own proprietary software and hardware suite, or the technology of one of its many self-driving partners. The ride-hail company has teamed up with companies like Ford, General Motors, Waymo, NuTonomy, Drive.ai, and Jaguar Land Rover, with the intention of being the platform on which those manufacturers deploy their self-driving cars. A spokesperson for Lyft did not immediately return a request for comment.
It could also be the case that Lyft simply doesn’t want to get left out of the party. California’s list of autonomous vehicle testing permit holders is a veritable who’s who of automakers and tech companies. It was only a matter of time before Lyft decided to throw its own name onto the pile.
The company’s decision to apply for a permit stands in stark contrast to its main rival Uber and the mess it created when it attempted to test its own self-driving cars in California without approval. The DMV revoked the licenses of Uber’s fleet of cars, forcing the company to eventually acquiesce and obtain a permit.


OnePlus confirmed in its forums yesterday that none of its current devices, including the 3/3T and the 5/5T, will support Project Treble, even after they're updated to Android Oreo. Project Treble is an Android Oreo feature that attempts to address slow Android update schedules by allowing manufacturers to push out Google's most recent OS without having to wait on their chip partner, like Qualcomm, to support it.
At the time of Project Treble's announcement, it seemed that any device updated to Oreo would be eligible to support the program and that manufacturers would likely be interested in it. Now, however, it's clear that even devices running the most recent OS won't have to support the project, meaning that even if your phone’s manufacturer gives you Oreo, you aren't guaranteed a faster update to the next OS. Only devices that ship with Android Oreo installed out of the box will be required to feature Project Treble, and, disappointingly, OnePlus' most recent phone, the 5T, ships with Android Nougat. (The same goes for the Razer Phone, which was announced earlier this month.)
Still, Google's first-generation Pixel phone supports Project Treble, and the Essential Phone is attempting to support the feature, even though those phones first shipped with Android Nougat. So it’s clear that adding support is possible — even if, several months after Oreo’s release, it’s still rare.
It isn't necessarily surprising that OnePlus wouldn't support Treble, given that it clearly has no problem shipping new phones with outdated operating systems, but it would have been nice to see the company commit to supporting Google's goal of faster updates and making the whole Android ecosystem more consistent and modern.


If you’re shopping for a new phone this weekend, be prepared to read some fine print. The days of straightforward discounts are over. Instead, you’re now looking at deals that require you to sign up for frequently confusing installment or leasing plans, with the discounts paying out over the course up to two years.
That’s certainly not as nice as just getting a price cut up front. But if you were planning to buy your phone on a monthly payment plan anyway, there’s not much to take issue with here. On Black Friday, you’ll be able to save several hundred dollars on some of this year’s top phones. You can check out this year’s best discounts below.
Buy a new iPhone or Galaxy phone on an AT&T or Verizon installment plan, get a free $300 Walmart gift card. For iPhones, the offers applies to the iPhone 7, 7 Plus, 8, 8 Plus, and X. For Galaxy phones, it applies to the S8, S8 Plus, and Note 8.
The year-old Galaxy S7 (32GB) is also on sale for $299 (usually $499).
Buy a Galaxy S8, S8 Plus, or Note 8 for $300 off on Verizon and Sprint installment plans.
Buy an iPhone 8 or 8 Plus for $200 off on Verizon, AT&T, and Sprint installment plans.
Buy an iPhone 6S for $150 off on Verizon, AT&T, and Sprint installment plans.
Buy an LG G6 for $119.76 on a Sprint installment plan (usually $480).
Buy a Moto Z2 Play for $191.76 on Verizon installment plan (usually $408).
Buy a Moto G Plus (64GB) for $225 (usually $300).
Buy an iPhone 8 or 8 Plus on a Verizon, AT&T, or Sprint installment plan, get a free $250 Target gift card.
Buy a Galaxy S8, Galaxy S8 Plus, or Galaxy Note 8 on on a Verizon, AT&T, or Sprint installment plan, get a free $300 Target gift card.
Verizon is offering 50 percent off the Pixel 2, Galaxy S8, and Moto Z2 Force when you sign up for an unlimited plan.
It’s also offering 35 percent off the Pixel 2 XL, Galaxy S8 Plus, and the Note 8 for those who sign up for an unlimited plan.
And finally, it’ll be offering $100 off some Android phones above $400 when bought on an installment plan, but it isn’t clear which models qualify.
Lease a Galaxy S8, S8 Plus, S8 Active, or Note 8 for 50 percent off. Be aware that the discount applies to the 18-month lease period only. If you want to pay off and purchase the phone, you’ll have to pay full price on the remaining quarter of it.
Lease a Moto Z2 Force for 50 percent off. Like the Samsung deal, this applies to the 18-month lease period only.
Lease an iPhone 8 or X for $350 off. No additional gimmicks here, though you’ll need to remain subscribed to Sprint for 18 months to get the total discount.
This is hard to really qualify as a deal, but T-Mobile will give you $300 off an iPhone X if you trade in another recent iPhone. The discount will be doled out over 24 monthly payments.
Otherwise, T-Mobile is primarily doing buy-one-get-one deals, which require opening a new line of service (something that won’t apply to most people). But if you’ve been planning to do that, now’s the time: the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, Galaxy S8, S8 Plus, S8 Active, and Note 8, and the LG V30 and G6 are all eligible. Buy one, open another line of service, and the second phone will be free. Both phones have to be purchased on installment plans, but unlike similar deals, this discount won’t be slowly rationed out over the course of two years: instead, T-Mobile will issue the rebate via a Prepaid MasterCard eight weeks after purchase; so theoretically, you’ll only need to maintain service with T-Mobile until the gift card arrives, at which point you’d be able to pay off both phones in full if you want to trade one in or switch to another carrier.
AT&T is offering a free iPhone 7 (32GB), but with a lot of strings attached: you need to remain an AT&T customer for two years, and you need to be a DirecTV customer or sign up for DirecTV. And for some reason, DirecTV Now doesn’t count.
Buy an HTC U11 for $599 ($50 off) and get a free pair of JBL Reflect Aware USB-C earbuds.
Buy a Moto Z2 Play for $400 (usually $500).
All Moto Mods are on sale for 25 percent off.
Buy a Moto G5 Plus with 32GB of storage for $200 ($30 off) or with 64GB of storage for $230 ($70 off).
Buy an LG V30 or V30 Plus, get up to $400 off another LG product.
Buy a Galaxy S8 or Note 8, get a free Gear 360.
Get $150 off the Unlocked Samsung Galaxy S8 or S8 Plus starting Thursday, November 23rd.
Google isn’t offering any Black Friday deals on the Pixel 2, but a discount is available through Verizon.
Apple is offering a $50 gift card with the purchase of an iPhone 7 or 6S.
It’s also offering a $25 gift card with the purchase of an iPhone SE.
You can find better deals elsewhere.
Update and correction November 24th, 9:45AM ET: This story has been updated to include deals from AT&T and Apple. This story has also been corrected to accurate reflect the terms of T-Mobile’s BOGO deal.


Google’s Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales this year will be all about the home. So if you’re hoping to score a deal on the new Pixel 2 smartphones during this long weekend’s shopping events, I have some bad news. In fact, it doesn’t appear that any of the Pixel-branded devices announced back in October will be discounted, or at least the company hasn’t announced anything yet and we’re just 48 hours away from kickoff.
Here’s what you can expect, though.
The best Google product to buy on Black Friday
Google will be discounting its Google Home speakers and Chromecast dongles, both of which are great stocking stuffers or an affordable gift for friends and family. The Google Home Mini, announced in October, will see the steepest discount, dropping down from $49 to $29 with a $10 store credit, which effectively makes the device as cheap as $19.
If you do not want store credit to the Google Store, a ton of retailers are also offering store credit when you buy the Mini. eBay’s price-matching offer nets you a $10 eBay gift card, while Best Buy and Target will also offer $10 store credits for future purchases. Walmart will offer $25 credit off a future order when made through Google Express. This deal essentially gets you a Google Home Mini for just $4.
Other good deals
The full-sized Google Home will also see a discount down from $129 to $79 in the Google Store, Best Buy, and Target, with Walmart offering the same $25 Google Express credit when linking your accounts. Sorry, no major discounts on the Google Home Max.
Both the Chromecast and Chromecast Audio will be discounted from $35 to $25 in the Google Store, with Walmart and Best Buy offering the best deal at $20 for the regular Chromecast dongle. The Chromecast Ultra will see its price drop from $69 to $54.
So it boils down to this: the Walmart and Google Express deal offers two coupons per household, so if you’re looking to score multiple Minis for the house, be prepared to pick your favorite retailer and stock up on the colorful little speakers.



In 1986, young Black Brooklynite Spike Lee made his first feature-length film with a small budget and big aspirations. The plot was a simple but fresh one in that decade: Lee’s leading lady flipped the script on expected gender norms by playing a character with no shame about her sexual ambition, or her focus on her own pleasure. With its black-and-white polish and its documentary-style storytelling, She’s Gotta Have It the film gave the mainstream world a glimpse of Black urban life. Now, a new Netflix series has Lee rebooting his 30-year-old storyline, viewing She’s Gotta Have It through a modern lens. But can Lee in 2017 be as groundbreaking as he was 30 years ago?
Like the film, the series centers on Nola Darling (DeWanda Wise, of Shots Fired and Underground), a beautiful young struggling Brooklyn artist who follows her own rules. She states in the beginning of the series that she doesn't “believe in one-word labels,” which is the foundation of her viewpoint on sex and relationships. She’s currently in casual relationships with three men with radically different personalities: Jamie Overstreet (Lyriq Bent, of the Saw films and Canada’s Rookie Blue) is an older investor and father in a fraying marriage. Mars Blackmon (Anthony Ramos, first to play John Laurens / Philip Hamilton in Broadway’s Hamilton) is a goofy, lighthearted sneaker enthusiast who works at a local bike shop. And Greer Childs (Cleo Anthony, of Extant and Transparent) is a self-obsessed photographer. At various points in the series, each of them are interested in committing to a relationship with Nola. But she stands firm: “If they want to deal with me, it has to be on my terms, or it ain't gonna happen.”
Moving from an 86-minute film to a 10-episode series to revamp this story, Lee makes some positive changes. This time around, Nola’s sex life is only one aspect of her identity. While the film attempts to establish Nola as an independent sexual being, Lee’s narrow focus on her romantic life deflates any character development she could have had. In the series, Nola’s life outside her bedroom is the center of the story. While waiting to see whether she’ll be awarded an important art grant, she gets a part-time teaching job. In the series, she has a broader work and social life: interacting with students, grabbing drinks with friends, taking a dance class, going to a party. This time around, she even paints. In Lee’s film, she’s an artist who never creates anything. “She talked about it, you never saw her as an artist,” Lee tells Rolling Stone. “You see Nola creating art in this.”
Some of the credit certainly goes to the Black women who wrote the five of the series’ 10 episodes. Lee wrote, edited, and directed the film on his own, but the series owes a lot to its screenwriters, including Brooklyn writer-performer Radha Blank (who scripted two episodes); actress Eisa Davis (Cynthia Driscoll on House of Cards), writer and actress Joie Lee (Lee’s sister, a fixture in his films, and Nola’s mom in the series), and Pulitzer-Prize winning playwright Lynn Nottage. Often, Nola’s free spirit ways in the film come off as a caricature of a carefree Black girl, because she’s so isolated from the world, apart from the men in her bed. In the series, she has layers. She’s part of a community instead of one man’s representation of an ideal.
And by making her richer and more complicated, the writers get a chance to bring other women into her orbit, and to make the characters around her layered as well. In the film, Clorinda Bradford was Nola’s previous roommate who moved out when she got tired of witnessing Nola’s sexual escapades. In the series, Clorinda (Margot Bingham, of Queen Sugar and Boardwalk Empire) still moves out, but she remains friends with Nola, and is an active part of her life. Clorinda also has a career as an art curator, and she uses that platform to showcase Nola’s art. Having a sister circle makes Nola a more realistic person. With female agency at the forefront of her values, it would be ridiculous for her to not have female friends. Shemekka (who gets her own arc dealing with body issues and illegal butt injections) and Rachel (the token “woke” white friend) round out her circle, adding a new dimension to Nola: interesting, supportive friendships that aren’t just about sex.
That doesn’t minimize the series’ sexuality. Casual sex is more common in media now than it was 30 years ago, but it’s still rare to see Black characters indulging in it — Black women in particular. Lee is in the director’s chair for all 10 episodes of the series, and his habit of examining people in bed via overhead shots hasn’t changed. But shooting in color, rather than the original film’s black and white, brings a new dimension to these scenes. The different hues of brown skin are highlighted in this series, as a result of Nola’s choice of lovers. We also get equal-opportunity nudity, with the men stripping down as well. (Lee says he was upfront about the male nudity with the actors from the beginning: “Particularly today, I'd be crucified if Nola's butt-naked and she's the only one — I'd be justifiably crucified. So I told the men, I said, "Yo, we got to see your ass, too." The graphic, open nudity of these sequences are reminiscent of Insecure, the current leader in showing Black female sexuality on television.
Nola stays firm about letting whoever she pleases in her “lovin bed,” including other women. Another change from the original version has Nola labeling herself as pansexual, and entering a relationship with Opal Gilstrap (Ilfenesh Hadera, of Billions, Master of None, and Baywatch). In the series, Opal is a lesbian mother who owns a plant nursery in Brooklyn. In the film, she’s a casual friend who makes a pass at Nola, and gets rejected. In the series, she feels like the most compatible of Nola’s lovers, and the one with the highest chance of working out as a long-term relationship. In therapy, Nola describes Opal as safe: “Unlike the men I’ve been dealing with, she’s not tryna own me.” It’s refreshing to see a Black queer relationship presented positively, as safe, stable, and open.
Certainly the best improvement from the original film is the removal of the unnecessary rape scene. The sequence, where Jaime sexually assaults Nola, was a step backward from the film’s attempted character development and its message of empowerment. It signaled that sexually independent Black women need to be brought down a peg, that there are consequences for Black women with agency over their bodies.
Spike Lee expressed regret over this scene in a 2014 Deadline interview: “It was just totally… stupid. I was immature. It made light of rape, and that’s the one thing I would take back. I was immature and I hate that I did not view rape as the vile act that it is.” Instead, the series includes a street harassment scene where Nola is catcalled and physically assaulted while walking home. But the series treats the incident responsibly and seriously, with Nola visibly shaken, but working through her trauma via art and therapy.
The Netflix series isn’t entirely an improvement over the original. It begins to feel aimless midway into the series. Some of the B-stories drag long, especially between episodes 5 and 9. Lee and his team keep each episode pretty lean — most clock in around 35 minutes — but some of the side stories are dull. While it’s new and juicy that Jamie’s character is a married man, for example, only half of his home life scenes are worthwhile, while the others are dry. The show even features a couple of surrealist musical / dance numbers that do nothing to progress the story. This version of She’s Gotta Have It could've easily been cut down to six or seven episodes while still maintaining its pacing and interest.
This isn’t the only Netflix series that’s given a director a chance to revisit prior works. From Wet Hot American Summer: 10 Years Later to Fuller House to The Magic School Bus Rides Again, the streaming service has been a safe space for reboots and continuations, for creators trying again. This particular series is reminiscent of Dear White People, which Justin Simien originally made as a film, then brought to Netflix to flesh out the main characters. Dear White People chose the prequel route, developing the core characters leading up to the movie’s infamous blackface party. With She’s Gotta Have It, Lee instead chose to retell the story with more background information and better developed characters. Both series reinvigorate their stories; they just take different tacks.
The premise of She’s Gotta Have It feels more socially accepted than it was 30 years ago, but the new series still adds fresh blood. Lee’s creation adapts well to its new era, and where it’s necessary, the creators revamp the story to take it further than the original. And to this day, there still aren’t enough stories about women owning their sexual agency. While not as groundbreaking as it was 30 years ago, She’s Gotta Have It is part of a rising tide of media that gives Black women the opportunity to headline the story and call the shots.
Netflix’s She’s Gotta Have It premieres on November 23rd, 2017. Lee’s original film is also streaming on Netflix as of this writing.


Google’s search algorithms have been haphazard for a long time, but over the past year we’ve seen a number of incidents where top results are spreading wildly inaccurate and offensive material. The latest has Google highlighting an offensive meme from the sjwhate subreddit as part of its search result for the “gender fluid” query. The offensive image is the first thing you see for the term, alongside a Wikipedia entry.
The slip-up comes just a month after Google briefly gave its “top stories” stamp of approval to two 4chan threads identifying the wrong suspect in the recent Las Vegas mass shooting tragedy. This latest search result problem appears to be related to the company’s snippet feature. Featured snippets are designed to answer queries instantly, and they’ve often provided bad answers in the past. Google’s Home device, for example, used a featured snippet to answer the question “are women evil?” with the horrendously bad answer “every woman has some degree of prostitute in her.”
So why does this keep happening? As my colleague Adi Robertson points out, Google’s original PageRank algorithm was built to deliver the most popular and influential results for any search query regardless of accuracy. The algorithm has developed into providing instant results, and we’ve seen those algorithms manipulated by third parties or duped by inaccurate sources.
The dominance and popularity of Google means people use the company’s name as a transitive verb to define information searches. And with little competition, Google becomes the de facto source for all the answers we seek. People trust Google more than most tech companies, as highlighted in a recent Verge survey, thereby giving its search results and featured snippets an enhanced sense of authority.
While Facebook understandably receives a lot of attention for the “fake news” epidemic, Google’s search results are a big part of this problem. Google has an important role to play in managing its own platform and internet search results correctly, and over the past year its shown it has a lot of work to do.
“Featured snippets are algorithmically generated and are intended as a way to find the information you need more quickly,” says a Google spokesperson. “We’re always working to improve our processes, and we welcome feedback on misleading or low quality information. If a particular Featured Snippet is in violation of our policies, we take action to remove.” The offensive image appears to have now been removed from the search result.
Update, 9AM ET: Google statement added to article.


In the latest case of a product to be filed under “of course this exists,” Casio has announced a rugged action camera heavily influenced by its iconic G-Shock brand. Though the G'z Eye GZE-1 takes its name from Casio's line of sturdy smartphones, its design comes straight from the company's tough watches.
The GZE-1 isn't the most capable action camera in the world — it shoots 1080p at 30fps, 480p at 120fps, and 6-megapixel photos — but with 50 meters (164 feet) of waterproofing and 4 meters (13 feet) of shockproofing, it's one of the toughest. At 190.8 degrees, the f/2.8 lens is also wider than those of most action cameras. And if you happen to have Casio's latest Pro Trek Android Wear watch, you can use it as a viewfinder; in the likely event that you don't, there'll be a G'z Eye app for your phone.
Casio hasn't announced a global release date or pricing for the GZE-1 just yet, but it costs 46,000 yen in Japan, so you should probably expect the US price to be set at around $400.


Google is bringing its artificial intelligence-powered Lens tool to all Pixel and Pixel 2 phones in the coming weeks as part of an update to Google Assistant, the company announced today in a blog post. Lens, which was first unveiled back in May at the company’s I/O developer conference, is an computer vision system that lets you point your Pixel or Pixel 2 camera at an object and get information about it in real time, as the AI-powered algorithm is capable of recognizing real-world items.
Lens was first made available within Google Photos last month as part of the Pixel 2 launch, and now Google says Lens will soon arrive as a built-in feature of Google Assistant starting in the US, UK, Australia, Canada, India, and Singapore “in the coming weeks,” the blog post reads.
Right now, Lens won’t be able to identify everything around you. Google says it’s best used on simple items to start. It can identify text, for when you want to save information from business cards, save a URL from a poster or flier, call a phone number written down on paper, or open Google Maps with directions to a written address. Lens can also identify notable landmarks and can pull up information websites and media for art, books, and movies by pointing the camera at film posters, book covers, and museum installations.
Lens also works as a more efficient barcode and QR code scanner. Down the line, Google says Lens will only improve as it learns more about our surroundings and becomes more adept at identifying people, objects, and any manner of other things in the real world.


Russian communications agency Roskomnadzor has reportedly asked Google to clarify a statement from Alphabet executive chairman Eric Schmidt, who suggested the search engine would downrank results from government-funded media outlets RT and Sputnik.
Agency head Alexander Zharov told the Interfax news service that his office sent a letter requesting more detail about comments Schmidt made to an audience at the Halifax International Security Forum, Reuters writes. “We will receive an answer and understand what to do next,” Zhorov said, according to Interfax. “We hope our opinion will be heard, and we won’t have to resort to more serious” retaliation.
Schmidt was responding to an audience member who mentioned Sputnik’s prominence in Google news alerts and questioned its participation in Google Adsense monetization. “We're well aware of this one, and we're working on detecting this kind of scenario you're describing, and again, de-ranking those kinds of sites,” said Schmidt. “It's basically RT and Sputnik are the two, and there's a whole bunch of coverage about what we're doing there. But we're well aware of it, we're trying to engineer the systems to prevent it. We don’t want to ban the sites; that's not how we operate.”
Sputnik quotes Zharov as saying that he will wait to “see how discriminating this measure will be in its practical embodiment” before taking future action.
Other companies and organizations, including US intelligence agencies, have accused Sputnik and RT of spreading politically motivated misinformation and propaganda. Twitter banned the two broadcasters from its advertising network last month, citing a need to “help protect the integrity of the user experience,” though they remain members of the platform itself.
Google spokesperson Andrea Faville told Reuters that Schmidt’s comments referred to general search ranking improvements that were announced in April, including moves to promote “authoritative” pages and demote “low-quality content.” Google declined to comment on the letter to The Verge, but Faville reiterated that Schmidt was talking about “ongoing efforts to improve search quality,” and that there were “no concrete plans to share” about the process. “We don't change our algorithms to re-rank individual sites,” she said.


Uber suffered a large-scale cyberattack in October of 2016 that exposed the confidential data of 57 million customers and drivers, the company disclosed today in a statement following a damning Bloomberg report. Among Uber’s faults include not only failing to disclose the hack, but in covering it up as well. Former CEO Travis Kalanick was informed of the attack just one month after it transpired, but it was not publicly announced and in fact was concealed by Chief Security Officer Joe Sullivan and his subordinates, the report says, leading Uber to fire the executive and one of his lieutenants this week.
The company allegedly paid its hackers a $100,000 ransom to delete the data and not publicize the breach to media or regulators. “None of this should have happened, and I will not make excuses for it,” current CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, who replaced Kalanick as chief exec back in September, writes in the company’s statement. “We are changing the way we do business.” Uber reportedly declined to identify the attackers.
The hack included names, email addresses, and phone numbers of more than 50 million Uber riders worldwide, while more than 7 million Uber drivers had similar data exposed on top of driver’s license numbers for around 600,000 US drivers. Bloomberg says Uber, at the time of the breach, was talking with US regulators over separate privacy violations and had just settled with the Federal Trade Commission over mishandling of consumer data, leading Sullivan to spearhead a cover-up to avoid further fallout over its security and privacy practices. Uber’s board of directors initiated an investigation of Sullivan’s team last month, leading to disclosure of the hack and its concealment.
The nature of the hack is relatively straightforward, according to Bloomberg: hackers with access to a public GitHub code repository used by Uber engineers were able to collect private login credentials to an Amazon cloud computing server, from which the hackers stole a list of rider and driver data. They then extorted Uber for the $100,000 fee. Khosrowshahi, alongside the company’s new executive leadership, have already informed the New York attorney general and the FTC of the attack. The company also says its chief legal officer, who is leaving the company and will have a replacement starting tomorrow, was never informed of the situation. Following the disclosure, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman confirmed to TechCrunch that it has opened an investigation into the hack and subsequent failure to report it.
“At the time of the incident, we took immediate steps to secure the data and shut down further unauthorized access by the individuals. We also implemented security measures to restrict access to and strengthen controls on our cloud-based storage accounts,” Khosrowshahi explains. “While I can’t erase the past, I can commit on behalf of every Uber employee that we will learn from our mistakes.” Uber has brought on a former lawyer for the National Security Agency, who also served as a director for the National Counterterrorism Center, to help it buff up security. The company has also retained security firm Mandiant to further investigate the hack.
Update at 5:41PM ET, 11/21: Added confirmation from Uber and a link to the company’s statement on its website.
Update at 8:06PM ET, 11/21: Added confirmation that New York AG Eric Schneiderman has opened an investigation into the cyberattack and its cover up.


The Justice Department’s lawsuit seeking to block the AT&T–Time Warner merger, filed this week, has suddenly scrambled political battle lines and set up a historic legal fight in a quickly unfolding showdown. If approved, the merger would create a new entertainment powerhouse, as AT&T uses its distribution channels for Time Warner-owned content like CNN and HBO. If denied, it could set a new precedent for how similar mergers are approached.
Both parties have arguments that lean on years of precedent and context — and recent comments from President Trump may also be a factor. Here’s what you need to know to understand the legal dispute.
The Justice Department’s argument, which it lays out in the complaint filed this week, is fairly straightforward: if AT&T is allowed to go forward with the transaction, it will be able to unilaterally price out competitors who might otherwise offer content owned by Time Warner. Anti-competitive deals like that are unlawful, it argues.
AT&T, the Department continues, could increase the price for, say, cable channels, harming every distributor who isn’t AT&T but who wants those channels. Right now, if a price is too high, a distributor of those cable channels can walk away from the transaction. But if the merger were approved, AT&T would be at a distinct advantage: it might be the only distributor offering a package with those channels.
The Justice Department encapsulates the idea early on in its complaint:
If allowed to proceed, this merger will harm consumers by substantially lessening competition among traditional video distributors and slowing emerging online competition. After the merger, the merged company would have the power to make its video distributor rivals less competitive by raising their costs, resulting in even higher monthly bills for American families. The merger also would enable the merged firm to hinder the growth of online distributors that it views as a threat to the traditional pay-TV model.
Some observers have sided with the Department on that thesis. “That the Justice Department should seek divestitures would — absent the Trump effect — seem logical, commendable and a continuation of recent merger practice,” author and Columbia professor Tim Wu wrote in a New York Times op-ed earlier this month.
In a statement, AT&T leaned on antitrust history to suggest that the Justice Department was taking action that was unprecedented in the modern era. Calling the lawsuit “inexplicable,” the company pointed out that the Justice Department has not taken similar “vertical” mergers to court, where the companies don’t directly compete, for decades. In the meantime, the Department approved “hundreds” of such deals, AT&T said.
The company also made the claim that the deal would ultimately increase competition, as the landscape is already competitive. AT&T points to both giant corporations like Comcast, as well as streaming services like Netflix, as evidence that consumers won’t be harmed by the merger. “Against this backdrop, there is no realistic possibility that AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner’s modest portion of a rapidly-expanding content universe could possibly slow innovation or lead to higher consumer prices,” the company said in a statement.
Hanging over the entire lawsuit is President Trump, who has expressed disdain for Time Warner-owned CNN, and has said in the past the he believes the merger should be blocked. As a candidate, Trump said the merger was “a deal we will not approve in my administration, because it’s too much concentration of power in the hands of too few.” Reports said the Justice Department demanded Time Warner divest itself of some properties, possibly including CNN, before it would approve the deal. AT&T has said it wouldn’t make a deal on those terms, and Trump has denied making the decision to intervene.
The situation immediately raised questions about whether the Justice Department’s lawsuit was politically motivated — a way for the Trump administration to damage CNN. Although it’s unclear how well that argument would play out in court, the motivations behind the lawsuit will likely continue to be scrutinized.
While it’s true that the government rarely fights such vertical mergers in court, regulators have not sidestepped involvement in such deals entirely. AT&T notes that its deal is similar to the 2011 merger between Comcast and NBC Universal. The Justice Department ultimately approved that deal, and AT&T argues that its merger proposal is much less controversial.
Still, the Comcast deal didn’t come without strings: regulators imposed several conditions meant to stop the company from using its new power to quash upstarts like Netflix. (Those conditions will finally expire next year.) Harold Feld, senior vice president at nonprofit Public Knowledge, which opposes the deal, notes that divestiture is one possible substitute for “behavioral” antitrust remedies, which the Obama administration was fond of. The current head of the antitrust division has said he doesn’t agree with that approach.
However it turns out, the case will likely become a milestone in antitrust law. A win for AT&T would contribute to a consolidated industry, and likely make related cases harder to win in the future. Similarly, successfully blocking the merger could set the tone for the Trump administration’s future antitrust efforts. “This is certainly a signal that the DOJ is going to be a lot less willing to negotiate and is going to insist instead on divestitures,” Feld says.



John Lasseter, chief creative officer of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, is taking a six-month leave of absence in the wake of complaints about his professional behavior. According to The Hollywood Reporter, Lasseter announced the news in a staff memo on Tuesday, where he admitted to “missteps” and behavior that left employees feeling “disrespected or uncomfortable.”
“I’ve recently had a number of difficult conversations that have been very painful for me. It’s never easy to face your missteps, but it’s the only way to learn from them,” he writes in the memo. “Collectively, you mean the world to me, and I deeply apologize if I have let you down. I especially want to apologize to anyone who has ever been on the receiving end of an unwanted hug or any other gesture they felt crossed the line in any way, shape, or form. No matter how benign my intent, everyone has the right to set their own boundaries and have them respected.”
Lasseter has been a creative force in animation since the 1980s. As an early employee of Pixar, he directed the first two Toy Story films, and he’s been a core member of the company’s creative brain trust since the company was founded. When Disney bought Pixar in 2006, Lasseter became chief creative officer of both Pixar and Disney Animation. After taking on dual duties, he has overseen a creative revitalization of Disney’s animated output, leading to films like Frozen, Tangled, and Wreck-It Ralph.
But a second story from the Reporter details complaints about Lasseter’s behavior toward women going back more than a decade. Lasseter is described as an enthusiastic hugger, but the allegations go far beyond that. According to the story, women in the company resorted to a move they nicknamed “The Lasseter” to prevent the executive from putting his hands on their legs without consent, while another source stated photos from company events had been strategically cropped to remove evidence of impropriety.
The story also alleges that writer and actor Rashida Jones — who co-wrote the upcoming Toy Story 4 — left the project after the executive made an unwanted advance toward her.
The news comes as Hollywood is undergoing a massive shake-up in the wake of sexual assault allegations against producer Harvey Weinstein. In the weeks since that story first broke, Amazon Studios head Roy Price was forced to step down after allegations about his behavior became public, while actor Kevin Spacey was fired from House of Cards and dropped by his representatives after multiple stories alleged sexual assault and other behavior. Comedian Louis CK also admitted to long-standing rumors about his treatment of women, leading to the canceled release of his latest film and the collapse of deals with FX and HBO.
The throughline in most of these stories — other then powerful men abusing that power — is the entertainment industry’s quick-snap reaction to cut ties with the individuals in question. (Director Ridley Scott even went so far as to recast Spacey’s role in a movie that was already shot, and is set to come out next month.) While it’s taken some time for that momentum to build in the wake of the original Weinstein accusations, in Louis CK’s case, the network FX made a move within a day.
While the current allegations against Lasseter are not as extreme as the ones CK admitted to, they nevertheless present a tremendous problem for Disney and Pixar. Not only would it be difficult to restore a culture of trust given the long-standing nature of the allegations, but Lasseter has also become an increasingly visible surrogate for both Pixar and Disney, frequently introducing the company’s animated films at events like the annual D23 Expo convention. That fact alone practically ensures that the Lasseter news will engulf coverage of Pixar’s latest film, Coco, which is scheduled to open on Thanksgiving. There have been no announcements about formal investigations into Lasseter’s behavior.


I’m driving a new 2017 Mercedes E300 today, and it comes with a built-in wireless charger, which is a nice feature for a $60,000 car. Now, let’s overlook the poor placement of the charger — buried behind the cupholders, for some reason — and get to the main issue.
If you have an iPhone 8 or iPhone X, which come with wireless charging, you can charge your phone on the pad, unlike previous iPhones. But there is a major flaw that keeps driving me crazy, and it’s Apple Pay. Since the charging pad also has NFC, the iPhone thinks you’re trying to pay for something and automatically activates Apple Pay every time you put the phone down to charge.
Seems like a small issue, right? Well if you’re playing music in your car from your phone, as one might do, activating Apple Pay will automatically pause the music, because I guess Apple thinks you should be polite to the cashier (you should).
Back to the main point: in a 2017 Mercedes E-Class that starts at $52,000, you cannot put your phone down on a wireless charger without activating Apple Pay and pausing your music.
So, how will it fix this? Apple sure as hell isn’t going to change the way Apple Pay functions, and Mercedes seemingly doesn’t have a way to deactivate NFC. Your options are either to reach behind the cupholder to where the phone sits and deactivate Apple Pay and hit play on your music every time you put your phone on the charger without crashing, or use an old-fashioned wired charger to keep your iPhone topped off.
Neither of these options is fun.


Next month is gonna be a big one at the FCC. In addition to getting rid of net neutrality, the commission will also vote on a proposal to begin reconsidering the broadcast ownership cap. Depending on what the commission decides next year, the outcome could lead to far more consolidation of local TV stations, resulting in fewer independent voices.
The FCC has something called the “national TV ownership rule” that prevents one company from owning broadcast TV stations that reach more than 39 percent of US households. Due to some loopholes (that are at least somewhat related to the 1989 Weird Al film UHF), broadcasters can already reach more than 39 percent of households, though it requires some careful purchasing. The commission seems ready to do away with this loophole and instead just raise the cap — if not get rid of it altogether.
FCC chairman Ajit Pai has been skeptical of the need for an ownership cap in 2017. While the cap helps protect independent voices in broadcast TV, Pai has argued that it makes no sense when these companies are competing with nationwide cable networks and global online news sources. The internet enables everyone to reach a huge audience, the argument goes, so a rule like this is no longer necessary.
But there’s still been concern, since broadcast TV is a limited resource and serves different audiences. In particular, focus has been on the broadcasting giant Sinclair, which is butting up against the media cap and is looking to continue expanding. The company has been criticized for forcing its affiliates to play wildly slanted right-wing segments, and it looks like Sinclair is nearing in on becoming another conservative media giant.
Whether that happens will depend in part on the outcome of the FCC’s forthcoming proposal. It’ll be voted on at the commission’s December 14th meeting, after which the public will be able to comment for several months. The commission will release a final proposal sometime next year.


John Lasseter, chief creative officer of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, is taking a six-month leave of absence in the wake of complaints about his professional behavior. According to The Hollywood Reporter, Lasseter announced the news in a staff memo on Tuesday, where he admitted to “missteps” and behavior that left employees feeling “disrespected or uncomfortable.”
“I’ve recently had a number of difficult conversations that have been very painful for me. It’s never easy to face your missteps, but it’s the only way to learn from them,” he writes in the memo. “Collectively, you mean the world to me, and I deeply apologize if I have let you down. I especially want to apologize to anyone who has ever been on the receiving end of an unwanted hug or any other gesture they felt crossed the line in any way, shape, or form. No matter how benign my intent, everyone has the right to set their own boundaries and have them respected.”
Lasseter has been a creative force in animation since the 1980s. As an early employee of Pixar, he directed the first two Toy Story films, and he’s been a core member of the company’s creative brain trust since the company was founded. When Disney bought Pixar in 2006, Lasseter became chief creative officer of both Pixar and Disney Animation. After taking on dual duties, he has overseen a creative revitalization of Disney’s animated output, leading to films like Frozen, Tangled, and Wreck-It Ralph.
But a second story from the Reporter details complaints about Lasseter’s behavior toward women going back more than a decade. Lasseter is described as an enthusiastic hugger, but the allegations go far beyond that. According to the story, women in the company resorted to a move they nicknamed “The Lasseter” to prevent the executive from putting his hands on their legs without consent, while another source stated photos from company events had been strategically cropped to remove evidence of impropriety.
The story also alleges that writer and actor Rashida Jones — who co-wrote the upcoming Toy Story 4 — left the project after the executive made an unwanted advance toward her.
The news comes as Hollywood is undergoing a massive shake-up in the wake of sexual assault allegations against producer Harvey Weinstein. In the weeks since that story first broke, Amazon Studios head Roy Price was forced to step down after allegations about his behavior became public, while actor Kevin Spacey was fired from House of Cards and dropped by his representatives after multiple stories alleged sexual assault and other behavior. Comedian Louis CK also admitted to long-standing rumors about his treatment of women, leading to the canceled release of his latest film and the collapse of deals with FX and HBO.
The throughline in most of these stories — other then powerful men abusing that power — is the entertainment industry’s quick-snap reaction to cut ties with the individuals in question. (Director Ridley Scott even went so far as to recast Spacey’s role in a movie that was already shot, and is set to come out next month.) While it’s taken some time for that momentum to build in the wake of the original Weinstein accusations, in Louis CK’s case, the network FX made a move within a day.
While the current allegations against Lasseter are not as extreme as the ones CK admitted to, they nevertheless present a tremendous problem for Disney and Pixar. Not only would it be difficult to restore a culture of trust given the long-standing nature of the allegations, but Lasseter has also become an increasingly visible surrogate for both Pixar and Disney, frequently introducing the company’s animated films at events like the annual D23 Expo convention. That fact alone practically ensures that the Lasseter news will engulf coverage of Pixar’s latest film, Coco, which is scheduled to open on Thanksgiving. There have been no announcements about formal investigations into Lasseter’s behavior.


I’m driving a new 2017 Mercedes E300 today, and it comes with a built-in wireless charger, which is a nice feature for a $60,000 car. Now, let’s overlook the poor placement of the charger — buried behind the cupholders, for some reason — and get to the main issue.
If you have an iPhone 8 or iPhone X, which come with wireless charging, you can charge your phone on the pad, unlike previous iPhones. But there is a major flaw that keeps driving me crazy, and it’s Apple Pay. Since the charging pad also has NFC, the iPhone thinks you’re trying to pay for something and automatically activates Apple Pay every time you put the phone down to charge.
Seems like a small issue, right? Well if you’re playing music in your car from your phone, as one might do, activating Apple Pay will automatically pause the music, because I guess Apple thinks you should be polite to the cashier (you should).
Back to the main point: in a 2017 Mercedes E-Class that starts at $52,000, you cannot put your phone down on a wireless charger without activating Apple Pay and pausing your music.
So, how will it fix this? Apple sure as hell isn’t going to change the way Apple Pay functions, and Mercedes seemingly doesn’t have a way to deactivate NFC. Your options are either to reach behind the cupholder to where the phone sits and deactivate Apple Pay and hit play on your music every time you put your phone on the charger without crashing, or use an old-fashioned wired charger to keep your iPhone topped off.
Neither of these options is fun.


Next month is gonna be a big one at the FCC. In addition to getting rid of net neutrality, the commission will also vote on a proposal to begin reconsidering the broadcast ownership cap. Depending on what the commission decides next year, the outcome could lead to far more consolidation of local TV stations, resulting in fewer independent voices.
The FCC has something called the “national TV ownership rule” that prevents one company from owning broadcast TV stations that reach more than 39 percent of US households. Due to some loopholes (that are at least somewhat related to the 1989 Weird Al film UHF), broadcasters can already reach more than 39 percent of households, though it requires some careful purchasing. The commission seems ready to do away with this loophole and instead just raise the cap — if not get rid of it altogether.
FCC chairman Ajit Pai has been skeptical of the need for an ownership cap in 2017. While the cap helps protect independent voices in broadcast TV, Pai has argued that it makes no sense when these companies are competing with nationwide cable networks and global online news sources. The internet enables everyone to reach a huge audience, the argument goes, so a rule like this is no longer necessary.
But there’s still been concern, since broadcast TV is a limited resource and serves different audiences. In particular, focus has been on the broadcasting giant Sinclair, which is butting up against the media cap and is looking to continue expanding. The company has been criticized for forcing its affiliates to play wildly slanted right-wing segments, and it looks like Sinclair is nearing in on becoming another conservative media giant.
Whether that happens will depend in part on the outcome of the FCC’s forthcoming proposal. It’ll be voted on at the commission’s December 14th meeting, after which the public will be able to comment for several months. The commission will release a final proposal sometime next year.


New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman revealed today that his office has been investigating a flood of spam FCC comments that impersonated real people, and criticized the FCC for withholding useful information. In an open letter addressing FCC chairman Ajit Pai, Schneiderman writes that his office has spent six months investigating who submitted hundreds of thousands of identical anti-net neutrality comments under the names and addresses of unwitting Americans. But he says that the FCC has ignored multiple requests for logs and records, offering “no substantive response.”
Schneiderman argues that the fake comments constitute illegal impersonation and misuse of a person’s identity, and that “tens of thousands” of New York state residents are potentially affected. “The perpetrator or perpetrators attacked what is supposed to be an open public process by attempting to drown out and negate the views of the real people, businesses, and others who honestly commented on this important issue,” he writes. Using real names to do it is “akin to identity theft, and it happened on a massive scale.”
He says that his office first contacted the FCC in June, and has made at least nine requests between June and November, seeking confidential access to records related to the FCC’s comment system. “Yet we have received no substantive response to our investigative requests. None,” he says. Schneiderman didn’t specify how exactly these records might help the investigation, but he says they are “necessary” to figure out who was behind the comments.
Schneiderman’s statement was posted soon after the FCC announced plans to repeal net neutrality rules next month, weakening or possibly eliminating rules that stop ISPs from selectively slowing or blocking web traffic. He says this letter isn’t meant to be a political statement about these rules, but it implies that the FCC made its decision based on invalid information. “The process the FCC has employed to consider potentially sweeping alterations to current net neutrality rules has been corrupted by the fraudulent use of Americans’ identities  —  and the FCC has been unwilling to assist my office in our efforts to investigate this unlawful activity,” he writes.
People whose names were attached to fake comments have previously urged the FCC to run its own investigation into the comments, and Sen. Frank Pallone (D-NJ) requested an FBI probe in June. But the FCC has stayed generally quiet about the issue, and the agency didn’t immediately return an emailed request for comment about this latest news.
Public comments played a huge role in helping pass strong net neutrality rules in 2015, but this time around, the process was a mess. Many comments were made under assumed names or disposable email addresses, and the system briefly crashed in early May, when the FCC claimed it had been hit with a denial-of-service attack. The agency also said that it wasn’t basing its proposal on the quantity of submissions supporting or opposing net neutrality — which means it may well argue that the fake comments are a moot point.


Following a test this past summer and a wider rollout in late October that allowed Instagram friends to live stream together, the service today is adding the option for you to request to join a pal’s live stream, just in case you believe your presence is required.
Instagram’s live mode works a lot like Periscope, which allows people to watch a user’s live stream and send comments or hearts. Today’s update allows the live streamer to add a request button on their page so friends can request to jump in on their solo stream if they didn’t invite anyone to go live with them from the start. Once accepted, the stream divides in half (either horizontally or vertically, based on the orientation you’re watching the stream).
New! When watching a friend’s live video, tap the “Request” button to let them know you'd like to join in. pic.twitter.com/Xb6S969YJU
Currently, Instagram only supports multi-user live-streaming between two friends, so someone you do not follow back cannot request to be in your stream. But unless you really want someone to join you, the requests might get annoying, so turn the button on at your discretion.


The FTC is reportedly looking into TripAdvisor after the company censored reports of rape and sexual harassment at resorts around the world. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports that in a letter sent last week to Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), the FTC said:
“When consumers are unable to post honest reviews about a business, it can harm other consumers whose abilities to make well-informed purchase decisions are hindered and harm businesses that work hard to earn positive reviews.”
TripAdvisor issued a statement to The Verge today saying:
"We are not aware of an inquiry by the Federal Trade Commission nor have they contacted us.  TripAdvisor is a global user-generated content platform that enables travelers to post positive and negative reviews and forum content about their experiences.  We receive 290 pieces of content a minute and need to ensure that information posted on our site adheres to our content guidelines to ensure the integrity of these posts.  We stand by our publishing guidelines and how they are applied.
The FTC declined to comment on TripAdvisor.
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel first broke the TripAdvisor story a few weeks ago, and since then, the vacation-planning company introduced a badge system to flag hotels that had negative reviews published about them, particularly those that involved assault, harassment, or discrimination. Those badges only last for three months at a time. The company also clarified that its "family friendly" language requirement no longer exists and that all previously deleted posts were reinstated.
Still, the Wisconsin-based newspaper says dozens of additional people have come forward since the initial report, claiming that their forum posts were also censored.
Update 11/21 4:08 PM ET: Updated to include TripAdvisor's statement.
Correction 11/22 12:47 PM ET: Updated to change the headline. We previously said the FTC was investigating the company, but a formal investigation has not been announced. The agency has also not issued any official statement on whether or not it's looking into the trip-planning company.


After an appearance in David Ayer’s Suicide Squad last year, DC fan favorite Harley Quinn will be returning to her roots in her own 26-episode animated series.
The currently untitled show will be featured exclusively on the digital streaming service DC is launching next year. That makes it the third series announced thus far, alongside the live-action show Titans, and the animated Young Justice: Outsiders. The series will be headed by Justin Halpern, Patrick Schumacker, and Dean Lorey, who previously collaborated on DC’s superhero comedy Powerless.
The new Harley Quinn series will be loosely inspired by the current comics, where the character has cut ties with the Joker and is roughing it in Gotham City alongside her bestie Poison Ivy and other familiar DC characters. Over the last four years, Jimmy Palmiotti and Amanda Conner have given Quinn a more independent vibe in the comics, far from the character’s origins as the Joker’s sidekick in Batman: The Animated Series. (Conner actually drew the above concept art, though DC points out in its press release that the final show may not end up taking this same visual direction.)
According to Deadline, executives hope to bring in Margot Robbie, who played Quinn in Suicide Squad, to voice the character in the new series. It’s all part of a full-court press to take advantage of the character’s popularity as much as possible. Along with the new animated series, there is also an upcoming animated Batman & Harley Quinn movie and a live-action film that will detail the Joker and Quinn’s love affair. Hopefully, any of the projects that Robbie takes part in will sidestep the scathing critiques that Suicide Squad itself earned when it came out last year.



One year after a ProPublica investigation found that Facebook lets housing advertisers exclude users by race, a separate follow-up investigation found that the social network has barely changed any of its practices. The new story, published today, details how ProPublica was able to purchase targeted housing ads that excluded groups like African-Americans, Jews, and Spanish speakers, among others. Such ad targeting for housing is a violation of the federal Fair Housing Act, because of long-standing discriminatory practices in the real estate and rental industries that disadvantage black, Asian, and Latino renters.
Facebook, which just earlier this month launched a revamped housing category on its new Craigslist competitor, owned up to its mistake in a statement from Ami Vora, a vice president of product management at Facebook, given to the The Verge:
This was a failure in our enforcement and we’re disappointed that we fell short of our commitments. Earlier this year, we added additional safeguards to protect against the abuse of our multicultural affinity tools to facilitate discrimination in housing, credit and employment. The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure. Our safeguards, including additional human reviewers and machine learning systems have successfully flagged millions of ads and their effectiveness has improved over time. Tens of thousands of advertisers have confirmed compliance with our tighter restrictions, including that they follow all applicable laws. We don’t want Facebook to be used for discrimination and will continue to strengthen our policies, hire more ad reviewers, and refine machine learning tools to help detect violations. Our systems continue to improve but we can do better. While we currently require compliance notifications of advertisers that seek to place ads for housing, employment, and credit opportunities, we will extend this requirement to all advertisers who choose to exclude some users from seeing their ads on Facebook to also confirm their compliance with our anti-discrimination policies — and the law.
The investigation is just the latest in a series of reports detailing how Facebook’s algorithm-driven ad network is susceptible to bad actors, including foreign governments and propaganda-peddling fake news machines.
But the investigation found that the company, despite claims to update policies and increase enforcement of its rules, did very little to substantially alter how housing ads are placed on Facebook. The company said all the way back in November of last year, after ProPublica’s initial report, that it would no longer allow ads for housing, credit, or employment that target based on “ethnic affinity,” the loose term Facebook uses to identify race-related profiles built using user-reported information.
In February of this year, Facebook updated its ad policies further to “make it clear that advertisers may not discriminate against people based on personal attributes such as race, ethnicity, color, national origin, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, family status, disability, medical or genetic condition.” Yet ProPublica found that you are still able to do just that, despite Facebook’s new algorithmic review system that is supposedly designed to flag these ads. Nearly all of the test ads, which were immediately removed following the investigation, were approved within minutes.
In fact, the only meaningful change Facebook appears to have made is a cosmetic one: the company renamed “ethnic affinity” to “multicultural affinity” and relocated the category under “Behaviors.” (Previously it was listed under “Demographics.”) In other words, Facebook simply reframed the concept of race as something its user exhibit as a behavioral trait, which doesn’t seem to have a meaningful distinction from what it used to describe.
The company has historically gone to great lengths to avoid saying advertisers can target based on race, using euphemisms like ethnic affinity. Still, advertisers are widely able to read between the lines, like when Universal Pictures marketed different Straight Outta Compton trailers last year for the “white” and the “African-American” ethnic affinities.
While it’s not illegal to perform this type of targeting for films — companies to do so all the time on television — housing is a different story. The Fair Housing Act prohibits discriminatory housing ads alongside those for employment and credit. However, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, now headed by Trump-appointed Ben Carson, has turned a blind eye toward Facebook, closing its inquiry into the company’s practices. That means it’s largely up to investigative journalists, watch dogs, and advocacy groups to hold the company accountable.
In one particularly egregious example, ProPublica was even able to go so far as drafting housing ads based on New York City ZIP codes, cross-checking the neighborhoods with US Census data to ensure the ad would be excluding predominantly black and Hispanic neighborhoods. The discriminatory practice is known as redlining and it stretches back decades in America, depriving immigrant and minority communities of vital services like access to banking, health care, and food. Facebook approved the ads immediately, ProPublica says.
Update at 5:37PM ET, 11/21: Added full statement from Facebook.


Facebook Messenger has gotten a bunch of upgrades over the past year, and now you can add the ability to send higher-resolution photos to the list. Starting today, Facebook is rolling out the ability to send “4K” photos on the Messenger app in the US, Canada, France, Australia, the UK, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, and South Korea. The company says it will also be introduced to additional countries in the coming weeks.
Previously, Facebook says Messenger only supported "2K" photo uploads. But with the update, the app will now support a maximum resolution of up to 4096 x 4096 pixels. It gives a few examples to point out the difference in clarity and sharpness. On the left is how Messenger would previously send a photo, and on the right is with the higher resolution. When zoomed in, the photos’ edges are definitely crisper, and gradients appear smoother. You’ll have to make sure you’re updated to the latest version of the Messenger app in order to send and share photos in the newly supported resolution.


ProtonMail, a secure email service, is launching an encrypted contacts manager today for its users. The manager provides "zero access" to contacts, ProtonMail says, meaning the company can't view what users have saved. It also features a digital signature that should prevent anyone from compromising or tampering with contact details.
ProtonMail says attackers could compromise a user's communications by editing a contact's email address or phone number without that user realizing. The verified signature prevents against this by requiring a private key to make edits. This key is also integral to the company's method for securing contacts in general. Every email account has a unique private and public key pair for contacts. That private key comes from a form of each user's password, which the company doesn't know. Then, the encrypted contact fields are encrypted with each user's public key, meaning it can only be decrypted with the corresponding private key. The two keys work in tandem.
The verification looks like this:
This contact storing strategy differs from Apple and Google, which can access contacts stored in the cloud. ProtonMail says it designed the feature for journalists who want to protect their sources.


About 50 years ago, the sugar industry stopped funding research that began to show something they wanted to hide: that eating lots of sugar is linked to heart disease. A new study exposes the sugar industry’s decades-old effort to stifle that critical research.
Researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, recently analyzed historical documents regarding a rat study called Project 259 that was launched in 1968. The study was funded by a sugar industry trade group called the International Sugar Research Foundation, or ISRF, and conducted by W. F. R. Pover at the University of Birmingham. When the preliminary findings from that study began to show that eating lots of sugar might be associated with heart disease, and even bladder cancer, the ISRF pulled the plug on the research. Without additional funding, the study was terminated and the results were never published, according to a study published today in PLOS Biology.
Last year, based on a review of internal industry documents, the same group of UCSF researchers showed that in the 1960s, ISRF — then known as the Sugar Research Foundation — also paid Harvard scientists to obscure the relationship between sugar and heart disease, pushing them to blame saturated fats instead. Today’s study adds to the evidence that the sugar industry helped steer public discourse away from the potentially negative health effects of consuming added sugars through its research funding.
“Had [Project 259] actually been completed and published, it would have advanced the general scientific discussion about the sugar heart disease link,” says study co-author Stanton Glantz, a professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco. “And they prevented that from happening. It helped to derail this issue for quite a long time.”
Researching the health effects of certain foods is critical because it helps shape the federal government’s dietary guidelines, which recommend how Americans should eat in order to prevent disease. But nutrition science is sometimes influenced by industry groups that have a stake in the results: in 2015, The New York Times reported that Coca-Cola had paid scientists to distract the public from the connection between sugary drinks and obesity. Last year, The Associated Press showed that candy makers also fund bogus research: one study showed that kids who eat candy weigh less than those who don’t.
Industry-funded research often shows results that are in line with the sponsors’ interests, says Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition, food studies, and public health at New York University, who’s writing a book on the issue. That’s also true for pharmaceutical companies, she says, which are known for suppressing research that shows unfavorable results.
The study in question investigated the relationship between sugars and certain blood fats called triglycerides, which increase the risk of heart disease. The preliminary results from the research, called Project 259, suggested that rats on a high-sugar diet, instead of a starch diet, had higher levels of triglycerides. The rats that ate lots of sugar also had higher levels of an enzyme called beta-glucuronidase in their urine, which at the time was thought to be potentially linked to bladder cancer, says study co-author Cristin Kearns, an assistant professor at the UCSF School of Dentistry.
The findings were described as “one of the first demonstrations of a biological difference between sucrose and starch fed rats,” according to the internal documents reviewed by the UCSF researchers. But after funding the research for 27 months, the International Sugar Research Foundation discontinued their support. So the study was never completed and the results were never published, according to the UCSF researchers. “Why would they want to fund research that would be against their interests? There’s no reason why they’d want to do that,” Nestle tells The Verge.
In a statement to The Verge, the Sugar Association — as the ISRF is known today — criticized the PLOS Biology paper, calling it not a study but a “perspective.” Project 259 was ended because it was “significantly delayed” and it was “consequently over budget,” the statement says. It adds: “Throughout its history, the Sugar Association has embraced scientific research and innovation in an attempt to learn as much as possible about sugar, diet, and health.”
It’s impossible to say whether Project 259’s early findings would have been confirmed. Today, we know that eating lots of added sugars — in sodas, sweets, and cereal for instance — increases your risk of dying of heart disease. However, there is “still no good evidence that sugar is a cause of bladder or other cancer in humans,” says Walter Willett, a professor of epidemiology and nutrition at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, who did not take part in the research, in an email to The Verge. “This rodent research is very indirectly related to human cancer, and it would not have appreciably influenced conclusions then or now.”
Still, at the time, the preliminary results were interesting enough to warrant more research. But the sugar industry pulled the plug on the study because it didn’t like where the results were going, the UCSF researchers claim.
Nestle agrees: “This wasn't about science. This was about marketing,” she says. “If it were about science, they would have pursued it.”
Update November 22nd, 2017 09:18AM ET: The story has been updated to include a statement from the Sugar Association.



Colorado has ordered Uber to pay a fine of $8.9 million for allowing individuals with disqualifying criminal or motor vehicle offenses, or without valid licenses, to drive for the company, Reuters reports. The company blamed an “error” in its background check process for the bad drivers.
The Colorado Public Utilities Commission (PUC) said its probe found violations that included 12 drivers with felony convictions, 17 drivers with major moving-vehicle violations, and three drivers with a type of driver’s license required only after recent drunk-driving convictions. The commission said that Uber’s background checks also failed to identify a number of aliases used by their drivers, including one driver who was “a convicted felon, habitual offender, and at one point in his past had escaped from the Colorado Department of Corrections.” Nevertheless, after he was released from prison, he became a driver for Uber. The company was cited $2,500 a day for each day a disqualified driver was found to have worked.
“We have determined that Uber had background check information that should have disqualified these drivers under the law, but they were allowed to drive anyway,” Doug Dean, the commission’s director, said in a statement. “PUC staff was able to find felony convictions that the company’s background checks failed to find, demonstrating that the company’s background checks are inadequate. In other cases, we could not confirm criminal background checks were even conducted by Uber.”
In a statement, Uber says it recently discovered a “process error that was inconsistent with Colorado’s ride-sharing regulations and proactively notified the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC). This error affected a small number of drivers and we immediately took corrective action. Per Uber safety policies and Colorado state regulations, drivers with access to the Uber app must undergo a nationally accredited third-party background screening. We will continue to work closely with the CPUC to enable access to safe, reliable transportation options for all Coloradans.” Asked if the company planned on paying the fine, a spokesperson said they were “evaluating our options.”
This isn’t the first time Uber has been reprimanded for its security policies. In 2014, the cities of Los Angeles and San Francisco sued the ride-hailing company for claiming its background checks were the most thorough in the industry, despite the fact that Uber does not take drivers' fingerprints like many taxi companies do. Uber paid $10 million to settle the suit. A new lawsuit seeking class action status was filed recently by two anonymous women who claim to have been raped or assaulted by Uber drivers. Their lawsuit is seeking to force Uber to implement stricter background check policies.
Fingerprinting drivers is a common point of contention between Uber and local governments. The company left out of Austin, Texas, after city officials there passed a law requiring finger printing for drivers. (Uber has since returned after a state law was passed voiding the requirement.)
In response to the Colorado decision, Uber notes that the state’s laws governing app-based ride-hailing services are uniquely strict. According to current Colorado law, a driver convicted of a felony for nonviolent crimes, such as trespassing or forgery, in their lifetime would not be eligible to drive for Uber in Colorado.


Using DJI’s Osmo stabilizer with Moment’s modular system to attach better lenses to your smartphone seems like it would be a match made in heaven — except for one small problem. The weight of the Moment lenses combined with Apple’s larger phones, like the 6 Plus and 7 Plus are too heavy for the Osmo to work properly. And even with smaller models, like the iPhone 7 or iPhone X, the Osmo’s motors have to work harder to keep things leveled out, which in turn drains the battery faster.
Fortunately, Moment has a solution in the form of some official counterweights that are made out of stainless steel and designed to perfectly counterbalance the extra weight of Moment’s lenses on the Osmo. Moment is making two sizes for the counterweight: a 50g option for smaller phones like the iPhone 6, 7, 8, X, the Google Pixel, and Galaxy S8, and a heavier 100g size for bigger devices like the iPhone 7 Plus and 8 Plus, Pixel 2 XL, and Galaxy S8 Plus.
It’s not Moment’s first crack at fixing this issue. Earlier this year, the company posted a DIY solution to the problem, showing users how to manually stick 45 to 55 grams of metal to one side of the the Osmo to balance out the extra weight from the combined Plus-size iPhones and the Moment lenses. Obviously, sticking a chunk of metal to the side of your Osmo with double-sided tape isn’t really a great long-term solution, so it’s nice to see Moment stepping up to the plate with a more polished fix.
The counterweights aren’t cheap, however: Moment is charging $39.99 for each, which is definitely more expensive than taping a stack of quarters to your Osmo. But if you’re looking for a simple, long-term fix, it might be worth it. The official Moment counterweights are available for preorder now at a discounted price of $31.99, and are expected to ship around December 11th.


YouTube has returned to the Amazon Echo Show nearly two months after a Google and Amazon dispute saw the internet search giant pull support for its popular video service from Amazon’s hardware, according to a report from VoiceBot.ai.
Along with the return of YouTube, Amazon is also expanding video services on the Echo Show as well, with the company launching support forVimeo and Dailymotion. In a statement to The Verge, an Amazon spokesperson commented that “We’re excited to offer customers the capability to watch even more video content from sources such as Vimeo, YouTube, and Dailymotion on Echo Show. More video sources will be added over time.”
According to Google, Amazon’s original implementation of YouTube on the Echo Show “violates our terms of service, creating a broken user experience.” It seems that Amazon and Google have been able to reconcile that problem, with a new version of YouTube that has a dramatically changed interface that much more closely resembles the desktop version of the site than Amazon’s own Echo-style integration. VoiceBot.ai has posted a video of the updated UI, which is embedded below, but if you’ve ever used YouTube on a computer or tablet, you’ve more or less already know what it’s like.
That updated version of YouTube on the Echo Show also means that features like subscriptions, next video recommendations, and autoplay — which my colleague Dieter Bohn pointed out as missing features in Amazon’s original app that Google might view as important for future growth — are now back in play on the Echo Show. But they come at the cost of the far more user-friendly and voice control-optimized software that Amazon had originally designed.
Based on a tweet from The Verge editor Dan Seifert, it seems that the new YouTube integration only halfheartedly supports voice controls at all, with the device loading the new interface slowly, and even then only loading a windowed version of the video. The Echo Show still does support full-screen YouTube video, but users will need to use a separate “Alexa, zoom in” command to display videos like that.
THIS IS INSANITY pic.twitter.com/dYbi5w7pdD
Update November 21st, 4:25pm: Added updated information about how voice controls appear to work on the new update, and clarified language with how the app works now in regard to full screen video.


Microsoft’s 15-inch Surface Book 2 laptop suffers from battery drain during heavy gaming or GPU usage, a problem The Verge first identified during our review of the device last week. While plugged into the supplied charger, the battery on the base of the device will drain during certain games if the power settings are set to max performance to fully utilize the power of the hardware.
“Surface Book 2 was designed to deliver unmatched power and performance for anyone who needs a powerful machine to work and create, making it a great option for STEM professionals (designers, developers, engineers),” explains a Microsoft spokesperson in a statement to The Verge. “The Surface Book 2 Power Mode Slider is provided as a means to give the user control over the range of performance and battery life. In some intense, prolonged gaming scenarios with Power Mode Slider set to ‘best performance’ the battery may discharge while connected to the power supply provided in-box with Surface Book 2. However, through power management design, the battery will never drain entirely, ensuring that users are able to keep working, creating or gaming.”
The amount of drain varies between games, screen resolution, and maximum load on the GPU. We’re still carrying out additional tests on a new Surface Book 2 unit after a defective power supply caused additional issues on our review unit. The max performance setting is required to play games, as during my tests I’ve found that performance rapidly drops during the other battery-efficient settings.
It appears that the Surface Book 2 has been designed to supply 95 watts of power from the charger to the device, which isn’t enough to run the processor, graphics card, and all other hardware components at max. The processor alone draws 25 watts in high-power mode, and will even burst to 35 watts. Microsoft’s Nvidia GTX 1060 variant draws between 70 and 80 watts, bringing the total to 105 watts at peak. Microsoft works around this by aggressively throttling the Nvidia chip during games at “better performance” and “best battery” settings.
I’ve found the throttling makes the device unusable for gaming after less than 10 minutes in those battery efficient modes, dropping the experience from 60fps to 30fps in some titles. Other games will run fine in these modes, but Destiny 2 is particularly grueling. The max performance setting will drain power even when plugged into the wall, and I’ve found it’s at least 10 percent an hour or more depending on the game and load.
We’re still carrying out additional tests to update our Surface Book 2 review, but it’s clear that the device is not designed to be a gaming laptop. Microsoft has made some trade-offs in its design to avoid a heavy power brick and reaching the maximum 120 watts that the Surface Connector currently supports. Those trade-offs mean you’re not going to be able to play games at high resolution with high settings without some form of battery drain or throttling of the graphics card performance even when you’re plugged into the wall.


Android phones gather your location data and send it to Google, even if you’ve turned off location services and don’t have a SIM card, Quartz reported today.
The term “location services” oftentimes refers to exact GPS data for app usage, such as Google Maps finding your best commute route, or Uber figuring out exactly where you’re standing to let drivers know your pickup point. Quartz’s report details a practice in which Google was able to track user locations by triangulating which cell towers were currently servicing a specific device.
Since January, all kinds of Android phones and tablets have been collecting the addresses of nearby cellular towers and sending the encrypted data to Google’s push notifications and messaging management system when connected to the internet. It’s a practice that customers can’t opt out of — even if their phones are factory reset.
A Google spokesperson said in a statement to The Verge that all modern Android phones use a network sync system that requires mobile country codes and mobile network codes, so tower info called “Cell ID” codes were considered an “additional signal to further improve the speed and performance of message delivery.” Google ultimately discarded the cell tower data and didn’t go through with the original plan.
A source familiar with the matter stated that Google added the cell tower data-collecting feature to improve its Firebase Cloud Messaging, where devices have to ping the server at regular intervals in order to receive messages promptly.
The findings are surprising, given that cell tower data is usually held by carrier networks and only shared with outside companies under extreme circumstances. Through Google’s practices this year, an individual’s particular location within a quarter-mile radius or less could be determined with the addresses of multiple cell towers. This has particular security implications for individuals who wish to not be tracked, meaning that the safest way to avoid being tracked at all is probably to stick to burner phones. It could also create a bigger target for hackers looking to obtain personal information.
An update that removes this cell tower data-collecting feature will roll out by the end of this month, according to Google. Google’s terms of service, at the time of publish, still vaguely state, “When you use Google services, we may collect and process information about your actual location” using “various technologies... including IP address, GPS, and other sensors that may, for example, provide Google with information on nearby devices, Wi-Fi access points and cell tower.” Google does offer details on how to control Google’s location access points. But as shown by its ToS, the company could admittedly do a better job of making this clearer and simpler for its general consumers.


The Federal Communications Commission will vote to put an end to its net neutrality rules next month, commission chairman Ajit Pai said today. The proposal will reverse the Title II classification of internet providers, which allows the agency to put strict limits on their behavior, and replace it with the old “information service” classification, which a federal court has ruled is less comprehensive, weakening any protections that might replace those currently in force.
That is, if the agency even wanted to replace them: it sounds like this proposal will leave the internet without any sort of net neutrality protections. The full text of the order — a final revision of the the proposal that received 22 million comments over the summer — will be released tomorrow. For now, we only have a summary from Pai.
“Under my proposal, the federal government will stop micromanaging the internet,” Pai said in a statement emailed to reporters. “Instead, the FCC would simply require internet service providers to be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them and entrepreneurs and other small businesses can have the technical information they need to innovate.”
The FCC’s goal is to set up the Federal Trade Commission to handle all anti-competitive disputes, and the idea is that if ISPs violate their stated policies, the FTC will be able to take action.
This is a puzzling plan and one that the FCC has to be well aware will not offer any legitimate consumer protections. Companies’ terms of service and related policies aren’t meant to protect consumers, they’re meant to protect companies — and they can change at a moment’s notice. While it’s entirely possible that a company could violate its own policies and get in trouble with the FTC, a company could also just promise open internet protections until it doesn’t feel like following them any more, rewrite its policies, and then implement new and potentially discriminatory practices.
And while this all might work out if American consumers had several internet providers to choose from at home, so that they could switch away from a bad provider and over to one that values an open internet, that’s far from the case. Less than a quarter of the country has two or more home internet providers that offer basic broadband speeds — so if you don’t like what your provider is doing, you’re stuck.
Republicans have argued that the FTC is the expert agency on anti-competitive practices and ought to be in charge here, but that obfuscates what’s really happening. The FTC is a single agency tasked with protecting consumers across a wide range of industries — it simply doesn’t have the focus of the FCC to narrow in on just internet providers. Nor does the FTC have the ability to proactively set tough rules. The FTC can only establish guidelines, which gives internet providers a lot more leeway to experiment with practices that work to their own advantage.
In reality, the FCC is trying and will likely succeed in giving internet providers the leeway to try whatever policies they want over their own networks. Pai’s argument has been that by giving internet providers this flexibility, they’ll be able to make money in new ways, which they could then pour back into building out their network. The theory is that they could then bring service to areas that wouldn’t be profitable enough to reach today. Since the agency wants to get more and more Americans connected, that could be considered a win — though the service may look different than what we receive today in some very important ways.
Net neutrality supporters are already fearing the worst based on what Pai has announced. Democratic FCC commissioner Mignon Clyburn said the rules (or lack thereof) “would dismantle net neutrality as we know it by giving the green light to our nation’s largest broadband providers to engage in anti-consumer practices, including blocking, slowing down traffic, and paid prioritization of online applications and services.” And fellow Democratic commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel described the same fears, saying this proposal “hands broadband providers the power to decide what voices to amplify, which sites we can visit, what connections we can make, and what communities we create. It throttles access, stalls opportunity, and censors content.”
The Internet Association, a trade group that represents web 40-some web companies including Google and Facebook, pointed to lack of ISP options as a critical flaw in the plan. “Consumers have little choice in their ISP,” the organization said, “and service providers should not be allowed to use this gatekeeper position at the point of connection to discriminate against websites and apps.” And ACLU policy analyst Jay Stanley issued a similar warning, saying, “Gutting net neutrality will have a devastating effect on free speech online. Without it, gateway corporations like Comcast, Verizon, and AT&T will have too much power to mess with the free flow of information.”
The rules go up for a vote next month, on December 14th, when they’re almost certain to pass. The FCC is majority Republican right now, and Republicans have been calling for the end of net neutrality ever since the policy was first put in place. There’s also no reason for Pai to put the measure up for a vote unless he knows it’s going to pass.
After the vote, it’ll take a month or so before the new policies appear in the Federal Register and go into place, overwriting the only net neutrality rules. That doesn’t mean everything will be all over, though: there’s certain to be a court battle — or two, or three — to follow. Net neutrality advocates will take the commission to court, likely claiming that it failed to find enough evidence to warrant overturning a decision made just two years earlier. Advocates may also say the commission ignored process, having made up its mind from the start and ignoring millions of comments from the American public in support of net neutrality.
Supporters of net neutrality have long argued that the rules are necessary to protect consumers’ from price gouging and protect small companies from anti-competitive behavior. Paid fast lanes could allow wealthy companies to pay for better service, giving them an edge over upstarts (say, YouTube vs. a brand new streaming service). A lack of discrimination rules could let internet providers like Comcast and AT&T advantage their own content — like NBC and HBO — over others’, by making it stream faster or not count toward data caps. And an absence of no blocking rules means that internet providers could stop apps that compete with their own from reaching consumers.


A new company named Buoy Labs is trying to make it easy for homeowners to monitor and cut down on their water usage. The company is releasing its debut product today, a big buoy-shaped device named Buoy, that attaches to a home’s water line and measures how much water is going through it. Using that data, Buoy can tell homeowners how much water they’re using for showers, doing dishes, cleaning laundry, and flushing toilets. It can also tell if there’s a leak.
Keri Waters, Buoy’s co-founder and CEO, lives in Santa Cruz, California, and became interested in finding ways to reduce water usage a little over two years ago, while her city and state were requiring homeowners to lessen their usage amid an ongoing drought. The drought in California, Waters says, “is a canary in the coal mine of what's coming for the whole country.”
So Waters and what’s become a team of 17 people came together to build Buoy, a device that’s meant to make cutting down your water usage a bit easier. Waters says that most people assume cutting down on water usage means taking shorter showers, but homeowners can also cut down by fixing invisible leaks or using efficient appliances, like a dishwasher, instead of doing dishes by hand with a running faucet. The EPA, Waters points out, also says that 10 percent of homes have wasteful leaks and that correcting them could cut down their water usage by 10 percent. For homes that can identify and fix a leak, it could be a big gain toward mandatory water reductions targeted at 20 percent or more.
To do all this, Buoy watches the rate at which water flows through your home’s pipes, then using a Wi-Fi connection, uploads it to the company’s servers, which use machine learning to categorize water usage. Based on flow rate, it’s supposed to be able to automatically pick apart showers, running faucets, flushed toilets, and so on. It’s even supposed to be able to tell when multiple things are being use simultaneously — say, when one person is showering and another person flushes a toilet, because it’ll identify the spike in water usage and separate it out.
In a companion app, Buoy will then be able to show a home’s water usage throughout the day and overall water usage by category. It’ll also be able to tell if there’s a leak and in certain cases even identify what the problem is. Beyond that, it’ll still be up to homeowners to figure out exactly how they want to cut down on their water usage, but getting a clear picture of what they’re currently using might make it easier to figure out the best course forward.
Buoy also offers a handful of other smart features. It can send notifications about water usage and, more importantly, about leaks. And it’ll also allow homeowners to shut off their water line in the event that it detects a leak. That could make the device useful not just for homeowners trying to reduce their daily usage, but also for people who own properties they don’t live in year round, as it could potentially stop leaks from leading to water damage.
Waters’ company isn’t the first to come up with a device like this. Over the past few years, several other companies have put out (or tried to put out) smart water monitors that connect to apps, to help people get a sense of their water usage. But those haven’t automatically characterized water usage the way that Buoy does (or they never managed to ship).
Buoy Labs, on the other hand, begins shipping its debut product today. The Buoy sells for $799 — much more expensive than other water monitors — and includes installation by a plumber. That price includes lifetime usage of Buoy’s current app features, meaning you won’t need to pay for an additional subscription. Waters says the device should be compatible with any single-family home and newer multi-family buildings — anywhere the water line is divided up per residential unit.


The Justice Department announced today that it has charged an Iranian man with this year’s hack of HBO, a high-profile security breach that led to the early release of TV episodes and scripts.
In an indictment, prosecutors allege that Behzad Mesri gained server access to HBO by hijacking employees’ accounts. With that access, according to the indictment, Mesri stole unaired episodes of shows like Ballers and Curb Your Enthusiasm, as well as scripts for other shows, including Game of Thrones. Financial documents and logins for social media accounts were also taken.
When he had the data, prosecutors allege, Mesri reached out to HBO and demanded about $5.5 million — and later $6 million — in bitcoin as a ransom for the stolen data. Mesri, who prosecutors claim has worked as a hacker for the Iranian military, faces charges of computer fraud, wire fraud, identity theft, and extortion.
The charges are the latest chapter in an embarrassing story for HBO. In August, as the hack was unfolding, the company reportedly offered a $250,000 “bug bounty” payment to the hacker, although it’s unclear whether it actually intended to pay the ransom.
“Because Mesri is in Iran, we are unfortunately unable to arrest him today,” acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York Joon Kim said during a press conference livestream today.
“While Mesri remains at large, there will be some real consequences for him,” Kim continued. “For the rest of his life, and he’s a relatively young man, he will never be able to travel outside of Iran without fear of being arrested and brought here to face these charges.”
Update November 21st, 1:00 PM ET: This article has been updated with details from the official press conference.



One of the bigger additions in Android Oreo was picture-in-picture support, but a new software feature is only as good as the applications that support it. And now, with the release of YouTube TV 1.11 on Android, you’ll be able to use Oreo’s picture-in-picture feature to keep watching shows — even while you’re doing other things that aren’t watching shows, via 9to5Google.
YouTube TV joins the fairly small pantheon of apps that support the feature, which includes the regular YouTube app, Netflix, Chrome, VLC, and Facebook. As a reminder: YouTube TV costs $35 per month, but if picture-in-picture support is a crucial feature for you, it’s so far the only game in town. Rival TV services like Hulu and Sling TV don’t support the feature on Oreo yet.
YouTube TV 1.11 is available now on the Play Store.


It’s 10AM on a dreary Saturday in a convention center so far on the west side of Manhattan it’s practically in the Hudson River. Twister, a dachshund, and Bender, a small white mutt, have already gotten into it. Bender is running around like someone’s paying him to live up to his name, tripping people with his leash, and knocking over promotional banners for a dog anxiety jacket called Calmz. Twister’s ego is bigger than his body, which means he’s hiding behind his owner’s legs and barking as hard as his chicken-wing-sized lungs will let him.
This is the first PetCon, a celebration of the dogs (and cats and pigs) who have found fame online. It’s a weekend of panels, meet-and-greets, and free Swiffer dusters, organized by The Dog Agency, a marketing and talent agency that only represents pets. The main convention hall is a big empty space with a dog run in the middle of the room, and a doggie red carpet off to the side. There are shih tzus in baby carriages, dachshunds wearing bedazzled sweaters, golden retrievers trying to maintain their composure, and pitbulls trying to get some alone time. There is a cat wearing bespoke sequined sunglasses (@sunglasscat), who flew in from LA this morning, and a two-month-old pig named Hamlet (@hamlet_the_piggy), whose owner recently quit her full-time job to focus on her pet’s career.
Ticket prices for PetCon ranged from $75 for a single-day general admission pass to $300 for a weekend VIP pass. VIP-ers got a separate entrance with early admission, a welcome breakfast, a gift bag, and a designated lounge area. Each day featured four panel discussions with several hours blocked off for “can’t-miss meet-and-greets with your favorite celebrity pets.” The panels landed in two camps: social media hacks (“Building an Instagram Community”), or PSAs about pet ownership (“Special Needs Pets” and “Why Rescue Matters”). Generally, the theme is, you have to know how to love your pets before you can monetize them.
Everyone I meet at PetCon is what you, an amateur, might call a “pet person.” To the attendees, the convention is more like a group of reunited friends, or strangers who will become friends. They’ve traveled here, dogs in tow, from upstate New York, Rhode Island, Georgia, California, and Canada, to improve their own pets’ Instagram game, to pet celeb dogs in the flesh (or fur), and to meet other people like them — people who also saw the PetCon Eventbrite page and immediately bought tickets.
Rochelle Baross, a blogger who runs the financial website The Broke Dog, wasn’t able to bring her terrier mix Henry to PetCon, so she’s carrying around a stuffed version of him in a tote bag. When I ask if she’s here to meet the celebrity dogs, she tells me, “I’m more here to meet dog people.” She isn’t alone: I watch one woman march around the room with photos of her dachshund displayed on her iPhone, ready to show them to anyone who will pay attention. Most people will. She stops to coo over another dachshund in the room (there are about 67 dachshunds here), and then tells his owner she thinks his dog could stand to lose some weight.
The first panel of the event is called “How to Create Content Like the Experts,” featuring Brittni Vega, the human force behind the very popular Harlow and Sage Instagram account (1.2 million followers); Ryan Beauchesne, who runs Crusoe the Celebrity Dachshund’s Instagram (494,000 followers); Elias Weiss Friedman, aka the dog photographer The Dogist (2.8 million followers); and Loni Edwards, founder of The Dog Agency. As a few hundred people and their dogs shuffle into the room, it feels like we’re about to meet the world’s most popular boy band.
“We love you, Loni!” someone yells as the panelists file onstage. The air is electric.
I find a seat, and a Yorkie sitting on the lap of the woman in front of me pops up over her shoulder. “He’s very excited, he wants to meet you,” she says, shoving him into my hands. The dog settles in, content to be anywhere, as long as it’s on a lap. The woman pulls a sticker out of her jacket pocket with her dog’s face on it, and a handle: @yorkieinnewyorkie. “Because he’s a Yorkie and he lives in New York,” she says.
This is the kind of event where you can put your dog in a stranger’s lap and let your attention wander. It’s assumed that if you’re at PetCon, you love animals — they’re the main attraction. So when a few rowdy dogs in the back of the room bark throughout the panel, no one expresses any annoyance. They laugh, and shake their heads: that is so like dogs.
Onstage, Vega, Beauchesene, and Friedman talk about how lucky they are to spend time with dogs that can make more money than a lot of humans (“super lucky”), and give the audience some tips on becoming Instagram-famous. (Beauchesene: “For us, it was trying to translate Crusoe’s actual personality to online.”) Then they move on to the dreaded Instagram algorithm, the first mention of which prompts a wave of nods and grim murmurs. Now that the platform’s feed is no longer chronological, and the algorithm is instead based on some secret sauce of speed and volume of engagement, getting that vaunted “organic reach” is harder than ever. Instagram engagement is a dog-eat-dog world, even if no one at PetCon would ever dare use that phrase.
“Our videos don’t hit the numbers that they used to as quickly as they used to,” Beauchesene admits. To combat the problem, he recently started a Facebook group just for Crusoe superfans. The 2,000 members act like a volunteer army, dutifully sharing whatever Crusoe shares, which helps boost engagement quickly.
Friedman is optimistic, because “dogs are very emotional for people,” and he doesn’t think that feeling is going away anytime soon. “When you photograph animals or dogs, they don’t say, ‘Oh, my nose looks big,’ or ‘Can I see the picture?’” he says. The implication, repeated several times over the course of this day, is that dogs are better than us — both at social media, and in general.
When the panel ends, the line to meet Harlow’s dachshund brother Reese (Sage actually died four years ago, but his name is a non-negotiable part of the brand) is already snaking around the main convention hall. Dana Schweer, the woman standing at the front of the line, has been there for around an hour and a half. She’s confident the wait will be worth it.
PetCon isn’t just about meeting and greeting your heroes. Some people are here to network. Julie Vastola, whose teacup pomeranian Penny (@pompenny) has about 20,000 Instagram followers, is here in search of insider tips on how to increase that number.
“I was pushing Penny way too much on my own Instagram,” Vastola says. “So we started one for her, and she got all these followers. And then there was one day where someone came up to her on the street and said, ‘Is that Pompenny?’ and we were like, ‘Oh my God, we can do this for real.’” Vastola, who works in digital marketing at a record label, says Penny has gotten a few brand deals since then, but it’s nothing compared to what the big stars are making.
Arturo Rosales hands me a business card for his hairless Xoloitzcuintli, whose name is Xolo. (Which is like naming your pet pug Pug.) On the card, Rosales describes himself as Xolo’s “representative.” Xolo’s Instagram account only had 226 followers as of the convention, but Rosales is here to spread the word; he posted photos of Xolo at PetCon 15 times throughout the day.
All day, there are celebrity dogs barking and running around and tripping me, and I keep failing to show the appropriate amount of awe when I meet them. I run into Sparkles the Shih Tzu (@sparklesthediva), who I learn has more than 50,000 Instagram followers. (Her owner tells me she’s “kinda famous.”) Sparkles is sitting on a silk cushion inside a stroller, wearing a ballerina bun that appears to be made of fake hair. I also meet Englebert (@wolfgang2242), an extremely old and rickety-looking chihuahua with 719,000 Instagram followers on an account he shares with other “senior” dogs. Englebert keeps falling asleep while adoring fans are petting him, prompting his owner to repeat a kind of mantra: “Wake up, Englebert! Wake up, Englebert!” I meet Chase the pitbull, who has an alter-ego named Carl (@sometimesCarl), and King Bentley (@kingbentleythebulldog) who doesn’t seem to care at all that his meet-and-greet line is the shortest in the room.
When the day is over, I head outside into the rain, exhausted and covered in dog hair. PetCon is one of the most persistently joyful events I’ve ever been to, and that tone is reflected in these dogs’ well-curated internet personas. Online, millions of people know the smallest details about how these pets live, or think they do. And because pets don’t have political opinions, socially conditioned bad habits, or petty streaks, they’ll never disappoint their fans.
But the darker side of this fandom is that now, even other people’s pets can breed a low-simmering jealousy: their lives are smoother, silkier, and more comforting than our own. They’re cuter than us, too, and their cuteness can translate directly into hefty salaries, if leveraged correctly. And there’s another implication here: owners who fail to leverage their pets’ cuteness to a respectable follower count, or who don’t even attempt to leverage it at all, might be seen as lacking entrepreneurial spirit, or even sufficient adoration for their pets.
And parenting a celebrity pet comes with its own set of difficulties. At one panel, Ella Bean the Dog’s owner, Hilary Sloan, reminds the audience that “Ella’s jetset lifestyle,” in which she takes luxurious bubble baths and sips hot cocoa in bed, isn’t exactly what it seems like. “I make it appear like that’s what she’s doing on Instagram, but really, I’m in meetings all day,” she says. A famous pet gives fans an escape from the grind, but that escape might not always extend to their owners.
On the sidewalk outside the convention center, I take a deep breath of industrial 11th Avenue air and sidestep three adorable French bulldogs, genetically engineered for cuteness, taking a well-deserved pee break. It’s not a very Instagram-worthy moment. But at least here, just outside of PetCon, there’s proof that even the biggest animal influencers still get to live their normal lives behind the scenes.


We've fantasized about holograms for decades only to watch the big tech companies bet mostly on VR or AR. Today, however, a startup called Looking Glass is officially unveiling its idea for a hologram viewing device: the HoloPlayer One. Looking Glass previously announced a different volumetric display, called Volume, but pivoted its efforts to HoloPlayer One when Volume didn't take off like the company hoped it would.
This new development kit and its SDK allow users to display and interact with 3D creations. The company built two versions — one that requires an HDMI hookup to a computer and another with an Intel Core i7 processor inside that works independently from a PC. The HDMI-reliant version costs $750 while the premium computer version costs $3,000.
Both models rely on the same hardware to produce the holograms. They reflect the content from a 2560 x 1600 LCD display. A depth-sensing camera, like the one used in a Microsoft Kinect or iPhone X, is mounted on top to assist with interaction. Strangely, the cheaper device is powered over USB-C while the more premium version relies on MicroUSB. People can view content so long as they're within a range of 50 degrees from the device.
Although the HoloPlayer One's screen has an acceptable resolution, users won't see a crisp, bright image on the device. Instead it's blurred and dim.
This happens because the HoloPlayer’s screen is reflected into 32 different depth planes, which gives you an effective 267 x 480 resolution for the resulting 3D image. Looking Glass created a GIF of this to give you a better idea of how the device works:
All of this is to say you might not be impressed with the actual holograms. If you're expecting a vibrant, lifelike hologram, you won't get that.
The development kit also isn't a fully formed idea in the sense that it gives developers a thing to play with and leaves it to them to find the best use case.
Looking Glass has some ideas, though. When I checked the device out a couple weeks ago, I interacted with animations, used my finger to mold a 3D sculpture, and explored a 3D CAT scan of a heart. You can see more examples of Looking Glass' work on its website. All the demos used my finger as the primary controller, although a drawing application took advantage of four built-in buttons to control when paint was released. The company has also experimented with custom remotes, like hacking a Nintendo Switch controller to use as a wand in games. I didn't find the device to be super intuitive, but maybe it would come with more practice.
All the company's applications hint at its big idea of digital images rendered without the use of smart glasses or a headset, yet none of them felt like they worked as a concept that could make the device mainstream. Maybe marketing it as a hologram memory display would do the trick. Still, I'm hoping someone stumbles upon application gold because I like the idea of 3D content everyone can witness without a headset strapped to their faces.


Foxconn has been employing students illegally to work overtime at its factories to assemble the iPhone X, reports the Financial Times. Six high school students told the publication they regularly work 11-hour days assembling the device, which is illegal for student interns under China’s laws. The students were between 17 to 19 years old, and said they were told they had to work at the factory for three months as a requirement to graduate. One student told the FT they were being forced to work there, and that the work had nothing to do with their studies. The student also claimed to have assembled up to 1,200 iPhone X cameras a day.
According to the FT, Apple and Foxconn said they had discovered cases of student interns working overtime, and they were taking remedial action. However, both companies also claimed that the students were not “forced” to work beyond the legal hourly limits. “We’ve confirmed the students worked voluntarily, were compensated and provided benefits,” Apple said. “But they should not have been allowed to work overtime.”
Similarly, Foxconn said it worked with local governments and vocational schools in organizing the internship program, but acknowledged the overtime work violated its policy that prohibits students from working more than 40 hours a week. Today’s news comes after reports of high iPhone X demand ahead of the device’s intended ship date, which were compounded with rumors of production delays due to supply problems.
At least 300,000 people assemble iPhones at Foxconn, with 3,000 students from Zhengzhou Urban Rail Transit School sent to help with the iPhone X. The six students the FT spoke to volunteered to work overtime and were paid illegally for it. Though it still doesn’t look good for Apple or Foxconn, given this context, the situation pales in comparison to the extreme conditions previously reported at Foxconn.


Since the colorful multiplayer shooter Splatoon 2 launched on the Nintendo Switch back in July, the game has maintained a fairly steady player base, according to producer Hisashi Nogami. There was some inevitable decline once the hype of the launch wore off, but since then he says that the community has remained consistent, due in large part to a steady stream of weekly updates that have added new modes, maps, weapons, and gameplay tweaks. Over the past five months, there’s only really been one point where there was a large decline in players. “It is true that when Super Mario Odyssey launched, we saw fewer than normal users logging on to play the game,” says Nogami with a laugh.
Now Nogami and his team are hoping to reignite the game once again with Splatoon 2’s biggest update so far. This week will see the addition of new maps, an increased level cap, more hairstyles and music tracks, and a whopping 140 pieces of gear, followed by a new competitive mode in December. It’s substantially larger than any previous update, and Nogami says that this deluge of content is designed in part to make Splatoon 2 more enticing ahead of the busy holiday shopping season. “We’re hoping that we’ll be able to invite in a group of new players who get the game,” he says, “or who are maybe picking up a Switch at the end of the year.”
The first part of the update will start rolling out on November 23rd, and will include the majority of the new content. The fresh gear will include some fan-favorite clothing options from the original Splatoon, as well as a wealth of cold weather-themed items like ski masks, warm jackets, and thick, cozy sweaters. “We had something in mind like offering a fall collection, or a winter collection, similar to what you see in the fashion industry in the real world,” art director Seita Inoue says of the additions.
There will also be four more hairstyle options to choose from, and a pair of new tracks to listen to during battles. The update also introduces some quality-of-life tweaks for veteran players: the level cap has been raised from 50 to 99, and you’ll now finally be able to switch up your gear without having to leave the multiplayer lobby.
Then on the 24th, Nintendo will start rolling out four new maps for the game. The first, called “MakoMart,” takes place in a giant big-box retail store, which Nogami says the team specifically made sure to get ready for Black Friday in the US. Over the following weeks, three more maps will debut, set in a museum, shopping mall, and warehouse, respectively. Nintendo will then follow that up in mid-December with the release of Splatoon 2’s fourth ranked battle mode, called “clam blitz.”
Here’s how the company describes it:
In “clam blitz,’ competing inklings are tasked with collecting clams scattered around the stage. After one is picked up, the clam follows the player. The objective is to throw the clam into the basket near the opponent’s base. The first team to score 100 points wins. But, of course, this being the fiercely competitive world of Splatoon 2, things are not as easy as they seem. The baskets are protected by a barrier, which must be destroyed first. After collecting 10 clams, the player will earn a power clam. These super-powered clams are the key to breaking the barrier, so strategy will definitely be involved in which clams are used to destroy the barrier and which are used to earn points.
Though it’s much bigger than previous updates, the new slate of content goes along with Nintendo’s goal of continually updating Splatoon 2 in order to keep players returning, a concept that dates back to the original game on the Wii U. It’s a philosophy that the company has embraced of late, with post-release updates helping extend the life of games like The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Mario Kart 8, and Arms, among others.
In the case of Splatoon 2, the team makes new content based on a variety of criteria. Sometimes it’s to respond to feedback from fans — like with the much-requested option to quickly change gear between matches — while other times the goal is to add something completely different to the experience, such as with the new mode coming next month.
“All three of the existing ranked battle modes involve teams competing for control of something, whether it’s an area or an object,” says Shintaro Sato, programming director on the game. “And we thought with “clam blitz” we would add plurality to that gameplay. So now the stage is littered with clams, and there are multiple items for players to possess and compete for. The idea being that players will gather clams as a team and need to carry them forward to push the frontlines of the battle forward.
“With the existing three modes, we drew inspiration from a variety of sources, whether that was different genres of games or from sports like rugby. This time around, rather than following that pattern, we thought ‘How could we create a new mode that would be different?’ That was the base that we started from.”
This series of updates is expected to keep things going until around February of next year, and Nintendo has said that it plans to keep supporting the game for a year after launch. Nogami notes that the updates could potentially extend further than that, saying that the team is currently in the “planning stages” for what that future support could look like. Whatever it ends up being, though, these kinds of updates aren’t just a way to keep Splatoon in the spotlight. They’re intrinsic to the game itself.
“An idea that’s sort of baked into Splatoon at the most fundamental level is that we’re not exactly releasing a game when you buy that package,” says Nogami. “But it’s more that we’re releasing an experience that evolves over time.” And at a time when that model often proves controversial, Nintendo seems to be doing it the right way with Splatoon.


Sonos today confirmed to The Verge that customers can now play music from Spotify on its speakers with Amazon's Alexa voice assistant. To enable Spotify, users must choose it as their preferred service inside the Alexa app. Once that's done, you can tell Alexa to play your full collection of Spotify playlists, artists, albums, and songs.
The addition of Spotify addresses one of my main gripes with the Sonos One, the company's first speaker with integrated mics for Alexa. At launch, the One couldn't play music from Spotify with voice; you had to start playing from the Sonos or Spotify app and then could use voice for skipping tracks or adjusting volume.
Related
Sonos was aware of the glaring omission and had promised to add full Spotify support by December 21st. Thankfully it didn’t take that long, and now users will have their Discover Weekly, Release Radar, and custom-made playlists just a quick "Alexa" request away. Black Friday buyers of the Sonos One won’t have to deal with the same frustration as early owners. Older Sonos speakers don't miss out on this convenience, as they can be linked with and controlled by Amazon Echo devices.
Separately, Sonos has recently been working with streaming partners to give more apps control over its hardware. Both Pandora and Tidal can now play music directly to Sonos speakers.


Leica is today announcing the latest camera in its portfolio, the APS-C class CL. The CL is a very similar camera to the TL2 released earlier this year, with the same image sensor and overall performance. But it has a more traditional design than the futuristic TL2 and should appeal to those wanting a classic style camera that’s smaller, lighter, and of course, significantly cheaper than Leica’s flagship M10 rangefinder.
The biggest difference between the TL2 and the CL is the CL’s integrated electronic viewfinder. It has a 2.36-megapixel display mounted on the top left side of the camera (when viewed from the rear). As far as electronic viewfinders go, this one won’t blow anyone away -- even the viewfinder on Leica’s own Q bests it — but it is much better than the detachable viewfinder that slides into the hotshoe on the TL2.
The other big difference with the CL are the control dials and small LCD display on the top plate. Like the TL2, the two control dials are customizable and can be programmed for whatever parameter you want to control. But on top of each dial is a button that toggles a secondary function, making it easy to switch between two entirely different control schemes. In addition, the black and white LCD screen between the dials displays settings, battery, and exposure indicators, so it’s easy to check things on the go. It even lights up automatically in dim lighting.
The back of the CL is a mix between the TL2 and its fully touchscreen control system and the Q’s button-based system. Basically, the CL combines the two ideas: its rear display is fully touch and gesture enabled, but it still has buttons and a four way controller.
The CL is noticeably more compact than the TL2, and Leica likens its size to the fixed-lens X2 released a few years ago. It’s roughly the same size as the Fujifilm X-E3 and only slightly larger than Sony’s extremely compact A6500.
Inside, the CL has a 24-megapixel APS-C sensor (the same one as found in the TL2) and Leica’s Maestro II image processor. It can shoot up to 33 DNG and JPEG full resolution images at 10 frames per second and shoots 4K video at 30 frames per second or 1080p video at up to 60 frames per second. Leica boasts a 14 stop dynamic range and ISO up to 50,000. The CL’s contrast based autofocus system has 49 points to work with and the camera offers both a mechanical and electronic shutter.
Interestingly, the CL doesn’t have any I/O ports to speak off — the only way to get images off the camera is to remove the SD card and put it in a computer or use Leica’s iOS or Android app to wireless transfer images to a phone or tablet.
The CL is compatible with Leica’s TL mount system, which now boasts a total of seven lenses, including a new, compact 18mm f/2.8 option. It’s also compatible with the seven lenses in the SL system, and Leica offers mount adapters to use M- and R-mount lenses on it.
For the first time, Leica will be selling the CL in bundled kits, in addition to body only options. A kit with the new 18mm lens will cost $3,795, while a kit with an 18-55 zoom lens will run $3,995. The CL body alone costs $2,795 and the 18mm lens will sell for $1,295. All options are available to order starting today.


Misfit launched a new hybrid smartwatch today called the Command. Similarly to its earlier hybrid watch, the Phase, it tracks steps and calories and can notify wearers of calls, texts, or whatever else is happening on their phone. It doesn't have an LCD display because it's hybrid, so instead, graphic icons light up to signify notifications.
The watch also includes a smart button that can be programmed to do various things, like play music or take a photo. All this functionality is similar to the Phase, except for the icons. I prefer the design of the Phase, which opted for a small window of light to convey notifications. However, both hybrid watches definitely look better than the company's first true smartwatch, the Vapor.
The Command is water resistant up to 50 meters and should last for up to a year before needing a new battery. It costs $149.99 and is available in four color variations: black steel, black copper, navy blue, and steel. It ships November 28th.


“Where is Superman?”
That question haunted Justice League’s marketing campaign, as millions of people (or possibly just me) obsessively wondered where the Man of Steel was in the film. Now that Justice League is here, we finally know the answer to that question, and it turns out that it’s simultaneously more and less interesting than we imagined.
Spoilers for Game of Thrones season 5, Man of Steel, Batman v Superman, and Justice League follow.
First off, let’s just get this out of the way: I was right. Back in March, I made this prediction:
Justice League will feature Superman as a bad guy, at least until the Justice League beats the stuffing out of him and turns him good again.
Sure enough, in Justice League, Superman comes back from the dead, and his first action is to immediately try and kill the entire Justice League. Yes, it’s more due to the fact that he’s confused after being dead than because he’s actually turned evil, but I’m still scoring this one for me.
But was this reveal worth deliberately hiding Superman’s role in the film for so long?
To answer that, let’s look at how Superman is brought back. When Ben Affleck’s Bruce Wayne suggests resurrecting him around the midpoint of the movie, it’s such an incredibly off-the-cuff, nonchalant suggestion. The movie makes a bit of a deal about how this is a bad idea: Jason Momoa’s Aquaman argues that Superman probably lost his soul when he died, and Gal Gadot’s Wonder Woman thinks Bruce will probably create a Doomsday-esque monster, like the last person who revived a dead Kryptonian on Earth did. Of course, Batman ignores them, and through the power of the Mother Box, Superman is revived.
And yes, he does take a few minutes to beat up the Justice League, including a cringe-inducing callback to Batman v Superman’s “Do you bleed?” line. But beyond that, there’s pretty much no consequence to his death. Lois Lane (Amy Adams) shows up and talks him down from his post-resurrection temper tantrum, and Clark is back to billboard-worthy smiles and defending truth, justice, and the American way before the day is out.
There are ultimately no consequences to Snyder killing off Superman in Batman v Superman, and Justice League is more focused on the ensuing brawl against the Big Bad, Steppenwolf, to even really acknowledge Superman’s return from death as a notable event relative to the rest of the plot.
But the more I think on it, the more it just plain doesn’t make sense to me. Clearly someone wanted his return to be a grand reveal. Superman doesn’t appear in any posters, trailers, or marketing materials, except that 2016 Comic-Con promo shot. But the lead-up to Justice League undermined that goal at almost every turn. Sure, Superman doesn’t appear in promotional materials, but there have been set reports about Cavill’s role for months, including the still-spectacular CGI mustache scandal. Cavill joined the rest of the cast on press tours, where his supposed non-role in the film was a running joke. The movie itself doesn’t even try to hide it: Cavill has second billing, right after Ben Affleck in the opening credits.
Compare that to Game of Thrones, which pulled a similar stunt with the death and revival of Kit Harington’s Jon Snow over the course of the fifth and sixth seasons of the series. Jon’s planned return was predicted and anticipated, but at least the show made an effort to hide it, with producers and cast members swearing to the rafters that Jon was really, truly gone. And while there’s an argument to be made that the entire idea of having a “big reveal” is outdated, especially in the age of the internet, where every possible theory can be guessed and every set picture leaked in an instant, at least the Game of Thrones showrunners tried to earn the moment by putting in the effort.
Game of Thrones also handles the resurrection better from a story perspective: Jon Snow changes as a character when he comes back, abandoning his sworn duty to the Night’s Watch and venturing south to save Winterfell and the rest of House Stark. He carries obvious physical and emotional scars from the wounds that killed him. Death affects him, and shifts his priorities in life in a way that it doesn’t with Superman in Justice League.
Given that there is no real plot reason for the big reveal, though, the best explanation I can come up with is that Justice League’s story hinges on the fact that Superman is dead. The absence of Earth’s Kryptonian savior is cited as a reason for the Mother Boxes awakening and summoning Steppenwolf. (Never mind, as my colleague Tasha Robinson has pointed out, the boxes quite literally had thousands of years before Superman was around to do this.) And it’s Batman’s guilt over Superman’s death that incites him to form the Justice League. But that means the entire years-long ploy is just a lazy writing shortcut to kickstart the events of the film.
It also doesn’t help that Superman is so overwhelmingly powerful relative to the rest of the Justice League that his absence for most of the movie gives everyone else a chance to do something first. (Whether or not you agree with it, Justice League presents a fairly conclusive answer to the “Who would win?” game, with Superman both handily defeating the rest of the Justice League and easily turning the tide against Steppenwolf.) A movie where Superman is around to help throw down against Steppenwolf from the start would have been a lot shorter and duller.
Obviously, there has to be some sort of surprise in movies like Justice League. And it’s possible that Warner Bros.’ marketing department was trying to learn from some of the lessons of Batman v Superman, which infamously spoiled both the Wonder Woman and Doomsday reveals in trailers months before the film arrived. It’s a delicate balance: these films need to show fans enough in advance to make sure they show up to theaters, but not enough to completely defeat the point of seeing the film in the first place.
But the takeaway from this entire Superman saga should be that if studios are going to aim for surprise reveals, they need to make the effort to actually keep the secret, and ensure that whatever is unveiled is worth it.
Update November 21st, 1:25pm: In what I assume is a conscious effort to personally troll me, DC and Warner Bros. have released an updated version of this poster for the film (originally released in July at Comic-Con) that now includes Superman.
New official #JusticeLeague poster pic.twitter.com/DeqgQKIUTl


Tether, the startup company that allows users to trade and use digital tokens backed by fiat currencies like the dollar, euro, and yen, says that close to $31 million was stolen from its coffers after a malicious attack. In a post on its website, Tether says $30,950,000 USDT was taken from its treasury wallet on November 19th and sent to a unauthorized digital wallet. USDT is a cryptocurrency token pegged to the US dollar, which is fully backed by assets in the company’s reserve account.
Tether says it will not redeem any of the stolen tokens and that it is in the process of attempting to recover the tokens to prevent them from entering the broader ecosystem. Bitcoin’s price dropped sharply as a result in morning trade, but clawed back some gains to $8,190, according to Bloomberg.
So tether got hacked for $30m pic.twitter.com/v97i9zF5sV
Tether says it’s providing new builds of its software Omni Core to the community and says the updates should prevent any movement of the stolen coins. “Accordingly, any and all exchanges, wallets, and other Tether integrators should install this software immediately in order to prevent loss,” the company wrote. “A thorough investigation on the cause of the attack is being undertaken to prevent similar actions in the future.”


On the first day of the iPhone X release, Avinash ended up with too many phones. After waiting in line, he bought two phones on spec, eventually deciding to list them on Facebook Marketplace for a quick profit. He figured it wouldn’t be hard to find a buyer, and he was right: within hours of listing the phone, he was flooded with offers. But one stood out: someone named Andy Mai was offering to buy the phones for $1,700 apiece, hoping to pick them up that Saturday.
“Obviously, I was pretty taken aback by that,” Avinash says. The buyer arranged to make the exchange outside the 800 Degrees Pizza in Westwood, Los Angeles. He didn’t show up in person, but sent a tall Asian man and another helper, who said they were friends of Mai. After Avinash saw $3,400 come into his Venmo account, he handed over the phones. “Then Monday morning, I get an email saying the funds have been withdrawn.”
It’s unclear why the money was withdrawn, but it’s likely Mai had paid with illicit funds -— either taken from a stolen credit card or a hacked account. Once Venmo caught on to the transaction, the company reversed the charges, sending the money back to its rightful owner. When Avinash told Venmo about the phone handoff, they recommended he contact the LAPD, which pledged to investigate but has shown little sign of tracking down the missing phones. Avinash was left with no phones and was out at least $2,000.
“This money was going to my tuition and my visa processing fees,” he told me. “With that gone, I’m really in a fix.”
Avinash wasn’t the only victim. The Verge first reported on Mai’s scheme in July, tracking thousands of dollars in reversed transactions tied to camera purchases — but the massive scope of the fraud is only now becoming clear: in addition to the cases The Verge identified this summer, we have identified 10 more victims, totaling over $125,000 in reversed transactions, most of which can be linked to the individual, or group of individuals, who go by “Andy Mai.” The earliest heists date back as far as 2014; the most recent one occurred earlier this month. The stolen goods include phones, camera equipment, handbags, and designer sneakers. Sometimes the scams begin with listings on Facebook Marketplace, other times Craigslist. But each scam hinges on a payment made through Venmo, and they all end with victims handing away their goods and receiving nothing in return.
Through it all, Mai seems to have avoided any repercussions from law enforcement or Venmo itself. Nearly all the victims recall an “Andy Mai” account on both Facebook Marketplace and Venmo — but when they called the number provided to them, a different person picked up the phone each time. With dozens of different people taking part in the scam, police have been unable to make much progress on the case. Occasionally, a security camera would pick up footage of the person picking up, or even their license plate — but police never seemed able to do much with those leads.
The scammers have been careful to cover their tracks. Pickups typically take place at a neutral location; given the choice, Mai favors the Westwood pizzeria, just a few minutes’ walk from the UCLA campus. The pickup person seems to be someone new each time, usually young, male, and Asian.
Most victims tell a similar story, with Mai initially reaching out through Facebook Marketplace, then sending money from a Venmo account with some variation of his name. He cycles through Venmo accounts quickly, often being suspended after a particular scam had gone through. But many victims encountered the same Facebook account on Marketplace, showing a handsome Asian man hanging out with friends. The page listed him as an alumni of a local college, and showed a seemingly normal network of friends. But none of the victims that The Verge spoke to have seen the individual in the Facebook profile in person, so it’s plausible the pictures were stolen or faked. As soon as victims began snooping around in earnest, the account was suspended, and it disappeared from Facebook entirely.
Some of the best leads have come from victims themselves. A victim named Jonathan lost an iPhone X to an Andy Mai using the same Venmo account involved in the Avinash scam. (Since the case is still open, Jonathan asked to not use his full name.) He posted his phone to Facebook Marketplace on November 4th. Mai reached out to him with an offer to purchase the phone for $1,500 and the meet-up was arranged at the same Westwood pizza parlor. A short, pudgy Asian man came to pick up the phone, Jonathan says, not more than 25 years old. When the money came through to his Venmo account, Jonathan handed over the phone — but just like Avinash, the money was gone within 24 hours.
Jonathan connected with other victims over Facebook and began to register the scam’s scope. Eager to get his money back, he set a trap, listing another iPhone X for sale on Craigslist. When Mai responded, Jonathan insisted that they meet him in the courtyard of his downtown Los Angeles apartment complex, planning to confront whoever showed up. Before the meeting, I asked if he was scared. After all, if Mai was involved in organized crime, a physical confrontation could be dangerous. Jonathan shrugged it off. “Absolutely not,” he said. “I will hold this guy down until the police get there.”
He was in for a surprise. When he confronted the courier, the man had never heard of the listing or any reversed Venmo charges. He said he was a UCLA student, and had been paid $200 to pick up the package. The only thing he had in common with Mai was that they both spoke Vietnamese. When Jonathan laid out the broader scam, it was clear the courier had no idea what he was involved in.
“He was sweating beyond belief when I cornered him, so I don’t think he was lying,” Jonathan said. “He didn’t really know anything about the guy. He knew his voice, but that’s it.”
Mai has been able to play that trick reliably enough to turn it into an ongoing racket, making a small fortune off unsuspecting phone flippers and other peer-to-peer sellers. The most recent surge of victims has come with the iPhone X release, as line-sitters look to flip Apple’s most expensive phone for a profit. But The Verge was contacted by victims reaching as far back as the iPhone 6 Plus launch in 2014, when Mai bought 44 phones from a reseller for more than $40,000. (All of the money was recalled shortly after the purchase.)
Another incident involved six pairs of Yeezy Zebras, a sought-after sneaker collaboration between Adidas and Kanye West. The victim listed the sneakers for $13,550 in March, near the peak of their value, and lost his entire haul to Mai’s scam. Other users reported similar scams after listing handbags from Hermès and Chanel.
Mai’s scam exploits a little-known weakness in how Venmo works. Outside of a few recent merchant-based systems, Venmo doesn’t provide fraud protection, and recommends users only transact with people they know and trust. That lets Venmo transfer money without taking a fee, but it also leaves users vulnerable to criminals like Mai. If a scammer can convince someone to trade goods for a Venmo payment, they can pay with stolen money and get away clean. Within 24 hours, Venmo will reverse the charges, leaving sellers with no money and no goods.
Though Venmo is explicit that it doesn’t recoup losses from fraud, it still monitors for account takeovers and payments that involve stolen money. “As a service of PayPal, Inc, Venmo has the benefit of nearly 20 years of experience in payments security and fraud prevention,” one representative told The Verge. “We have many tools that we use to monitor accounts and transactions that can lead to investigation. If ever a question is raised about an account, our account specialist team will investigate and take appropriate action.”
Venmo’s simultaneous lack of fraud protection and wording about fraudulent account monitoring can be confusing. When Avinash received the fraud warning that accompanied the charge reversal, he assumed Venmo was cracking down on Mai. “If they were proactive enough to block my account for receiving the money,” he says, “how is this person able to keep opening accounts to do this?”
The situation has gotten even more confusing as Venmo has expanded into retail. In September, the company began shipping its own debit cards, and a month after that, it expanded to allow e-commerce payments wherever PayPal is accepted. That leaves a mess of different transaction types that are largely invisible to the average user, some with fraud protections and some without. Crucially, the system leaves peer-to-peer transactions completely vulnerable.
Reached for comment, Venmo emphasized that the product is not intended for actual transactions, and users should only use Venmo retail services with authorized vendors. “PayPal and Venmo are continually working to combat and prevent the illicit use of our services,” a representative said. “We devote significant resources to financial crime compliance, and we proactively refer cases to and assist law enforcement officials in their efforts to identify, investigate and stop illegal activity.”
Still, the scam doesn’t seem to be going anywhere. While Mai’s activities are focused around Los Angeles, The Verge has documented similar heist reports in New York City and the Bay Area. Since our initial article in July, various representatives from the Los Angeles Police Department have expressed a belief that Mai will be caught soon, but there’s been no indication of an arrest or other investigative progress.
In the meantime, Avinash is left looking for someone who can help him get his money back. “I’m still waiting for someone from the police department to get back to me,” he says. “There’s just not a lot of options there.”


Microsoft’s Skype app for Android and iOS has been removed from a number of app stores in China for almost a month. The New York Times reports that Skype has been removed due to local laws that apply to VoIP services in China. “We have been notified by the Ministry of Public Security that a number of voice over internet protocol apps do not comply with local law,” says an Apple spokesperson in a statement to the NYT. “Therefore these apps have been removed from the app store in China.”
While Google’s official Play Store doesn’t operate in China, other third-party Android app services have also removed Skype. It’s not clear how long Skype will remain blocked from these app stores, but a Microsoft spokesperson tells the NYT that Skype has been “temporarily removed” from Apple’s App Store in China. The software giant is “working to reinstate the app as soon as possible.”
The Skype removal comes just months after China started blocking WhatsApp. Other services like Gmail, Facebook, and Twitter are all blocked by Chinese government filters.


Toyota has revealed its third generation humanoid robot, the T-HR3, which can be controlled and synchronized with the operator’s movements. The user wears data gloves and an HTC Vive VR headset that’s linked to cameras to show the robot’s perspective. T-HR3 stands 1.54 meters tall and weighs 75kg ( 5 feet, 1 inches / 165 pounds) and was developed to explore the possibility of assisting humans in the home, medical facilities, construction sites, disaster areas, and even in space, Toyota says.
The operator can control the robot’s entire body using what's called the Master Maneuvering System (MMS) — 16 torque servo modules in the chair, motion and force sensors at the feet, and 29 more torque servo modules located in the robot’s joints.
When the user moves, the MMS signals to the robot’s 29 body parts (including 10 fingers) to move. The operator can move the robot forwards or laterally by making walking movements while remaining in place. The robot also has balance control, so if it collides with an object, it can keep its balance. Force can be controlled as well, as highlighted by the video when the robot gently picks up a balloon-like ball.
"The Partner Robot team members are committed to using the technology in T-HR3 to develop friendly and helpful robots that coexist with humans and assist them in their daily lives," said Akifumi Tamaoki, general manager of Toyota’s robots. "Looking ahead, the core technologies developed for this platform will help inform and advance future development of robots to provide ever-better mobility for all."
T-HR3 will be shown at the International Robot Exhibition in Tokyo from November 29th to December 2nd. Too bad it can’t do backflips.



I like watches. I wear one every single day, without fail, and have since I was in elementary school. I also like gadgets a lot, which means that a smartwatch is something that I’ve always been intrigued by and wanted in my life.
But despite being both a watch wearer and a fan of overwrought gadgets, I’ve never found a liking for the Apple Watch. The early iterations had a clumsy interface, slow performance, and just average battery life. They always left me disappointed and looking for something else after a short while.
Apple has added many features and improvements to the Watch since its debut in 2015. The company has completely re-architected how the user interface works, but for the most part its feature additions have been focused on a specific type of user: an active person who wants to use the Apple Watch to track all of their workouts and fitness activities.
Last year’s Series 2 model added standalone GPS, which is hugely helpful for getting accurate maps of your runs. It also introduced swim tracking, so you can use the Apple Watch to record your lap times. This year’s Series 3 builds on that with optional LTE connectivity, which allows you to leave your iPhone at home and still be connected.
My colleague Lauren Goode has already gone in depth on the Watch’s fitness features, which you can read about here and here. (In short: GPS is great. LTE needs some work.) But I am not terribly concerned with fitness-tracking features or LTE connectivity. For me, the extent of working out is when I have to run to catch the train before it leaves the station, or shoveling snow when we get the next inevitable nor’easter. And there is never a time where I’ll leave the house without my phone in my hand or pocket.
In addition to the highly publicized fitness features, Apple has been iterating on the things that make the Watch a useful wrist computer, including better battery life, easier-to-use software, and much faster performance. So, for the past two weeks, I’ve worn the latest Apple Watch to get an idea of where it’s at as a smartwatch, not a fitness tracker. I haven’t used LTE connectivity or GPS tracking, two features that don’t impact my day-to-day use, but I have managed a lot of notifications, interacted with a bunch of third-party apps, controlled my smart home gadgets, checked the weather countless times, and even used Siri almost every day. And, of course, with the Apple Watch on my wrist, instead of my usual analog watch, I’ve used it to check the time a bunch, too.
My conclusion, after testing the $329 (and up) Apple Watch Series 3 without LTE, is that it’s hands-down the best option if you want a smartwatch to go with your iPhone. It’s fast, has by far the best support for third-party apps and integrations, and its battery life is reliable enough that I don’t have to charge it every single day. That isn’t to say it’s perfect — far from it — nor is it to say that everyone needs a smartwatch. But if you’ve already decided that you do want a smartwatch, or if you’ve tried the Apple Watch in the past and were frustrated with its performance, usability, or battery life, the Apple Watch Series 3 is what you want.
At this point, the Apple Watch’s design is iconic, and it hasn’t changed at all since 2015. Its rounded rectangular shape is distinctive enough that I can easily spot one from across a room or subway car, and it’s compact and comfortable in ways that other smartwatches only dream of. The 42mm space gray aluminum model that I’ve been wearing has the same level of fit and finish as any other Apple product, which means it’s damn near perfect. I’ve worn other smartwatches that cost orders of magnitude more than this and don’t have the build quality that Apple manages here.
But that iconic design also means that every Apple Watch looks like every other Apple Watch, and when millions of people already own these things, it’s hard to project a sense of personality or taste with one. Yes, you can opt for one of two sizes; a silver, gold, or gray color; aluminum, stainless steel, or ceramic finishes; and a wide variety of first-party or third-party straps (I’ve been wearing Nomad’s Modern Leather strap for the most part), but there’s no mistaking the Apple Watch for anything else. If you’re accustomed to people asking you about the watch on your wrist because it’s unique or different, you can forget about that happening with the Apple Watch. Call it a victim of its own success, if you will.
That said, the Watch’s design is very functional, with its bright, colorful square display making it easy to read text indoors or out, and its two buttons plus a touchscreen make it easy to navigate the interface. The spinning crown is particularly great for scrolling through lists, zooming in on images or maps, or making quick volume adjustments when listening to music.
None of the above is new, but what is new is just how fast and responsive the Apple Watch Series 3 is. Thanks to its new S3 processor and improvements made in watchOS, everything happens faster on the Series 3. The interface is more responsive, third-party apps open much quicker, and even Siri is quick enough to no longer be frustrating. I found myself actually wanting to use the Watch for things I’d typically just go straight to my phone for, like setting timers, checking the weather with Carrot, or adjusting my Ecobee thermostat, because the responsiveness is so much better than before.
Additionally, battery life has been greatly improved with the Series 3 over earlier Watch versions. While Apple still only says the Series 3 is good for “up to 18 hours” of battery life, I routinely get two days between charges, and sometimes even longer. (I do not wear the Watch when I sleep because that is awful and uncomfortable.) The reason for the longer battery life is the new, more efficient processor and a larger battery cell in the Watch itself, designed to compensate for the GPS and LTE functionality. But if you never use GPS or LTE, like me, the Watch can easily go for longer than a single day.
Despite the better battery life, Apple still doesn’t offer an always-on display function, which means the screen is off until you lift your wrist, a notification wakes it up, or you tap it. I’d easily give up a significant chunk of the improved battery life if it means I could have an always-on screen that I can quickly glance at to check the time without needing to raise my arm or interact with the Watch in some way.
Speaking of interactions, unless you use Siri to do everything, the Watch remains a two-handed device. I wear the Watch on my left wrist and that means I can’t do anything with it if there’s something in my right hand, such as a coffee cup, bag of groceries, or toddler. Android Wear’s gesture-based controls may be exceedingly goofy, but they do let me scroll through notifications without having to touch the watch.
A lot of the improvements Apple has made over the years are in the Watch’s software, and watchOS 4 is the best version of it yet. Apple has removed many of the unorthodox ideas, such as using the crown to scroll ahead in time or tapping the side button to see a list of favorite contacts, and replaced them with more obvious actions that mimic how the iPhone works.
Pressing the side button brings up a vertical carousel of recently accessed apps, while swiping up from the watchface opens toggles for connectivity, sound, and other functions. Swipe down from the top and you can see all of your notifications, or you can swipe left or right across the screen to quickly change watchfaces. Pressing the crown’s button still brings up the weird constellation of app icons, but I’ve found that I don’t need to dive into that very often because I just set my most-used apps as widgets on the watchface itself.
WatchOS 4 also brings a much improved Siri experience that’s faster and allows Siri to talk back to you for a fully hands-free / eyes-free experience. There’s also a new Siri watchface that shows upcoming appointments, weather, news, and more, but it’s not something I found particularly useful in my day to day.
The upside of all of these software improvements is that they are available on any generation of Apple Watch; you don’t have to buy the latest and greatest model to take advantage of them. If you do buy a Series 3 model, you will benefit from faster performance over earlier models, but the difference between a Series 3 and last year’s Series 1 or Series 2 is not going to be significant enough to warrant an upgrade for the increased speed alone. (If you have a first-generation Apple Watch from 2015, you are much more likely to see a performance difference with a Series 3.)
My takeaway after two-plus weeks with the latest smartwatch Apple has to offer is that it isn’t trying to convince the world that everyone needs a smartwatch. Instead, the improvements here make the smartwatch experience better for those that have already converted.
If you’re like me, and are into the concept of managing notifications and checking small bits of information on your wrist, the Apple Watch Series 3 does those things very well, with fewer headaches than earlier models. It’s better than using an Android Wear or Samsung Gear watch with an iPhone, simply because of its deeper integration with iOS and support for far more third-party apps and services. I would recommend skipping right past the LTE model and saving $70, which you can then spend on getting a different strap than the default silicone option that comes with the Watch.
There’s also a good argument to be made that the best Apple Watch for those that don’t care much about fitness tracking is the Series 1, which Apple still sells for $80 less than the Series 3. It is able to take advantage of all of the new improvements Apple has made in watchOS 4 and can provide a very similar experience to the Series 3. But unless your budget is really strapped, the Series 3 model will provide longer battery life and faster performance, and will likely be supported by future versions of watchOS for longer.
The Apple Watch may not ever be the promised device that liberates us from the shackles of our smartphones, but three years into its existence, it is a very competent and capable smartwatch. Now if only it would show me the time all of the time.


This all-new 2018 Vantage is a very important car for Aston Martin. It is not its signature vehicle, like the DB Series cars, named for David Brown who saved the company from financial ruin in the mid-20th century. It is not their hypercar “halo” flagship, like the $2.5 million Valkyrie, developed as a Formula One racer for the road. But it has long been the company’s best-selling model, its bread and butter, its gateway point of entrée for consumers. It’s a six-figure sports car that epitomizes the brand’s delicate, almost alchemical, blend of performance, luxury, and beauty.
This Vantage raises the bar in all three areas. Enhanced speed comes courtesy of the growling twin-turbocharged 4.0-liter V8 engine, produced by Mercedes-Benz, which holds a 5 percent stake in the boutique British brand. Benz has a hand in the technology that underpins the new car as well, providing its digital dashboard and COMAND information and entertainment screens and interface. Interior indulgence comes courtesy of Aston’s talented craftspeople, who create wood and composite marquetry, knurl metal knobs, and handily “brogue” leather — piercing it in a constellation pattern, as on a wingtip shoe, to allow subtle sub-dermal contrasting colors to come through. And the new exterior design takes the Vantage’s sharp-nosed, flat-tailed bullet shape and makes it at once more sensuous and more muscular. (Though we might be tempted by a more, ahem, traditional color than this noxious Lime Essence.)
A crisper nose, broader hips, more sculpted sides, and additional aggressive aerodynamic add-ons give the new Vantage a more menacing silhouette. The Vantage’s designers liken the shape to a shark: always in motion, seeking its prey. A narrowed greenhouse — the openings for the windows and windshields — makes the car appear lower, more connected to the ground.
The trim bits on the traditional “hill climb” Aston grille, the skirts under the doors, the rear fascia, and the triangular fender vents can be ordered in body color, gloss black, satin titanium, or exposed carbon fiber. A two-pipe dual exhaust system comes as standard; a four-pipe quad exhaust is optional.
The car uses no active aerodynamic aids to enhance road-holding, just the sculpted body kit and front and rear spoilers and diffusers. The narrow horizontal headlamps are inspired by those on the car Aston custom-designed for the last James Bond movie, Spectre.
The signature Aston Martin “waterfall” — a curved cascade running down the middle of the cabin from windshield to center console — has been replaced by a more logical, and sporty, landscape array. Clear crystal transmission shift pushbuttons remain, but are now arranged in an arc. The blank triangular space in front of the infotainment controller can (and will) house a 7-speed manual transmission, a rarity in contemporary sports cars, but an Aston brand promise.
Contrasting color hand-stitching, embroidery, and broguing abounds in the cabin, offering distinctive moments of levity and delight. Trim pieces can be ordered in multiple materials and colors. Aston’s “Q” specialization shop can customize your car to your specifications. A squared-off steering wheel is shared with the DB11.
The Vantage is perfectly balanced, with 50 percent of its weight over the front and 50 percent over the rear. Lightweight metal alloys and composite materials help keep the car’s weight down to around a mere 3,300 pounds.
·      First US deliveries of the new Vantage will take place in June 2018·      Price: Under $150,000·      Performance: 0-60 3.6 seconds, Top Speed 195 mph·      Power: 4.0 liter twin-turbocharged V8 503 hp / 505 lb-ft·      Dog not included


Microsoft appears to be testing a new Windows 10 search user interface that floats across the screen. Italian blog Aggiornamenti Lumia discovered the new search interface in the latest test build of Windows 10 (17040) released last week. The new look replaces the Cortana interface for now, and could be a sign Microsoft is looking to improve its keyboard-based searching.
A floating search bar includes the same results you’d find in the Start Menu or from the Cortana search bar in the current taskbar on Windows 10. The search bar can also be activated using the Windows+S shortcut, and it looks very similar to the macOS Spotlight search interface. While the immersive Cortana search interface is currently in testing, I’m hoping Microsoft opts to make this even more powerful than Spotlight search.
Alfred for Mac and Wox for Windows offer a much more powerful way to search, integrating in custom web queries and automated workflows. Microsoft has shunned this type of advanced search for years, but opening up the search interface to be more powerful would be a step in the right direction for an operating system that’s marketed as “more productive” and for creators.



Rez Infinite is one of the best games available for PlayStation VR, Oculus Rift, and the Vive, but the mind-bending experience has always required you to be tethered to a TV or PC. That changes today with the first version of the game for mobile VR — Rez Infinite is out now for Google Daydream.
That means owners of any Pixel phone, the Samsung Galaxy S8 and Note 8, the LG V30, and a handful of other devices will be able to play Rez Infinite with Google's Daydream View headset and controller. It's probably the most significant game release for the platform since it launched last year, and while I can't vouch for how good this version is, I do suddenly want to play Rez in VR on a plane.
Rez Infinite is free to download on Daydream, but unlocking the full game requires a $9.99 purchase.


The latest weapon in the fight against opioid addiction may be sensors in prescription opioids that alert physicians whenever their patients pop a pill. These digital pills aren’t on the market yet, but a small test run shows that they can help doctors monitor how patients use prescription painkillers at home.
By prescribing opioids equipped with radio transmitters to patients treated for broken bones, researchers tracked patients’ pill use in real time. The research team, led by Peter Chai at Harvard Medical School’s Brigham and Women’s Hospital, found that most of the patients started spacing out their doses after a few days, and stopped before their pills ran out, according to the study published in the journal Anesthesia and Analgesia. (The participants turned their remaining pills in to their docs).
Prescribing too many pills might lead patients to take more than they need, the study says — or leave them with extra pills to be sold. So giving researchers a way to track how many pills patients actually use could help doctors write better opioid prescriptions that leave fewer pills left over. Digital pills could also help doctors spot — and stop — dangerous drug use early. This level of detail is a first: typically, doctors have no way to monitor opioid use once a patient goes home with a bottle of pills. “We’re placing the onus of one of the most dangerous medicines we have into the hands of patients,” says Chai, a physician and medical toxicologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital.
Chai wanted to know if there was a way to spot problematic drug use as the behavior emerges. If someone suddenly starts taking their prescribed painkillers more frequently, for example, it could mean they’re suffering from a painful complication. Or it could mean they’re growing tolerant to the drug, and could begin misusing it. “Those are two different conversations,” Chai says — and they’re ones that are only possible if a doctor can track their patients’ pill use.
That’s where the digital pills come in. Made by a Florida-based company called eTectRx, they’re gel capsules that contain both the drug and a radio transmitter “about the size of a sesame seed,” Chai says. (They’re a little different from the digital versions of antipsychotic Abilify, which the Food and Drug Administration just approved.)
Once the pill hits the patient’s stomach, the gel cap dissolves — releasing both the oxycodone tablet and the transmitter. The transmitter powers up when it touches stomach acid, and signals to an iPod-sized device via a patch stuck to the patient’s belly.  This device then beams a message to a database in the cloud, telling the doctor that the patient has swallowed a pill. (Patients need to put on the device when they take the pill in order for it to register.) Eventually, the patient poops out the tiny transmitter. Chai says he does not want the transmitters back.
The team sent 15 patients who’d been treated for broken bones home with 21 of these pills, along with instructions to take them for a week as needed. The researchers found that most patients started tapering their opioid doses on their own, and stopped after about four days — before the full week was up. None took all 21 pills, and most took many fewer — which means doctors might be sending people with fractures home with too many painkillers that could then be sold or misused.
The researchers also spotted an alarming trend: people were taking painkillers right before going to sleep to pre-empt waking up with pain. But Chai says this could lead to dangerous drops in breathing for some people — and it’s a practice they might not have identified without the digital pills.
It’s still early, but Chai says that the next round of studies will use an even more sophisticated version of these digital pill detectors. “We’re playing with the 1990s iPod. We have the iPhone X now,” Chai says. Of course, the patients will still actually have to wear the device — when they forgot, their doctors were left just as in the dark as before.


GE’s been making some really simple and accessible smart lights called C by GE for the past two years, and today, the company is announcing its first big upgrade to the system. It’s a hub, called the C-Reach, that connects C by GE lights to Wi-Fi so that they can be controlled by Alexa or the Google Assistant.
The device costs $50 on its own, but GE will also sell it bundled with pairs of bulbs at a discount — $65 for two “Life” bulbs (which have a single color option) and $85 for two “Sleep” bulbs (which have three color options).
The C-Reach hub is a useful addition to the product line that starts to make it a lot more capable — if also a lot more expensive. The strength of C by GE bulbs has always been that they’re really easy to get started with, since they rely on Bluetooth and connect directly to a phone, meaning there’s no need for a hub. The downside has been that they were pretty limited beyond that. Because they only use Bluetooth, you can’t control them remotely or set up complicated routines very easily, since the bulbs don’t connect to much else.
GE is solving that problem with the C-Reach hub, though it’s also taking away the line’s great strength. In paying to add these features to the C bulbs, everything gets pricey and complicated enough that the C system doesn’t really seem worth investing in. For little more than those prices, you can buy into Philips’ much more flexible Hue smart lighting system, which even offers cheaper bulbs.
On top of that, GE promised that this hub would support Apple’s HomeKit system, but as of now, it doesn’t — though support is said to be in the works. A representative told us that GE is “actively working with Apple on HomeKit compatibility and expect to launch that on this system in the first quarter.” For the time being, this product is really only a worthwhile buy if you also have an Amazon Echo or a Google Home. GE also said the product would sell for below $50. It does, but by only a penny.
Basically, this hub is probably only worth getting if you already own some C by GE bulbs. And even then, you may want to consider putting that money toward a more robust smart light system if you like them enough to know you want more features.
GE is running some sales on all of its C lighting line for Black Friday, making things a bit cheaper if you buy right away. The two bulb and a hub starter kits will sell for $50 and $65, instead of $65 and $85. And GE’s Sol lamp will go on sale for $100 on its own or bundled with four C bulbs for $120.
Update November 21st, 8:04AM ET: This story has been updated to include comment from GE on HomeKit support.


Riot Games is making a big change to its professional League of Legends championship series in North America. Back in June, the developer announced a major shift for the NA LCS, which would see the circuit move from a system of promotion and relegation to one with 10 permanent teams. Now, Riot is revealing the 10 franchises that will compete in the new league format starting next year, and the list includes brand-new teams backed by the likes of the Houston Rockets and Golden State Warriors. “We wanted partners who shared our mindset for building for the long term,” says Jarred Kennedy, co-head of Riot’s e-sports division.
According to Riot, the shift to permanent teams was made with an eye toward the future growth of the league. With a guaranteed spot for each squad, the thinking is that each owner will be more likely to invest in their team for the long haul. That includes things like creating training facilities, as well as investing in areas like coaching, scouting, and player wellness. Each of the 10 teams will have an academy squad, designed to give up-and-comers a chance to learn before going pro, and Riot is also working to improve the standards for players, which includes raising the minimum salary to $75,000. (Riot says that on average League pros make around $150,000 per year.) The league is also creating a players’ association to support its athletes with financial, legal, and career-building resources.
The permanent franchise structure is common in North American leagues like the NBA and NFL, and the new slate of teams for the NA LCS includes a number of prominent names from the traditional sports world. Seven of the clubs previously competed in the league — Cloud9, Counter Logic Gaming, Echo Fox, FlyQuest, Team Liquid, and TSM — while the remainder are new faces. They include Clutch Gaming, backed by the Rockets; the Golden Guardians, which is owned by the Warriors; and 100 Thieves, backed by both former e-sports pro Matthew "Nadeshot" Haag and the Cleveland Cavaliers. Optic Gaming, meanwhile, is a new addition that has previous experience with teams in games like Overwatch and Dota 2.
Much like the upcoming Overwatch League from Blizzard, Riot’s refreshed pro circuit features a mixture of big e-sports names as well as prominent players from traditional sports. “In creating a collection of partners, you want groups of folks that are going to compliment one another,” says Kennedy. “We looked at things like business acumen. We wanted folks who knew how to build a brand, to build and operate a team, bring in sponsorships, and engage fans in unique ways. We also wanted a history, or a track record, or a plan for building their fanbase.”
Logos for newcomers 100 Thieves (above), the Golden Guardians (left), and Clutch Gaming (right).
As part of the new structure, Riot is also introducing a new revenue sharing model, which will see all 10 teams and Riot contribute earnings from revenue streams like media deals and merchandise sales into a pot, which will then be shared out among everyone. Players will get 35 percent of the pool, owners 32.5 percent, while the rest goes to Riot. “It will create an incentive to work together and collaborate and build this league,” says Whalen Rozelle, the other co-head of Riot’s e-sports division.
With these changes, the NA LCS is starting to look a lot like a traditional sports league, something that’s becoming increasingly common as big sports clubs enter the space. According to Kennedy, the goal was to create something that mixed the best elements from existing leagues with concepts that were unique to the e-sports realm. “We didn’t look at any one template to say, ‘Hey, we want to be exactly like the NBA, or we want to be just like Premier League soccer.’ We picked and chose elements from various places,” he says. For now, that means that — unlike the ambitious Overwatch League — Riot isn’t looking at having teams based in specific cities.
“The concept of city-based leagues really relies on the fact that you have these teams that have to play in a location, so therefore you go to that location and watch them play,” says Rozelle. “But nowadays with streaming and playing online, you can watch anyone play from anywhere in the world. The potential downside is that [a city-based structure] may not be something that e-sports fans actually benefit from. It’s not a structure we necessarily want to force. That said, would we consider it in the future? Absolutely. If it ends up being to the league’s and fans’ benefit, it’s something we’ll do. But we’re going to take more time to understand the pros outweigh the cons.”
That said, while Riot is looking to emulate some of the enduring success of North America’s top professional sports leagues, Kennedy says that these kinds of changes aren’t being made in an attempt see League e-sports breakout as a big mainstream success on par with the NBA or NFL. “I think we’re OK without it breaking out,” he says. “That’s not something we’re looking to force. I think staying true to the fans who can truly appreciate the game, and who are at the heart of it, that’s the strategy that we’ve been successful with and we’re continuing to pursue. We’re laser-focused on the core fans that we have.”


Amazon’s second-generation Echo has the benefit of easily swappable shells, and today the company announced that it’s releasing a red version of the smart speaker to benefit (RED) and its fight against AIDS.
Other than the unique color, the (RED) Echo is identical to the regular version. The only difference is that for every (RED) Echo sold, Amazon will donate $10 to the charity. Plenty of tech companies have teamed up with (RED) in the past to release special versions of their products. Apple has famously released numerous iPods and accessories over the years to support the charity, including a red iPhone 7 earlier this year.


Chinese robotics company Ubtech has launched Lynx, the first humanoid robot with Alexa built in. It does everything Alexa can, like setting reminders and playing music through the speakers in its “ears,” plus a few extra features. There’s a Surveillance Mode that will have Lynx take and send a 30-second video to the companion app on your smartphone if it detects any sound or movement via its infrared chest sensor. And the Avatar Mode lets you see and speak through the robot’s camera and microphone, so you “don’t miss another event again by sending Lynx in your place!” It costs $800.
The above photo was the first time I saw Lynx, and I was extremely disappointed to find out that Lynx is only 20 inches tall. I had hoped she (the product description lists her as a female) would be a human-sized robot companion that could “walk and talk” with me, trailing along as I barked out items to put on the grocery list.
Lynx can also sing, dance, and teach yoga, which is a strangely brazen decision for a robot to make. What does a robot know about joint pain?
And let’s talk about Avatar Mode. Imagine putting this robot on the conference table for a meeting. Imagine this robot was your boss, Skyping in for a check-in. This cat-sized robot is your boss, and you have to face it and speak at it, and your boss’s voice will be transmitted through its tiny mouth, only the sound will be coming out of its ear-speakers.
If this all sounds great to you and you’d be more than happy to pay $800 for a robot-boss, it’s available right now exclusively on Amazon. But then again, this is the first humanoid robot ever with Alexa built-in, which means there’s room for improvement. Ubtech is releasing a stormtrooper robot this Christmas that would be a way better candidate for Alexa integration, so hopefully they’ll come around. Or may I suggest Sony’s new Aibo dog robot? I wouldn’t mind learning some doga (dog yoga).


A few days ago, there was a flash-in-the-pan controversy over Google "forking" Apple's open-source programming language Swift. After a few minutes of speculation over whether Google was going to make its own special flavor of the language for its own purposes, Swift's creator Chris Lattner (who now works at Google) helpfully clarified the situation:
Swift at Google has enough folks working on it that we need a staging ground/integration point, and we decided it should be public. https://t.co/hyphe0KrU0
Google just wanted its own working copy of the code so it could make changes and then contribute them "upstream" to the official Swift repository. No funny business.
What's more interesting is that one of those changes has already landed as a pull request to the main Swift repo: Fuchsia support (via Android Police). Google developer Zac Bowling, who helped port Objective-C to Android a few years ago, even shared the news as a reply to Lattner’s tweet:
And my team is adding support to Swift to target Fuchsia. https://t.co/ziGwc11yih
You can also stalk Google’s code review system to check out an example Swift app for Fuchsia, which prints out some emoji and the Chinese characters for “hello world.” Once Google’s suggested changes to Swift are merged, that code should run.
Fuchsia is Google's not-at-all-but-kind-of-secret operating system that's being developed in the open, but with almost zero official messaging about what it's for, or what it's built to replace. (Android? Chrome OS? Both? Neither?) The operating system's core is written in mostly C and C++, with Dart for the default "Flutter" UI, but other languages like Go, Rust, Python, and now Swift have also found a home in the project.
Of course, just because you'll be able to compile Swift to run on Fuchsia doesn't mean you'll be able to instantly port any iOS app to Google's new OS when or if it ships. While Apple has open sourced the Swift language itself, much of the iOS platform (like the UI stuff, for instance) is closed source, so code that relies on those closed Apple libraries won't be portable.
One possible future in a world where Fuchsia is an important and relevant platform for apps is that you write the "core logic" of your app in your language of choice — Swift, Go, Rust, JavaScript, etc. — and then you build a custom UI for each platform — Android, iOS, Fuchsia, Linux, Windows, the web — using the appropriate tools for each.
The alternative path could be the continued adoption of tools like Google's Flutter, or Facebook's React Native, which allow you to target multiple platforms with a single language like Dart (Google), or JavaScript (Facebook). There's even a cross-platform framework called SCADE that allows you to build iOS and Android apps in Swift.
It's a fun time to be a language nerd, and maybe someday it will even be a fun time to be an app developer.


Several years after US government officials got involved in the massive Takata airbag recall that encompassed tens of millions of cars, many still haven’t been repaired. One of the automakers implicated in the recall scandal is turning to Facebook to track down owners.
On Monday, Honda announced a new set of initiatives to complete the replacement of defective Takata inflators, which have caused hundreds of injuries and deaths. Millions of Hondas sold in the US still haven’t been repaired, so the automaker is using Facebook Custom Audiences to find owners.
“To reach specific owners of affected vehicles, encrypted email addresses associated with recalled VINs are matched to Facebook UserIDs,” Honda said in a news release. “When a customer logs into Facebook, they are presented with a custom message featuring the PSA in their Facebook feed.”
The automaker’s US arm also released a video Monday urging owners to get their vehicles checked out and repaired if necessary. Honda enlisted Stephanie Erdman, who testified November 20th, 2014 before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation about how the inflator on her 2002 Honda Civic ruptured and sent metal shrapnel into her eye. The video is set for local broadcast TV airings, the company said.
The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration requires automakers of vehicles subject to recall to notify owners by mail, using information obtained by state vehicle registration records. Recalls can also be verified on NHTSA’s website using the vehicle’s identification number. But in many cases, these letters go unnoticed or are sent to outdated addresses and vehicles go without repair. And since some of the affected vehicles are at least 10 years old, they could have been sold two or more times by now.
Honda, one of the automakers most affected by the Takata inflator scandal, estimates it’s replaced 71 percent of the recalled inflators in the US, Chris Martin from American Honda told The Verge Monday. But roughly 4.7 million inflators in US Honda vehicles have not yet been replaced. Despite the 2.2 million mailers sent out in July, Honda is making another push to reach owners.
The Takata inflators involved in a series of recalls have been reported to send metal fragments out of the airbag, sometimes without the vehicle being involved in a crash, and injuring or killing people in vehicles made and sold around the world. Honda began recalling vehicles globally in 2013 following more than 100 injuries and eight deaths, later admitting it and Takata knew about the defects for many years.
Previously a leading airbag supplier to automakers that also included BMW, General Motors, Volkswagen and even Tesla, Takata was slammed in January with $1 billion in fines and restitution by US regulators over the scandal. It filed for bankruptcy in June.



While Americans are busy traveling, paying attention to Black Friday deals, and spending time with family, the Federal Communications Commission will be rolling out its least popular proposal of the year: its final plan to dismantle net neutrality — the set of rules that prevent internet providers from giving some websites and internet traffic an advantage over others. According to The Wall Street Journal, the FCC is expected to unveil its proposal this week, less than three months after the public comment period ended on the initial proposal. The process generated 22 million comments for the commission to read and consider.
The FCC’s final proposal is likely to completely undo the strict net neutrality rules that the FCC enacted just two years ago. To do that, the proposal will have to reclassify internet providers as information services, under Title I of the Communications Act, instead of common carriers, under Title II of the Act. This seemingly dull legal distinction is the difference between giving the FCC some oversight of ISPs (Title I) and the ability to place rigorous consumer protections on them (Title II).
Republicans at the FCC, who are behind this proposal, argue that the stricter rules enacted two years ago have hampered investment in broadband and caused internet providers to slow the expansion of their networks. This is a problem, given that the FCC is tasked with ensuring the entire country gets connected. But there isn’t a ton of data to back this up. It’s only been two years, and though there was a small dip in investment, it was also attributable to factors like high oil prices and costly acquisitions. The Republican commissioners also just generally believe that making companies fill out compliance forms and follow rules is onerous and prevents innovation.
Supporters of net neutrality argue that its provisions are necessary to prevent internet providers from squeezing more money out of consumers and destroying small businesses that are trying to compete with established web giants. One fear is that without net neutrality, internet providers will begin offering “paid fast lanes,” which would allow wealthy companies to pay ISPs for a better connection to consumers. That could create real competition problems: Netflix, for instance, can afford to pay these fees and offer a snappy connection to everyone, but it’ll be much harder for a new streaming service to attract customers and get off the ground without a costly investment in delivery speed.
Net neutrality rules also prevent internet providers from advantaging their own content and blocking competitors’ apps and services. Comcast, for instance, might want to deliver video from NBC, which it owns, faster than video from Netflix, which it competes with. It might also choose to exempt NBC video from counting toward a subscriber’s data cap, encouraging them to watch NBC instead of a competitor. Likewise, net neutrality prevents things like Verizon blocking an NFC payments app because it would rather you use an app called ISIS that it had an investment in.
For now, we don’t have a full idea of what the FCC’s final proposal will look like — mostly because its initial proposal was so incredibly vague. It seems very safe to assume that it’ll undo the Title II classification of internet providers and therefore remove all current net neutrality protections, since that’s the crux of the initial proposal. But there are some very big open questions beyond that: namely, what consumer protections will the FCC put in place of the rules that it’s striking down? That is, if it puts in place any new rules at all.
A federal court has already ruled that, under the Title I classification the FCC plans to go back to, the commission doesn’t have the authority to put in place full net neutrality rules. It can put in place some rules, but they can’t go as far as, for example, completely banning paid fast lanes. So when the proposal is released, we’ll be looking to find out how far it goes to restrict paid fast lanes, limit blocking of apps and services, and prevent unfair throttling of web traffic.
FCC leadership seems skeptical that protections around these things are needed at all. And Republicans have argued that restricting them would limit ISPs’ ability to offer new pricing models that could potentially allow them to extend service to low-income and rural communities that otherwise wouldn’t be profitable enough to serve. (There is a tragic irony in Republicans voting to pull back on low-income broadband subsidies just last week.) Because of those concerns, it’s also fairly safe to guess that whatever remnants of the net neutrality protections remain are likely to be much more limited in scope and offer a lot more flexibility to ISPs, even if it means opening up anti-competitive risks.
The FCC’s next meeting, where it votes on proposals, is December 14th. That’s when it’s expected to vote on its plan to reverse net neutrality. There’s no firm date on when the proposal will be announced, but the commission usually details its plans for each meeting several weeks ahead of time, and, as of this year, publicly reveals the text of what it’ll be voting on, too. Scheduling the net neutrality announcement for Thanksgiving week may be a coincidence, but it certainly seems like the FCC is trying to release this plan at a time when it’ll be harder for net neutrality advocates to give it their full attention.


Huawei’s Honor sub-brand has announced its newest midrange device, the Honor 7X, which serves as the successor to last year’s Honor 6X. Like the 6X, which served as a cheaper option below the Honor 8 (Honor’s 2016 flagship), the 7X is a more budget-minded alternative to this year’s Honor 9 flagship.
But while the 6X stood out from other budget phones by offering a dual-camera system usually found on high-end smartphones, the 7X is hoping to make an impression by going bigger, with a 5.93-inch “Fullview” display to evoke the reduced-bezel designs of flagships like the Galaxy S8 or iPhone X. The Honor 7X also offers a fingerprint reader and an entirely metal shell, which are both nice additions.
Of course, the 7X is still a midrange smartphone, so the end result isn’t quite the same truly bezel-less design that Apple and Samsung’s dramatically more expensive devices offer.
The rest of the specs are more or less what you’d expect from a midrange device like this: Huawei’s own Kirin 659 processor, 4GB of RAM, 64GB of storage, and a 3,340mAh battery. There’s no USB-C, no waterproofing, no NFC, no wireless charging, and no Android Oreo — yet, anyway. (Honor is promising an update in 2018.)
Honor hasn’t revealed a price or release date for the 7X yet, but more details on both should be coming at an event on December 5th.


The Justice Department today filed suit to block the proposed merger between AT&T and Time Warner. The news, reported first by Bloomberg and later in subsequent reports from Reuters and Politico, is a drastic heightening of tensions between the DOJ and AT&T over what would be one of the largest media and telecommunications combinations in history.
Until today, only secondhand accounts from the inner workings of the merger approval process suggested the DOJ may not approve the deal, with the shadow of President Donald Trump hanging over the situation due to his personal feud with Time Warner-owned CNN. Now, however, the DOJ has officially laid out its argument for moving to block the merger, saying the combination of AT&T’s distribution networks and Time Warner’s news and entertainment products would harm competition.
“AT&T / DirecTV would hinder its rivals by forcing them to pay hundreds of millions of dollars more per year for Time Warner’s networks, and it would use its increased power to slow the industry’s transition to new and exciting video distribution models that provide greater choice for consumers,” reads the DOJ’s complaint. “The proposed merger would result in fewer innovative offerings and higher bills for American families.”
In a hastily put together press conference, AT&T’s executive leadership gathered in New York to harshly rebuke the DOJ lawsuit and defend the merits and legality of the merger. AT&T CEO Randall Stevenson said the lawsuit “‘stretches the very reach of antitrust law beyond the breaking point,” but he suggested that the company would look for a way forward, saying “as we head to court we will continue to offer solutions that allows this transaction to close.” Stevenson said selling CNN is off the table, however.
“The DOJ has to prove that this merger will harm competition, that this merger will harm consumers. It’s a burden that they have not met in a half a century and it’s one that they cannot and will not meet here,” said high-profile media lawyer Daniel Petrocelli, who sat next to Stevenson at the press conference and who AT&T hired to help it defend the merger.
“Under basic principals of law and economics, combining these two non-competing companies should pose no problem. The TV bill will not go up, and the combined company will not keep CNN, TNT, HBO or any other network to itself. Simply put, the theories in the DOJ’s complaint filed about an hour ago simply have no proof and make no sense in the real business world. We are confident that the law and facts will prevail and that this merger will be allowed to proceed.”
First proposed in October of 2016, the $85 billion merger proposal has drawn criticism as a dangerous consolidation of the media industry, with The Verge’s own Walt Mossberg calling it “an unhealthy concentration of power between a distributor and a maker of content.” FCC chairman Ajit Pai publicly declined to review the merger earlier this year, leaving the DOJ as the only agency positioned to review the public impact of the proposed deal.
Combining the two companies would be particularly powerful because of the still-uncertain rules around streaming video to mobile devices. Streaming video represents a lucrative opportunity for digital media companies, but the associated data charges can be expensive for consumers.
Carriers have responded with a string of zero-rated services that exempt certain video apps from data charges. That saves money for customers, but raises significant net neutrality concerns over which apps can benefit from the program. With the FCC currently rolling back the Open Internet Order, there would be few restrictions against favoring specific apps, giving a huge advantage to any video services aligned with the new conglomerate.
Recent reports have also raised concerns that Trump may have inappropriately influenced the Justice Department’s review. As part of negotiations, the Justice Department proposed a sell-off of some of Time Warner’s media holdings, which include CNN, TBS, and Cartoon Network. Some reports indicated that CNN was specifically targeted for divestment, which raised concerns given President Trump’s frequent and often unhinged criticism of the network.
As it stands, there is no proof Trump had any influence on the DOJ’s decision. “If there’s any proof there, I’m sure it will emerge and it probably won’t bode well for the government if it does,” Petrocelli said, responding to a question bout the White House’s role in the merger talks. “But we’re not dependent on that at all.”
Stevenson, in addressing the rumors swirling around Trump and CNN, had a lengthier and more definitive statement:
There’s been a lot of reporting and speculation of whether this is all about CNN — and frankly, I don’t know. But nobody should be surprised that the question keeps coming up because we’ve witnessed such an abrupt change in the application of antitrust law here. The bottom line is we cannot and we will not be party to any agreement that would even give the perception of compromising the First Amendment protections of the press. Any agreement that results in us forfeiting control of CNN, whether directly or indirectly, is a nonstarter. We believe quite strongly that any divestiture of AT&T assets or Time Warner assets is not required by the law, and we have no intention of backing down from the government’s lawsuit. We are in this to win, and absent a viable compromise that doesn’t violate our principals, we expect to do just that.
USA v ATT by Nick Statt on Scribd

Update at 4:50PM ET, 11/20: Added statement from AT&T.
Update at 5:47PM ET, 11/20: Added confirmation of DOJ lawsuit and quotes from its complaint.
Update at 5:59PM ET, 11/20: Added quotes from AT&T’s live press conference.


Astronomers have confirmed that an object that recently passed by our planet is from outside our Solar System — the first interstellar asteroid that’s ever been observed. And it doesn’t look like any object we’ve ever seen in our cosmic neighborhood before.
Follow-up observations, detailed today in Nature, have found that the asteroid is dark and reddish, similar to the objects in the outer Solar System. It doesn’t have any gas or dust surrounding it, like comets do, and it’s stretched long and skinny, looking a bit like an oddly shaped pen. It’s thought to be about a quarter-mile long, and about 10 times longer than it is wide. That makes it unlike any asteroids seen in our Solar System, none of which are so elongated.
Astronomers also think this object — nicknamed `Oumuamua, Hawaiian for “a messenger from afar arriving first”— traveled for millions of years before stumbling upon our Solar System. It seems to have come from the direction of the constellation Lyra, but the asteroid’s exact origin is still unknown. More answers might come soon, as NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope is observing `Oumuamua this week. “Our plan is to look at it through the end of the year, so we can get the very best pass possible and figure out where it came from,” Karen Meech, lead author of the study at the University of Hawaii’s Institute of Astronomy, tells The Verge.
`Oumuamua was first spotted on October 19th by astronomers working on the Pan STARRS telescope in Hawaii. The telescope is used to scan the sky for objects orbiting near Earth, looking for any that might pose a threat to our planet. But one of the rocks in the latest observations looked as if it might not belong in our neck of the Universe.
The team at Pan STARRS continued observing the object over the next couple of days. Based on their measurements, they were fairly certain that they were watching the first ever interstellar asteroid. Up until then, such a distant visitor had never been seen before, so observatories all over the world started following the object, too, in order to calculate its path and figure out its shape.
Interstellar asteroids are thought to be rejects from other planetary systems. When our Solar System first formed, for instance, the giant planets tossed around all the smaller bits of material circulating around the Sun, some of which landed in the outer edges of the Solar System while others were ejected from our neighborhood completely. These outcasts then traveled through interstellar space, possibly passing by other stars. Conceivably, ejected material from other planetary systems must make their way to our Solar System once in a while, says Meech.
Such interstellar objects are thought to pass through our Solar System pretty frequently, but they’re usually moving too fast, and they’re usually too faint to see. With `Oumuamua, astronomers got lucky: the asteroid entered our Solar System at an angle, coming in close by the Sun, and then passed by Earth on its way out of the Solar System. That gave astronomers the chance to catch it with ground-based telescopes. “I think it’s really neat that we had this visitor, however briefly, and we had a chance to look at it up close,” says Meech.
After it was first spotted, dozens of observatories all over the world continued to follow it over the next week and a half. Speed was crucial, since `Oumuamua is getting progressively farther away and growing fainter every day. “We had about a window of 10 days or two weeks to do anything practical,” says Meech. Through those quick observations, astronomers found that `Oumuamua had large fluctuations in brightness, indicating an unusually elongated, spinning object that makes one complete rotation every 7.3 hours.
Now, `Oumuamua is 124 million miles from Earth, zooming away at 85,700 miles per hour. It passed by Mars’ orbit on November 1st, and will reach Jupiter’s orbit sometime in 2018. Soon, it’ll be too hard to track, even with Hubble. “It’s really getting much too faint to do anything at all,” says Meech.
But in the next few years, we may be able to spot more interstellar objects like `Oumuamua. Once bigger telescopes start to come online, like the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope that’s being built in Chile, astronomers will be able to see even more visiting rocks. “I predict there will be a lot of these detected in the future,” says Meech.






The Walking Dead is back, and for us here at The Verge that’s an opportunity to examine just how effective the show can be in creating a complex villain. As played by Jeffrey Dean Morgan, big bad Negan has always been violent. But thanks to his man-baby antics, he’s stubbornly remained a comic book thug, never becoming the nuanced character the show so sorely needs.
Each week, I’ll be analyzing the show through its presentation of Negan: how he acts, how he delivers his jokes and threats, and most importantly, how his character develops in contrast to our supposedly-virtuous heroes. We’ll look at all the traits a villain is supposed to excel at, including those we detest, and boil it down into one single score on what we are calling the Negan-o-meter™. A score of 10 means he’s the best, most complex villain we’ve ever seen; a score of 0 means he’s pretty much the same ol’ Negan he’s always been.
Warning: There will be spoilers.
The current season of The Walking Dead has been an exercise in frustration. Halfway through the first set of episodes, its defining characteristic has been how it’s utterly ignored one of the only two characters the show has promised to focus on. Save for a few minutes in the season premiere, big-bad boogeyman Negan has been completely off the radar, leaving audiences to impatiently wonder what’s been going on since we last saw him and Father Gabriel trapped in a trailer, surrounded by zombies. In “The Big Bad U” that drought finally comes to end, picking up the unlikely pair’s storyline, while also flipping the script to show the season-opening attack from the point of view of the Saviors.
It’s a refreshing change of pace, and not just because it shifts the focus away from the protagonists after three straight episodes. With Negan’s return, The Walking Dead has the opportunity to demonstrate that it can make its villain more than just a mustache-twirling cartoon. Pleasantly, the writers actually deliver, making for one of the best episodes the show has produced in quite some time.
“The Big Bad U” opens just moments before the events of the season 8 premiere, as Negan and his lieutenants grill the Hilltop’s leader, Gregory. The flashback reveals that Gregory’s attempt to get his community to abandon Rick, Maggie, and the others was a sort of peace offering to Negan and the Saviors — though we know from previous episodes that the effort was ultimately futile. But when Negan’s lieutenant Simon suggests that if the Hilltop doesn’t fall in line the Saviors can simply wipe the community out, Negan slams his trusty bat against a metal table. “People are the foundation of what we’re building here,” he shouts, silencing the room.
It’s a moment for actor Jeffrey Dean Morgan to show off Negan’s more authoritative side without relying an over-the-top display of violence. Typically, Negan switches gears between locker room banter and excessive brutality, leaving little room for nuance. But the conversation shows exactly why Negan is exalted by his people: he has a strategic mind, and understands that winning people over is a smarter tactic that simply eliminating all who disagree. The point’s underscored when Negan lays out why publicly executing Rick, Maggie, and Ezekiel is a core part of his plan. “We kill the right people in the wrongest way possible, and we make them all watch,” he says.
Negan clearly has a psychopathic streak, but he also doesn’t resort to all-out violence at every opportunity, which makes him more dangerous than your standard authoritarian brute. Before they can continue strategizing, however, the sounds of Rick’s rifle ring out. From the season premiere, we know things didn’t turn out so well.
Up until now, Negan has been portrayed as a stubbornly opaque and shallow villain, characterized by his violence, the baseball bat he commits it with, and the fact that he runs a racketeering operation like a pre-apocalypse mob boss. Little time has been spent on why he acts the way he does and what drives him. We’ve seen a few flashes of his humanity, like the moment last season when he tried to impart some wisdom upon a murderous Carl. But viewers shouldn’t be blamed for assuming that Negan would immediately bash Father Gabriel’s head in when he finds himself trapped in a trailer with the priest.
What we get instead is a far more fascinating scene, one that digs into Negan’s character and humanizes him in a way no previous scene has accomplished. Though Negan immediately relieves Gabriel of his weapon, the two nevertheless have an instructive back and forth, with Gabriel convinced he has to take Negan’s confession. Perhaps seeing some strategic utility in having Gabriel as a hostage, Negan earns the man’s trust by opening up. We learn that Negan used to work with children, and that Lucille may actually be the name of his wife, that he lost to cancer. He let her turn into a walker in the earliest days of the outbreak, Negan says, because he couldn’t bring himself to lay her to rest himself.
Even after Gabriel tries to pull a firearm on Negan, the leader of Saviors still refuses to get violent, illustrating that he’s willing to go to great lengths to prove that he’s capable of pragmatism and mercy. Negan’s worldview and leadership style may be atrocious, but his ability to manipulate people is incredibly effective, and the scene culminates with the two drenching themselves in zombie guts and battling their way together to the Sanctuary.
While The Walking Dead has been more blunt with its moralizing with the Jesus and Morgan storyline, it takes a more subtle approach to the widening rift between Daryl and Rick. The two men have begun to take different paths in recent episodes, with Daryl on a merciless, take-no-prisoners rampage, and Rick dialing back the aggression. The philosophical difference results in blows when Daryl suggests using explosives to blow a hole in the Sanctuary to let zombies finish the job of wiping out the Saviors. Rick says killing innocent families and nonviolent workers isn’t part of the plan, echoing Jesus’ plea to Morgan that what separates them from the morally reprehensible is a willingness to spare bloodshed when given the opportunity.
Although it’s largely inconsequential — the two men struggle for a bit before Rick tosses the explosives into the flaming truck, rendering the conversation moot — it speaks to a greater rift among the coalition of communities fighting Negan. It would be a lot easier just to execute every enemy and use scorched Earth tactics to ensure they’re annihilated for good. But The Walking Dead has never really been a story about antiheroes. It flirts with the sins and moral descents of its main characters, but it always brings them back from the brink. Even if it’s more of an undercurrent rather than the main event, the show is ultimately about finding hope and the drive to regain some sense of normalcy. For Rick, that idea would now seem to be what differentiates him from Daryl, and the dynamic will almost certainly affect the two men’s character arcs as the season begins winding toward its conclusion.
While Negan and Gabriel are fighting their way back to Sanctuary, the Saviors are arguing over who to blame — and what to do if Negan is actually dead. Everyone is pointing fingers at someone else, with the existence of a traitor now fully acknowledged by all parties. The scene portrays the Saviors’ leadership as a roundtable of inadequate politicians, each suffering from a critical character flaw. Eugene is smart, but cowardly and awkward. Dwight is no-bullshit, but the others see him as a weak yes-man. Simon is domineering and animated — just like Negan — but always thinks violence is the answer.
When the lower-class workers storm in, demanding a solution to the predicament, the lieutenants crumble from infighting and indecision. Only when Negan shows up, with Gabriel in tow, does the entire situation calm down. As the workers each bend the knee to Negan, audibly thanking him for showing up to rescue them, Father Gabriel gets a firsthand look at the loyalty Negan’s mix of charisma and cruelty has instilled in his people. Dumbstruck by the Saviors’ faith to their leader, Gabriel allows himself to be peacefully hauled away to a cell while Negan tells the Saviors to put their trust in him.
Power: We saw Negan’s intimidating physicality in action in a variety of different scenarios in this episode, from his disarming of Gabriel in the trailer to his impressive zombie-fighting skills outside the Sanctuary. In one comical scene, Negan punches the priest squarely in the face for having pulled a gun on him earlier in the episode. The fact that Gabriel takes the hit, and even agrees to help Negan immediately thereafter, is yet another demonstration of his ability to assume control in almost any situation.
Charisma: From the moment Negan and Father Gabriel’s conversation turns toward their personal lives and sins, it’s clear that the priest is out of his depth. Negan manages to convince Gabriel that there’s more to his leadership style and worldview than meets the eye — neatly echoing the conversation Ezekiel had with Carol a few episodes back — and he even opens up about painful memories from his past. The throughline is Negan’s ever-present charisma, enabling him to earn the priest’s respect, as well as his assistance in breaking through the zombie horde.
Leadership: It may be easy to write off the devotion of the Saviors to Negan’s temperamental rule, but in this episode it becomes clear he’s actually quite good at reassuring his people that he knows best, and that he alone can solve any problem at hand. It lends a new meaning to the Saviors’ name and their narrative. People may fight when motivated by fear, but they’ll fight even harder when motivated by true belief, and throughout the episode it’s evident just how firm a grip Negan’s leadership skills have given him on the people that look up to him.
Final Takeaway: This was perhaps the best collection of Negan scenes since the character’s introduction, and for the first time this season I actually found myself hopeful. This is the kind of deeper dive that will make Negan truly compelling, and after weeks of no-shows it suggests that The Walking Dead can turn its “All Out War” saga into a more fascinating character study with protagonists, and villains, worth caring about.
Negan-o-meter™: 7 out of 10
If there was a moment fans have been waiting for this season, last night’s episode was it. The Walking Dead brought Negan back, and put him in a spotlight that he actually earned for once. Not only did we see many different sides to him, but we got our first morsel of backstory, something the character has desperately needed since his introduction roughly 18 months ago.
Moving forward, the recipe for keeping the show watchable should be simple: feature more episodes like “The Big Scary U” that actually portray Negan as a villain worth the endless push-and-pull. If the show really wants to get ambitious, it could even offer a flashback scene showing Negan pre-apocalypse, something that would go a long way toward rounding out his character. The actions of a hero like Rick Grimes are only as good as the villain he’s going up against, and the show needs to keep Negan in the mix every episode to keep that essential tension alive. Anything less will simply undercut the entire season, whether it’s the ballyhooed conflict at its core, or the broader themes about the bad things that good people will do in the name of survival.




The Sonos One may have only come out a few weeks ago, but Sonos is already putting its latest speaker on sale for $25 off, bringing the price down to $175 on Sonos’ website.
The Sonos One is Sonos’ first speaker with integrated smart assistants (Alexa for now, but Google Assistant support is promised for 2018), and this discount is the first time Sonos has offered a price cut on it. Given how rare Sonos hardware sales are, the fact that the company is offering any sort of discount this early in the product’s life cycle is pretty unusual.
Along with the Sonos One, there are also a bunch of sales on other members of the Sonos lineup, too, which are definitely worth taking a look at if you’re interested in building out your Sonos setup.
These deals go live on November 23rd at midnight local time in the US and Canada. The deals on the Sonos One, Playbase, and Playbar will run through November 27th, while the Play:1 and Play:3 deals are set to run “all season” while supplies last.


KFC has launched lots of gadgets in the past, and we've routinely covered them. But this past week, the fried chicken company introduced a different kind of gadget: a massive Faraday cage. The Internet Escape Pod, as KFC calls it, features a drumstick-shaped door handle with a massive Colonel Sanders atop it. The dome is constructed out of steel and stainless steel mesh, a high-density foam, and enamel paint. It weighs eight pounds. Only one model exists, however, so if you want it, you have to pay $10,000.
How badly do you need to escape from the internet? Could you just put your phone in a box under your bed and walk away, or do you need a $10,000 KFC-branded tent with a chicken leg for a handle? I'm not going to judge you for maybe wanting this, but yeah, I think you can probably cut yourself off from the internet for free.


iRobot has been continuously adding ways to make Roomba a more necessary part of connected homes since introducing the Roomba 980, its first Wi-Fi-connected model in 2015. Now, it’s introduced IFTTT functionality, adding 11 applets to further automate Roomba’s work around your home, as spotted by TechCrunch.
The functions range from actually practical to why. As of now, the most popular ones are the most practical, like “When I answer a call, pause Roomba,” and “When I leave home, start a cleaning job.” Unsurprisingly, no one as of yet has chosen to add “Post a Tweet when Roomba finishes a cleaning job.”
IFTTT — short for "if this, then that" — was created as a simple way to connect different internet services together for automated processes. For example, there are applets that let you tweet your Instagram photos as natively embedded images instead of an Instagram link, or automatically turn on your Hue lights at sunset. It’s a way to simplify and create one-button shortcuts for some of your most-used web interactions.
In the quest to make the cleaning robots as connected as possible, both Alexa and Google Home integration were added to Roomba earlier this year, and also came under some backlash when it was discovered that iRobot would consider sharing the maps that Roomba creates as it cleans around your home. The CEO later clarified that customers will retain complete control over if and how their data is shared.


Texas Rangers have served Apple with a search warrant for data from deceased Sutherland Springs gunman Devin Patrick Kelley, who killed 26 people in a Texas church earlier this month.
The San Antonio Express-News reports that the warrant covers files stored in Kelley’s iCloud account, with law enforcement apparently seeking phone call and message information, photos and videos, and other data dating back to January 1st, 2016. Another warrant allows law enforcement to look for this data independently on an iPhone SE found near Kelley’s body. (A separate warrant covers data on a second device, which court records identify as an LG feature phone.) The warrants were obtained on November 9th, two days after the FBI complained that encryption had prevented it from accessing the shooter’s phone.
Apple’s policies state that it will share iCloud data with law enforcement agencies if there’s a valid warrant. Depending on how frequently Kelley created backups using iCloud, there may be additional information on the phone itself, but Apple has refused past requests to directly access devices — the company went to court last year to avoid unlocking a phone belonging to San Bernardino shooter Syed Farook, until the FBI successfully hacked the phone without its help, rendering the case moot.
The FBI has used the Sutherland Springs shooting to argue that strong encryption is hurting law enforcement’s ability to investigate crimes, saying it was “working very hard to get into the phone.” Later reports indicated that it did not reach out to Apple within a 48-hour period during which Kelley’s fingerprint might have unlocked the phone via Touch ID.
Apple declined to comment on pending law enforcement matters, including whether it had provided iCloud data to the Texas Rangers. However, a spokesperson said that the company had not received any law enforcement agency request for technical help (like unlocking) related to Kelley’s phone.
Update 2:30PM ET: A person familiar with the matter has clarified that Apple received only a warrant for iCloud content, not iCloud and iPhone data. A more general warrant was issued separately to allow law enforcement to access the phone.


This past weekend, Justice League finally landed in theaters. The movie was meant to be Warner Bros.’ answer to The Avengers; the crowning achievement of the DC Extended Universe. But those plans hit some speed bumps along the way. Batman v. Superman wasn’t the level of hit the studio was hoping for, and Suicide Squad was disastrous on a critical and financial level. Wonder Woman director Patty Jenkins did deliver the kind of cultural-zeitgeist blockbuster the studio was looking for, but she did it by ditching the style, tone, and storyline the previous DC films had all been built upon. Then, in perhaps the most drastic blow of all, Justice League director Zack Snyder stepped down earlier this year for personal reasons, leaving Joss Whedon in charge of reshoots and finishing the film.
Now that audiences have finally seen the DC superheroes team up, we’re going to sit down and chat about the good, the bad, and the lovingly-photographed-in-impossibly-slow-motion of Justice League.
Fair warning: this is a no-holds-barred, all-spoilers-allowed conversation. The spoiler-conscious review is here.
Bryan: Going into this film, I had a lot of questions. Would the movie make amends for the incredibly frustrating Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice? Would seeing these characters on-screen together make up for the haphazard, forced way Warner Bros. and DC tried to reverse-engineer this team-up? Would Snyder’s absence be felt, for better or worse? And perhaps most importantly of all, how would it leave me feeling at the end? Would I be excited for more adventures of the Justice League, or would I be eager for a world of standalone DC movies that didn’t bother with establishing links in the first place?
Tasha: Those are good questions. Mine were mostly whether the film would squander all the good will Wonder Woman brought on, by dropping the humor and humanity that movie brought into the DCEU. And then there’s the question Thor: Ragnarok raises, the question I ask every time a new Marvel movie out-performs a DC film at the box office: Has DC finally learned something about why Marvel movies get so much praise?
Bryan: Justice League answered my last question clearly: bring on the standalone movies as soon as possible, please, and make them star Ezra Miller’s The Flash. I have a feeling it’s going to be fashionable to both hate this movie, and to talk about how fun it is in contrast to the last few Snyder films. (And it is that.) But I don’t think I’ve been this uninvested and flat-out bored in a theater since, well, Suicide Squad. Justice League is funny at times — but set within a story that clearly wants to be drenched in darkness. It leans heavily on characters we’ve never met in this incarnation, and it expects us to know, love, and understand them. Those we do know say things that give the impression they’ll eventually go on some sort of emotional journey, but that never fully manifests. I even found the film visually inconsistent, with certain sequences exhibiting the kind of glossy, stylistic sheen Snyder has built his career on, while others look like they were shot as part of a TV show. Justice League really was like The Avengers of DC’s cinematic world — it just decided to amp up all the weaknesses rather than the strengths.
Tasha: There’s a lot to unpack in that response, but let’s start with the characters’ unfamiliarity. I had a much more positive reaction to this film than you did, and maybe that’s because I don’t consider these characters unfamiliar. Yes, Batman v. Superman only gave us a quick hint about Ezra Miller’s Flash, in a sort of dream-sequence-slash-future-warning that doesn’t pay off at all in Justice League. And this is our first introduction to the DC cinematic world’s Aquaman (Jason Momoa) and Cyborg (Ray Fisher). But I know these characters from so many other DC iterations, and I’m so tired of origin stories. I am perfectly fine with blitzing past Aquaman’s tragic history as an abandoned child of Atlantis, in a quickie speech, then moving on. I enjoyed the Flash/Cyborg “So, you were struck by lightning?” conversation, which is ludicrous, incredibly Joss Whedon-y, and about as much as I need to hear about Flash’s origin story this time around. Yes, it feels like DC jumped the gun by trying to get to The Avengers without setting up these characters with their own films first. But there have been so many superhero movies about origins and angst and the tragic loneliness of power. Did you really want to go through all that again? Don’t we already know enough about these characters to understand the stakes in a movie that’s mostly about them fighting an angry CGI effect to get their hands on some glowing CGI hoobajoobs?
Bryan: I don’t need elaborate origin stories by any means — I think we’re all tired of that. What I do require, just for baseline emotional investment, is characters with a point of view, an emotional journey, and a simple reason for existing beyond a studio executive wanting them all on a poster. And that’s where Justice League fails, while almost all the Marvel movies succeed. Aquaman is literally just a DothrakiBro. In one (admittedly hilarious) scene, he gets roped up by Wonder Woman’s lasso and tells the audience exactly who his character is, which would be amazing if it weren’t so lazy. And as somebody with no foreknowledge of Cyborg, I couldn’t find anything in the movie to latch onto. He’s dealing with the funk that comes with being turned into a half-robot creature by a maniac of a father, but it’s hard to care about that funk when I haven’t seen who he was before, and what he’s lost. It also makes his pseudo-arc ring totally hollow. He eventually becomes okay with his transformation, I guess? I can’t entirely tell. These are action figures, swapped in and out to deliver one-liners.
The exception is The Flash. I kept picturing Fran Kranz in this role, and he probably would have been, if this movie had been made 15 years ago. But the reason Miller’s character stands out is because he actually has a clearly articulated internal struggle over his imprisoned dad, and it pays off beyond Saving The World. I think those issues stood out for me so starkly because it seemed like they were trying to compensate for a larger story that just simply wasn’t there. This film begins and ends like it’s going to be about the impact of the death of Superman in Dawn of Justice, but aside from some thematic throwaway lines, I never felt like it dealt with this topic. How did you feel about the movie’s handling of the Man of Steel?
Tasha: Least favorite thing about a movie I otherwise largely enjoyed. I think there’s an interesting, painful emotional resonance in “The world cannot survive without a Superman” themes, because we the audience have to survive in a world without a Superman. (Granted, we’re not dealing with periodic alien invasion.) But you’re right, this feels like the movie wants to address the impact of Superman’s death, and it doesn’t get very deeply into it. Among other things, I’m baffled as to why Superman’s death sets off Steppenwolf’s attack, since it seems like the world went thousands of years without a Superman (or any individual high-powered defender), and that didn’t trigger an invasion. That aside, there’s so much character-development potential in Batman’s journey from “There’s a remote chance of Superman going bad, so he must die” in Batman v. Superman to “We need Superman, so it’s worth the risk of resurrecting him as an unstoppable murder-machine” here. But the script blitzes past the weight of that decision, and the ridiculous resurrection process itself, to get to the big hero-on-hero fight where Superman battles the Justice League.
So that battle sequence… in isolation, it’s straight-up exciting. The frozen look of shock and terror on Flash’s face when he realizes Superman can track him at super-speed came pretty close to justifying that sequence for me. But it’s all so arbitrary and sloppy on a moment-to-moment basis, especially in terms of zombie-Superman’s mental capacity. Having Cyborg’s armor categorize him as a threat and attack him to set off the fight is an inane bit of contrivance. The “Well, we’ll just fight him to make him stop fighting!” sequence that follows makes everyone involved look dumb. I thought maybe the fight made sense if Superman had no memories and was reacting on an animal basis, but then we find out that he does remember who he is, and can think and talk, but still decides to kill everyone — because why? Because they stole his shirt? Stupider reasons have been kludged together to make superheroes fight each other, but it never gets easier to watch our supposed role models, the best of the best, doing imbecilic things, not even because the plot demands it (since this entire fight could be excised without any impact whatsoever on the story), but because fandom loves watching hero-on-hero battles. It’s good that it’s over with now and Superman’s back in the mix, but I wish the entire resurrection plan could have been saved for the next film, and given some serious thought and attention. Packing so many storylines into this one means not giving any of them full attention or worthwhile service.
Bryan: Couldn’t agree more. As a general rule, the DC films have had a problem of trying to cram in too much story — though the two-hour running time of this movie was certainly a blessing when compared to Snyder’s last couple of films. But the bizarre treatment of Superman is what made me wonder where the line is between the movie Snyder wanted to make, and the one Whedon reshot and finished. The easiest tell for “reshoot or original” is Superman’s face. Henry Cavill grew a mustache for another movie when it came time for the two months of Justice League reshoots, and the movie had to digitally remove his facial hair to solve the problem. I found the results… problematic. As in, there seemed to be only two scenes in the entire film where I wasn’t wondering what was wrong with Superman’s face.
Tasha: I honestly didn’t notice it! I know that’s weird to you, but everyone in this movie already looks like an inhuman special effect to me, between Momoa and Cavill’s immense bulging muscles and negative-12 percent body fat, and Miller and Gadot’s glass-cut cheekbones, and Cyborg being 90 percent costume. I really did not register Cavill’s face looking odd and inhuman, because to me, his normal face already looks like a video game model!
Bryan: Well, I couldn’t stop noticing it. And for me, that was a continual reminder of how confused the movie is. And perhaps more importantly, how the finished product doesn’t mesh with everything that came before it. I actually wound up reminiscing about the coherence and thematic throughlines of Man of Steel and Dawn of Justice. Which really says something about Justice League, because neither of those two films were coherent in the slightest.
Tasha: …okay, you’re definitely going to need to justify that claim for me. To me, Man of Steel was a grimdark mess about how maybe Earth is too judgmental or inherently evil for heroes, but it needs them anyway — hence leaning extra-hard on the Christ imagery, except for the part where our Jesus-substitute destroys a city full of people because he can’t figure out that taking the fight to space would save lives. And Dawn of Justice turns Batman into a torturer and would-be cold-blooded killer and has both Superman and Batman acting like sulky children defending their chunk of playground. One of Justice League’s greatest achievements was getting away from the badly handled, muddied existential questions of What Heroism Means and just getting to some swagger and action. It’s a much more coherent film for me, because there’s only one villain (post-credits scene aside) and it’s a simple fight with simple stakes, instead of a film about Questioning The Darkness Inside All Of Us in a clunky way. What are you recalling in those films that makes them better than Justice League for you?
Bryan: It’s simply a matter of intent, and the Whedon-Snyder Justice League has none. As clunky as Man of Steel’s Christ imagery was, and as forced as the Batman v. Superman “Martha” reveal came off, those films dealt with specific ideas, building toward a specific conclusion. Snyder was interested in humanity’s need for savior figures, and how that instinct could be exploited, and ultimately undone, by our own fears of “the other.” Justice League appeared poised to deliver on that with a true redemption arc: Superman is killed saving humanity from Doomsday, only to rise again. Clunky as hell, yes, but a resolution that would nevertheless have tied the three films together. (The fact that dirt began to vibrate off Clark Kent’s coffin at the end of Dawn of Justice even suggested a self-resurrection was in the cards.) Instead, as you say, we get a resurrection that makes no sense, and a movie that seems to throw things together simply because fandom likes watching heroes fight.
I know we’re talking about the most popcorn of popcorn movies, but audiences deserve better. I’ll take an overlong, pretentious movie that is at least trying to have a point over one that’s simply trying to check boxes and get through two hours without making anybody too upset. That’s how this movie landed for me: Whedon added some quirky laughs to a movie that was stripped of its reason for existing. It feels like a movie designed to prevent fans from getting too upset, all so Warner Bros. and DC can step in with their new game plan because they decided the DC expanded universe was dead long before they publicly admitted it.
Tasha: In my reading, Justice League is fundamentally about individuals getting over themselves and choosing to act collectively. Aquaman wants to be left alone with the small causes he’s chosen, and is secretly afraid he doesn’t belong anywhere. (Why don’t the parademons react to that fear?) Flash is inexperienced and terrified of all the threats he’s never faced before. (Why don’t the parademons react to that fear?) Cyborg is afraid he’s losing his humanity, his mind, and control over his body. (Blah blah parademons fear… which I wouldn’t bring up, except they’re so hypersensitive to Steppenwolf’s first flicker of insecurity at the end. Maybe his fear tastes better?) As Batman points out, Wonder Woman is still in mourning for Steve Trevor, and has chosen to withdraw from leadership because she doesn’t want to inspire people to their deaths. (That’s a little clunky, but I’m glad they at least tried to explain her disappearance from the world post World War I.)
And Batman isn’t afraid, but he’s certainly conscious that he’s mortal and fragile, compared to all these super-people casually getting thrown through walls and floors. For me, this wasn’t the origin story of any one hero, it was the origin story of a team, and the connecting thread is the way they all have to face their own tendencies to withdraw and hide, and find something bigger and brighter than themselves in the idea of cooperation and friendship. I would have been fine without Superman in this movie, because if those past Superman movies are about humanity’s savior complex, Justice League is about stepping up and accepting the responsibility of power, which he’s already done to a degree the rest of them haven’t. That’s a much more Whedon-y theme, and one I find a lot more interesting.
Bryan: I wish the movie had worked as well for me as it did for you, because it sounds like you had a much better time in the theater. But even then, things aren’t all bad. Gal Gadot comes out of the movie unscathed, and the punch she lands on Batman after he taunts her about Steve Trevor is one of the more satisfying one-off moments of the movie. While Affleck’s new jokester Batman felt all over the place for me tonally, I still find him surprisingly solid in the role. He’s no Christian Bale (or Michael Keaton, for that matter), but his kind of generic, leading-man energy fits in perfectly for the kind of movie this is. And while I’ve mentioned him a couple of times already, I really do need to highlight Ezra Miller’s performance as The Flash once again. The riffing, the stammering; the awkward, I’d-rather-not-be-here energy… for me, he was the highlight of the film, and the best example of Whedon’s sensibilities fitting into the larger film, rather than clashing with it. He’s one of several new characters sharing the spotlight, though — which one did you respond to the most?
Tasha: Cyborg, honestly. Part of that is because of all the DC characters questioning why they have to be heroes, he seems to have the most reason. There’s some deeply flawed logic in the baseline of this story, and the way they all come together, and Cyborg is the most obvious example: Lex Luthor identified as a possible exploitable asset based entirely on a fragmentary shot of him screaming and limbless in a lab? But I enjoyed Fisher’s intense, pained performance, and the character’s design. And as crudely handled as his not-quite-an-arc is, I still thought it was pretty gratifying when he let himself enjoy his powers, instead of regarding them as threats to his humanity.
But I had a lot of emotional response to things in this movie that don’t seem to have touched you at all. I found the original battle against Steppenwolf surprisingly rousing, with its Green Lantern and Shazam cameos and its reminder of a lost mythic era of Earth. The Amazons’ valiant but doomed attempt to keep the first Mother Box out of Steppenwolf’s hands was an impressive piece of action that respected the power of the warriors we learned to respect in Wonder Woman. Ezra Miller didn’t do much for me — from his familial angst to his “Yay, I’m joining a team!” giddiness to his nervousness and effectiveness in battle, he reminded me way too much of Tom Holland in Captain America: Civil War and Spider-Man: Homecoming. And his “I’m afraid of everything that’s part of this battle!” speech was way too Xander-comedy to work for me in this setting. But I love how effectively and efficiently Batman has his number, with the “Save one person” order that gets Flash in the game and lets him see that he can save everyone, and be proud of himself doing it. For that matter, I wound up liking this Batman so much more than the grim-n-grunty hater who, let us never forget, burns bat-symbols into criminals’ flesh in Batman v. Superman, because Zack Snyder is a grinning sadist. This Batman is human, and he knows it. He faces likely death every time he goes into battle with all these supers, and he doesn’t make a big deal about it, but the awareness is clear and palpable.
Finally, I’m glad to see these superheroes focusing so much on saving civilians’ lives. All this cinematic superhero hoo-rah is finally acknowledging that being a hero means caring about individual lives and saving people on an individual level, not just punching world-destruction-engines to death. Did none of that touch or impress you? Did nothing in Justice League thrill you, even on an atavistic level?
Bryan: It didn’t impress me, actually, and it’s undoubtedly why I found the movie so tedious. There are moments that certainly played (the Godot Bat-punch, the slow-mo Flash sequences, Aquaman’s truth-lasso confession), and I enjoyed some individual performance beats. But from the very first shot, when Superman shows up in some smartphone footage with that godawful weird CG mouth they put on him, the film seems dedicated to showing us all its ugly seams. The tonal shifts, the visual changes, the random cutaways to that nameless family,  the odd way the bookends seemed designed for a totally different film (and probably were); it played so poorly for me that at times I actually felt like I was watching a comedy about a botched superhero movie rather than a superhero movie. Not quite to the degree where I’m willing to call it Plan 9 From Krypton or Tommy Wiseau’s The Justice League, but it comes awfully close.
But I keep thinking back to what you said earlier in our conversation: that a lot of these characters and situations played much better for you because you came in with a level of emotional investment that I lacked. I think there’s something to be said for looking at this movie through the lens of its intended audience. I have no pre-existing feelings about Green Lantern, so that cameo just played like Warner Bros. and DC once again trying to hard-sell me on the idea of an expanded universe without really earning it. But for a different viewer, that could be a moment of delight. Snyder’s films — and I’m not really considering this Snyder’s film, no matter what credits the DGA doled out — have always agitated fans. The darkness and tone never seemed to complement the characters he was tasked with bringing to the big screen. Justice League, however, seems to go in the opposite direction. I criticized it earlier for being neutered in the name of not making DC fans any angrier — but for the DC fans out there who are frustrated, that might actually be a good thing. Despite my own problems, I can definitely see why this could be the most satisfying DC movie for audiences in quite some time — other than Wonder Woman, that is. How long do we have to wait for that sequel again?


Uber will buy up to 24,000 XC90 SVUs from Volvo to form a fleet of driverless vehicles, reports Bloomberg. The XC90s, which start at $45,750, will be delivered between 2019 and 2021. The base vehicles feature core autonomous driving technologies that will enable Uber to add its own automation features as well, Volvo says. “This new agreement puts us on a path towards mass produced self-driving vehicles at scale,” Jeff Miller, head of auto alliances at Uber said in a statement.
Volvo said engineers from both companies developed the XC90 premium SUVs supplied to Uber. Uber has been spotted testing its self-driving Volvo XC90 SUVs before in Pittsburgh, and the company has had a strategic partnership with Volvo since August 2016. Uber also has a small fleet of self-driving Ford Fusions.
Volvo is also planning to release it own first fully autonomous car in 2021, and will also use the same base model vehicle in development. “The automotive industry is being disrupted by technology and Volvo Cars chooses to be an active part of that disruption,” said Håkan Samuelsson, president and chief executive of Volvo in a statement. “Our aim is to be the supplier of choice for AD ride-sharing service providers globally.”
Uber has suffered through a number of issues in developing its automated cars. The company’s self-driving cars in Arizona got into a pretty serious crash in March this year. The company also launched a self-driving Uber service in San Francisco in December 2016, but that got yanked shortly after because the company failed to properly register its fleet of 16 vehicles. Emails showed that Uber dismissed warnings about that self-driving test for months. To add more pain, Waymo, Google’s self-driving car company, is suing Uber for allegedly stealing the underlying technology for its vehicles, and that case is about to head to trial. Waymo also became the first company to put a fully self-driving vehicle on US roads without a safety driver earlier this month, pipping Uber to the post.





There haven’t been many updates on Apple’s iMac Pro since it was first announced back at WWDC in June. However, over the weekend, news broke from the internet’s favorite Apple firmware gurus Steven Troughton-Smith and Guilherme Rambo that the upcoming pro desktop computer will feature an A10 Fusion coprocessor.
Based on the leaked code, which has been compiled and explained by Jonathan Levin, it seems the A10 Fusion chip will enable two interesting new features. The first is the ability for the iMac Pro to feature always-on “Hey, Siri” voice command support, similar to what’s currently available on more recent iPhone devices. The news seems all but confirmed: Rambo has posted a video of the feature working on a Mac.
Confirmed: "Hey, Siri" is coming to the Mac pic.twitter.com/Dw9bRAzbxD
But, as Pepijn Bruienne pointed out, the bigger implication of the A10 Fusion is for a less user-facing function, with Apple likely to use the coprocessor to enable SecureBoot on the iMac Pro. In more practical terms, it means that Apple will be using the A10 Fusion chip to handle the initial boot process and confirm that software checks out, before passing things off to the regular x86 Intel processor in your Mac.
It’s not something that will likely change how you use your computer too much, like the addition of “Hey, Siri” support will, but it’s a move toward Apple experimenting with an increased level of control over its software going forward.


Uber has added a few new features right before the holidays that should make getting a ride for you or a friend a bit easier. The ride-hailing service has added live location sharing, which will allow your driver to see your location once you tap the gray icon on the bottom right of the screen. This can be helpful when you’re walking to your pickup location so your driver isn’t left in the dark.
Beacons are also being expanded (now available in New York, Chicago, and San Francisco), helping you identify your ride in a sea of Ubers. The company has also updated its guest hailing feature, allowing you to hail rides for friends or family members and let them communicate with the driver via text, so you aren’t stuck in the middle. Simply tap “where to,” and you’ll be able to add a different rider at the top of the screen.
Finally, Uber has added in-app gifting, so you can send Uber credits to your friends without having to leave the app. It’s a nice way to tell that family member who’s ruining dinner it’s time to go. The new features are available today.


Last week, I visited the lava planet Mustafar, infiltrated an Imperial base as a stormtrooper, battled alongside the cantankerous droid K-2SO, and collected data on a piece of secret Imperial cargo that could have far-reaching ramifications for the fate of the galaxy. And I did it all without ever leaving a tiny warehouse in Glendale, California.
What I experienced was Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire, the much-anticipated collaboration between virtual reality park designers The Void and ILMxLAB, the immersive entertainment wing of Lucasfilm and Industrial Light & Magic. From the moment the companies announced they were working together on a Star Wars-based VR adventure, with locations opening in both California and Florida, expectations have been high. In projects like Ghostbusters: Dimension, The Void has demonstrated that its combination of free-roaming VR and physical mazes offer a unique form of entertainment, while xLAB has been breaking new emotional and narrative ground with pieces like Alejandro González Iñárritu’s museum installation Carne y Arena. And then there’s that whole Star Wars element — with Secrets of the Empire opening just as fans hit peak hype for Rian Johnson’s The Last Jedi.
Having gone through a prototype version of the experience in that Glendale warehouse, it’s clear that this experience does more than just deliver on those lofty expectations. For mainstream audiences, Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire may be the first time virtual reality actually delivers on the Holodeck-esque potential it’s been promising all along.
Secrets of the Empire starts with a briefing. Groups of up to four guests are shown a video from Rogue One’s Cassian Andor (Diego Luna). There’s a piece of Imperial cargo that’s been brought to the planet Mustafar, he says, and while he was originally going to retrieve it, he’s now under attack. It’s up to the group of guests to go undercover as stormtroopers and get the job done. From there, audience members suit up with a custom head-mounted display, lightweight backpack computer, and a haptic vest, and step into an adjoining room. Pull down the headset, and the real world melts away: where other participants were a moment ago, stormtroopers now stand.
The storyline is exactly what any Star Wars fan would hope for: the group of participants infiltrate the base, get into some skirmishes, and after a couple of lucky escapes (and a big surprise), make their way out having more or less accomplished the mission. But what The Void does well is create the illusion of truly being in a virtual world by pairing physical sets, props, and sensations with the VR visuals. Secrets of the Empire uses that combination to ground the experience right from the beginning. As I stepped into a transport, K-2SO (Alan Tudyk, also reprising his role) suggested I sit down on the ship’s bench — and sure enough, there was a physical bench waiting for me when I did. When I waved my hands in front of my face, there they were, clad in the white-and-black gloves of a stormtrooper. Moments later, when I stood on a skiff approaching the Imperial facility, I felt the heat from the lava below, while the smoky smell of Mustafar’s atmosphere filled my nostrils. Later, when engaged in a firefight with stormtroopers, I felt a sharp haptic buzz whenever I caught a stray blaster bolt — not painful, but not exactly pleasant, either.
There’s a tremendous amount of fun just in the pure discovery of the experience: the realization that I could chatter along with the people I was playing with (“I have a bad feeling about this”), or that there was a Han Solo-esque workaround to a puzzle that I couldn’t crack. But breaking it down into those kind of singular moments seems reductive, because more than anything else, Secrets of the Empire legitimately feels like starring in a Star Wars movie or TV show of your very own. Part of that is the length. From the briefing to the moment you remove the gear at the end, the experience runs roughly 30 minutes, so there’s some heft to it. Another component is the tactile reality that The Void creates, paired with the sense of independence that comes from being able to walk around a virtual location without any perceived restrictions or limitations. The Void uses design sleight of hand and misdirection to guide guests through relatively small physical spaces that feel massive and epic in the virtual world. It’s an illusion, but an incredibly effective one that creates a compelling sense of autonomy and agency.
But even that can only get you so far. Star Wars is a universe that’s ultimately defined by that kinds of stories it tells. And whether I was quickly ducking into a blasted-open passageway, furiously trading blaster fire with a group of stormtroopers above me, or facing what seemed like certain doom at the climax of the piece, Secrets of the Empire nailed the feeling of being inside the universe completely.
“The important thing was, how can I bring a real person into the Star Wars universe and have them be a part of the story, but also be able to make their own kind of story within ours,” Lucasfilm Story Group executive and xLAB content strategist Diana Williams tells me. The events of Secrets of the Empire are canon in the larger universe, and while the narrative is fixed, it’s the nature of the medium that every individual who goes through will have their own unique experience based on what they do, how they react, and who they go in with. It creates a unique opportunity for replayability — even at $29.95 per ticket — with guests able to experience different elements or even take on different duties in certain scenes depending on how aggressively they choose to play.
Initially, Secrets of the Empire will open in two standalone locations. The first will be at Disney Springs at Walt Disney World starting on December 16th, which will be capable of serving around a thousand guests per day across two different stages. A single-stage location will then open at the Disneyland-adjacent Downtown Disney complex in California on January 5th. But The Void will also be opening a two-stage pop-up at the Westfield mall in London for a 12-week run on December 16th, with the location later moving to a different Westfield for subsequent 12-week runs. That’s aside from future locations that The Void CEO Cliff Plumer says are also on the way.
“We'll be announcing more locations that are opening up, but I always say, I like to think of us almost like a Cirque de Soleil,” he says. “There's those flagship locations, and then we have traveling shows.”
The Void currently has locations in Toronto, Utah, and New York, and briefly opened a center in Dubai. But it’s easy to see how the high-profile nature of the Star Wars partnership, together with the pop-up strategy, will expose more people than ever to its unique flavor of virtual reality. It’s coming at a crucial time. The hype wave from the launch of at-home VR dissipated some time ago, and the industry focus has increasingly turned toward location-based solutions like the IMAX VR arcades that the company is currently piloting at movie theaters. But even those are often just souped-up versions of experiences that are already available to VR users at home. The Void, on the other hand, is poised to deliver on the kind of active, full-bodied experience that has largely been the ideal of VR, even if it’s rarely been reached.
That’s not to say Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire is flawless, by any means. I found the hand tracking to be inconsistent, with my virtual hands appearing smoothly at some moments, while remaining stubbornly nonexistent at others. In a scene that required me to hit a number of buttons in sequence in order to escape a room, the tracking between the physical and the digital seemed so misaligned that I was unable to solve the puzzle altogether. And while the visuals are quite good, we are simply not in the realm of photorealism yet.
Those ultimately feel like minor quibbles, though, particularly when something delivers so fully on the most essential promise of all: letting guests feel like they’re actually stepping inside Star Wars. And for ILMxLAB, the project feels like the first real step in delivering on the group’s larger vision of using virtual reality, mixed reality, and other platforms as legitimate extensions of the Star Wars universe. As it turns out, the lynchpin there could be that mysterious cargo that Cassian Andor was so intent on rescuing from the Empire, and that is ultimately revealed in the final moments of Secrets of the Empire.
I ask Williams about the item, given that I didn’t recognize it from any of the films or canon materials. “Hold onto that thought,” she says with a smile. “Lucasfilm Story Group — we are very deliberate in everything that we're putting together in terms of stories. Across all platforms.”
Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire is priced at $29.95. Tickets are available now.


Back in August, DJI launched a bug bounty program meant to reward researchers who came to the company with security vulnerabilities they had discovered. This approach to cybersecurity is now widespread, with big companies like Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo running their own programs, and smaller companies relying on platforms like Bugcrowd and HackerOne.
Unfortunately for DJI, its effort to work with white hat hackers is already causing controversy. Kevin Finisterre, a security researcher whose earlier work on DJI security made headlines, published a long essay yesterday detailing his negative experiences with DJI’s bug bounty program. By this morning, it was on the top of Hacker News, a widely read forum in the US tech community.
Finisterre, along with a collective of hackers he works with, found a very serious flaw in DJI’s web security. They were able to obtain the private key for its SSL certificate, which DJI had accidentally published on GitHub, allowing them access to sensitive customer information stored on DJI’s servers. He asked DJI if this problem was within the scope of its bug bounty, and the company confirmed it was. So Finisterre wrote up and submitted a detailed report. DJI approved of the work and offered him a $30,000 bounty, their highest reward.
But things broke down in the contract DJI sent Finisterre before he could collect. It asked, in essence, that he not discuss details of the work he had done publicly, or that he had done security work for DJI at all. For a researcher like Finisterre, the public recognition of the work is often as valuable as the monetary reward. As they haggled over the contract, DJI’s legal team sent a letter referencing the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which Finisterre interpreted as a thinly veiled threat. He decided to walk away from the money and go public with his experience.
“Despite all of the progress we’ve made over the last 4 years, it’s still relatively novel for organizations to partner with the research community through a bug bounty. It’s not uncommon for organizations who launch without preparation to become overwhelmed by the sheer number of high impact issues — which appears to be a significant part of the problem here,” says Jonathan Cran, the VP of product at Bugcrowd, a bug bounty platform.
“We would recommend DJI fix the issues as soon as possible and not pursue legal action. Based on the information we have today, this appears to be a misunderstanding and not malicious in its intent,” Cran says. “Bug bounties deliver extremely high quality results at unparalleled cost — but as we emphasize to our customers, you need a partner.”
There are examples of bug bounty programs that require researchers to strict non-disclosure agreements. Companies like Apple and United Airlines all ask researchers to stay fairly tight-lipped. But that restriction is made clear before the research invests time in finding, reporting out, and submitting a bug. And some public credit is usually given.
After Finisterre published his account, DJI launched an official website for its bug bounty program and made its terms and conditions clear for anyone who wants to participate. Time will tell if it can mend relations with the researcher community and build a bounty program that works for both sides.







OnePlus is one of those beguiling companies that seem to promise impossibly wonderful things. Flagship products at budget prices. The assiduous elegance of an iPhone at the attainable cost of a midrange Motorola. It’s a company that constantly flirts with the “too good to be true” label, sometimes delivering on its lofty claims and at other times failing to live up to its own hype.
I like the new OnePlus 5T for many of the same reasons that I like OnePlus itself. This device is full of all the right ideas — hardware design, software responsiveness, and overall usability — and if I were tasked with the job of assembling a phone, my specification would read a lot like the OnePlus 5T does on paper. In practice, this phone isn’t the total fulfillment of every objective that OnePlus set for itself, nor every promise the company has made. But it’s damn close. It takes the imperfect OnePlus 5 from five months ago and fixes much of what ailed it. This is the most refined OnePlus phone yet.
At a starting price of $499, the OnePlus 5T combines many of the most sought-after flagship features and specs of 2017 inside a design that’s as handsome and high-end as any Galaxy S or iPhone competitor. The cost is more than any OnePlus phone before it, but in the current era of $1,000 flagships from Samsung and Apple, it seems a very fair price.
If you know me, you’ll know how long I’ve been writing phone reviews and how difficult it is for any new product to impress me. The OnePlus 5T is that rare device that made me pause and appreciate its premium feel as I was unboxing it. The packaging is perfectly standard for OnePlus — that’s not what did it — but the phone itself is so beautifully dominated by the 6-inch OLED display, with neatly symmetrical bezels at top and bottom just holding the thing together.
The sense evoked by the 5T’s design is one of efficiency and optimization, and comparing this new device against anything previous from OnePlus, even the five-month-old OnePlus 5, makes the older model feel inadequate. You’re free to disagree, and you might think I’m overreacting to the thin-bezel craze that OnePlus is now participating in, but I challenge you to think forward a few months. Thin-bezel phones are quickly going to take over the market, and anyone stuck with a fat-bezel device will feel behind the curve. This OnePlus 5T looks lovely today and I can be confident in saying it will still look modern and fresh a year from now.
The move of the fingerprint sensor from the front to the back of the phone has been a total triumph. Covered by a smooth ceramic, the reader sits exactly where you’d find it on Google’s Pixels and LG’s G6 and V30: horizontally centered and a third of the way down. I find it perfectly usable and reliable, but for those situations where you might still want to access the phone without lifting it off a table to ID yourself, OnePlus has also added a new Face Unlock feature to the 5T. I’ve found Face Unlock both delightful and frustrating, like most other face-identification systems thus far. (More on that later.) The important thing is that OnePlus has preempted a complaint, while at the same time feature-matching The iPhone X’s Face ID.
After the LG V30, which I reviewed last month, the OnePlus 5T is the second phone I’ve had the pleasure of handling with a 6-inch screen crammed inside the frame of a 5.5-inch handset. The 5T is scarcely any larger than its predecessor OnePlus 5, which means it’s big, but not overwhelmingly so. Single-handed use of a 6-inch phone still sounds futuristic to me, but the V30, Samsung’s Galaxy S8 Plus, Xiaomi’s Mi Mix 2, and now the OnePlus 5T have all accomplished it (even if the 18:9 aspect ratio breaks the screen size math a little bit).
I have been using a Google Pixel 2 XL most recently, and coming from that hulking device to the leaner and smoother 5T makes a tangible difference. The 2 XL feels blocky without the tapered sides of the 5T, and the difference in heft seems bigger than it is — 175g on the Pixel, 162g on the 5T — because of the better weight distribution of the OnePlus device. Am I saying OnePlus has done a better design job than Google? Yes, absolutely.
My sole complaint about the OnePlus 5T’s industrial design is the camera bump. It’s taller than it was on the OnePlus 5, which the company explains as having been caused by the screen occupying more space inside the phone. The 5’s camera module was built into the space that sat behind bezel on the front, whereas the new camera system resides behind the screen, and so it protrudes a couple of millimeters more. I now find the bump just large enough to be noticeable and to irritate me, though I’m conscious that most people won’t be as nitpicky as I am, and many will put a case on the phone anyway. One thing I do know from the earlier OnePlus 5, though: the camera protrusion ends up collecting a ton of scratches and scuffs, so if you’re not a case person, prepare yourself mentally for some very rapid wear and tear there.
Beside punching above its weight in design, the OnePlus 5T also happens to have one of the better displays on the market today. My initial reaction upon hearing that this device has a 6-inch 18:9 OLED screen was to fear it was another of those poor LG OLED panels that has plagued the V30 and Google’s Pixel 2 XL. It was an unfounded fear, however, as OnePlus wisely waited until it could secure a Samsung OLED screen, and I’ve been super satisfied with that choice.
On your first look, you might not even recognize this as an OLED display: it exhibits none of the telltale signs like lurid over-saturation or color-shifting (at anything but extreme viewing angles). It’s just a very good and reliable screen, and OnePlus has gone to the trouble of providing sRGB and DCI-P3 color calibration options for those among us who care. Knowing the company’s geeky target audience, there’ll be plenty of us who do make use of that facility, and I myself have opted for the sRGB option.
The OnePlus 5 and 5T share a killer feature I haven’t seen elsewhere: a monochromatic Reading Mode. This can be enabled per app or via a quick toggle. It desaturates the screen and adjusts the sharpness and brightness to your environment so it essentially emulates a Kindle (which itself tries to emulate real paper). It’s a huge relief from eye strain and really makes reading much easier. Short of having an actual E Ink screen, as the YotaPhone did, this is the closest any phone has yet gotten to re-creating the Kindle reading experience.
The biggest advantage of this display over the majority of others is the slimness of its bezels, which OnePlus enhances with a thoughtful software tweak. The on-screen Android buttons, which are typically pervasive across all apps that don’t take over in full-screen mode, can be “minimized” on the 5T. You can choose to have them hidden until you want to use them, at which point you can bring them back with a swipe up from the bottom. That gives you the entire 6-inch screen to read tweets and compose emails on, freeing up yet more space. The OnePlus 5T can feel downright luxurious compared to other Android phones in an information-dense app like Gmail, Slack, or Kindle. That being said, I do find myself needing those Android keys a little too often in my daily use to keep them hidden; so this new change is beneficial, but only in circumstances where you don’t have to do much multitasking.
Another improvement from OnePlus with the 5T is a so-called Sunlight Display mode. It’s part of the company’s adaptive mode, and it kicks in when it detects you’re out in bright sunlight. Contrast and other screen parameters are automatically boosted when you set up to compose a photo or video, go into your gallery, or start a game. November in the Northern Hemisphere doesn’t provide the ideal conditions for testing outdoor visibility, and I’ve been highly satisfied with the 5T’s performance outside even without Sunlight Display on. Still, it’s good to know that automatic adjustment exists: trying to take photos in the summer with an OLED screen has often been a challenge, and OnePlus is ironing out that kink and showing it’s thinking about the ways its devices are used.
Marking a welcome return from the OnePlus 5 is the desaturated Reading Mode that I’ve enjoyed very much. True to its name, it makes reading on this phone a much easier and more pleasant task than on most. It is another novel departure from the typical smartphone experience that I very much appreciate. Plus, in typical OnePlus tradition, there’s a nice dark theme that flips all the menus and the app drawer into blackness.
The 2160 x 1080 resolution of the 5T isn’t the highest available, however with 401-ppi pixel density, it’s ample for most people’s needs. The most apparent imperfection to this display is actually how it looks when it’s off: the 5T’s Samsung OLED panel isn’t quite as black as the bezels, it reflects a little more light, and so I can perceive its edges. Why does this matter? Well, a phone like the Pixel 2 XL, iPhone X, LG V30, or any of Samsung’s most recent flagships tends to look like a monolithic block of black awesomeness when off. Part of the charm of OLED screens is in that their blacks are pure and perfect, and thus anything displayed on the screen seems to float atop that darkness. The OnePlus 5T spoils the illusion that the entire front is a display.
My OnePlus 5 review read a lot like this OnePlus 5T review up to this point: good design, good display, with a couple of small critiques. Then things unraveled with the camera. Well, let me say that the 5T has better design, a better display, and now a definitively better camera, too. But it’s still mediocre by the standards of the wider phone market.
It’s arguably unfair that I keep comparing the OnePlus 5T to Samsung, Google, and LG flagships that cost dramatically more than the 5T. But OnePlus invites that comparison itself: the company actively wants to be considered alongside the giants of the Android world, and it definitely wants you to believe it has the best product. When it comes to the camera, I have to say that OnePlus flat out doesn’t have it. Yes, the 5T wins on design and display, but its biggest limitations are apparent with the quality of its images.
Having tried an iPhone-like dual-camera system with the 5 — one wide-angle lens and one telephoto — OnePlus is now switching things up again with an entirely new idea. Instead of different zoom levels, the two rear cameras on the 5T have different intended uses: the main one is unchanged from the OnePlus 5, but the secondary is now a dedicated low-light shooter. Both have a wide f/1.7 aperture, meaning they get plenty of light in, with the main sensor offering a 16-megapixel resolution (with 1.12μm pixels) and the secondary one coming in at 20 megapixels (with pixels measuring 1μm).
How can the second camera can be an improvement for low light when it has smaller pixels? Well, it uses pixel binning: combining the information of four pixels into one, and then re-interpolating back up to its full resolution. The trade-off is that you lose fine detail for the sake of lower image noise. OnePlus says that the system automatically switches to that second cam, but only in situations of less than 10 lux of light, which are quite rare. I’ve had a couple of reasonably good images in challenging lighting conditions with this phone, so I guess things are working as intended. I do like that these architectural changes are invisible to the end user: you still just point the camera at stuff and tap to shoot.
Two neat things about the OnePlus 5T’s camera interface: One is the ability to shoot by holding your finger on the fingerprint sensor on the back, ideal for people (like me) who prefer to shoot selfies with the rear camera. The other is the Pro Mode, which displays a histogram and gives access to manual ISO, white balance, and shutter speed adjustments. I’d be more enthusiastic about this latter part if I felt the camera had the potential to shoot photos that merit such finessing.
Ultimately, the OnePlus 5T’s camera lands in the territory of being serviceable. Decent, even. If you’re only looking at your photos on the phone itself, using them to Instagram a few sights or share moments with friends in a casual and unobsessive fashion, you’ll probably be just fine with the 5T. I have grown used to the higher standard of Google’s Pixel 2 camera, but that phone costs substantially more than this OnePlus device.
Portrait mode marks a return after a very poor debut on the OnePlus 5 and it’s much improved. OnePlus has scaled back the background-blurring effect, which helps to hide the errors when the camera miscalculates whether to blur or keep something in focus. But the system is a lot more robust now too: even in imperfect lighting, it usually identifies the face or object I’m trying to isolate from the background and it generally does the thing I want it to. As with all portrait modes, it’s still a work in progress that misses more than would be ideal, but at least now OnePlus has a respectable competitor, rather than a poorly executed feature. Bonus points for not needing to zoom in to capture a portrait shot — as the iPhone does and the OnePlus 5 used to — with the new camera setup on the 5T.
A note of caution about the front-facing camera: it has the beautification filter on by default — which results in flattening and lightening of skin tone and softening of detail to the point of obliteration — and if you want to take even semi-realistic selfies, you’ll have to tone that stuff down. For a while, I didn’t realize where to disable the (supposed) beautification and my selfies were taken in a world where there are no skin pores, no wrinkles, and absolutely no photographic detail.
Internally, the OnePlus 5T is almost painfully familiar: a Snapdragon 835 system-on-chip with Adreno 540 graphics is flanked by either 6GB (good) or 8GB (entirely excessive) of RAM, with a corresponding 64GB or 128GB of storage. No expansion options available, but you get two nano-SIM card slots. I like that OnePlus is among the first to support Bluetooth 5, which together with support for AptX HD makes this phone a good candidate to serve as your source for wireless music listening. That being said, OnePlus is staying faithful to its users by also continuing to include a headphone jack.
The battery hasn’t changed from the OnePlus 5, it still measures in at 3,300mAh, and the 5T’s highlight power technology is still Dash Charge, the rapid-charging solution that OnePlus says its users are delighted with. That’s all well and good, but you need to use the particular OnePlus charging cable and charger to get the benefit. If you’re like me and you travel a lot, have a billion cables, and prefer the convenience of charging both your laptop and phone with the same charger, all this Dash Charge action is kind of for naught. More to the point, people are starting to expect wireless charging from their flagship phones, and OnePlus, a company that prides itself on “only making flagships” is starting to fall behind on expectations. The right answer here is to just include both fast wired charging and wireless charging, as many of OnePlus' competitors now do.
My experience with the OnePlus 5T extends the positive impression I’ve traditionally had of the battery life of OnePlus phones. The company makes a point of optimizing its software down to a lean and efficient state that’s not too demanding on system resources and power. The time that Samsung might spend thinking of spots to add more Bixby bloat, OnePlus uses to file away an extra layer of clutter. The 5T has impressed me with its endurance, comparing favorably to the Google Pixel 2 XL, LG V30, and HTC U11. I can’t give you a precise ranking of each of those phones — because of how varied the “typical” day’s smartphone usage is — but I can tell you that all of them will get you through a full day and usually deep into the next one on a single charge. No worries on this front.
The best thing about the OnePlus 5T’s software is that the majority of its deviations from Google’s default Android settings are for the better. I’ve articulated a few of them already, including the more sophisticated and adjustment-rich camera software and the display enhancements. In terms of the Android UI, you can swipe down on the fingerprint reader to see your notifications, you can flip the order of your Android keys (or hide them entirely, as already mentioned), and you can double-tap the sleeping screen to activate it.
Face Unlock is the big discrete new feature in the latest software from OnePlus, using more than 100 identifiers to distinguish you from another person. (The company says it is different from the facial unlock features that have been in Android since version 4.0.) In all my testing, it never once gave a false positive of another person being able to log in to my phone with it. So that’s good. But it also let someone unlock the phone by merely flashing it at my face for a split second. That’s less good.
OnePlus warns that Face Unlock is not really a secure method to keep your phone locked down, and indeed the company only offers it for unlocking and doesn’t seek to exploit it for other things like payment authorization. In the constant struggle between convenience and security, this feature is firmly in the convenience section.
I find that Face Unlock usually works well, identifying me even in a perfectly dark room — the lock screen turns on, illuminates my face, and less than a second after that, I’m in — however it also has its struggles. In a club one night, the only way I could unlock the phone with my face was by having a friend point the flash on their phone at me. The 5T can handle the total lack of light, but it seems to be confounded by the cycling lights of an entertainment venue. Of course, unlike Apple’s “FaceID or bust” offering, the OnePlus 5T still has the fingerprint reader on its rear as a fallback biometric ID option.
When it works, Face Unlock is stupidly fast and it combines nicely with the double-tap-to-wake gesture. I think a lot of people will use it, enjoy it, and feel like they’re losing out on nothing relative to iPhone X users with their vastly more sophisticated FaceID technology. My opinion of this tech would probably be warmer if I didn’t have to maintain a tighter grip on security than Face Unlock would allow. I think the people who find other forms of security too fiddly might well be attracted by the ease of use here. To an authorized user, a phone with Face Unlock is (almost) the same as an unlocked phone. Room for improvement definitely remains, but this isn’t just some cynical Apple-chasing gimmick.
I am also a fan of the new Parallel Apps feature that OnePlus has implemented. It lets you clone social apps so that you can run a second instance of, say, Twitter or Telegram. This is a nice convenience for anyone looking to keep private and professional messages separate. This, together with the aforementioned Reading Mode, a Gaming Mode that disables all visual notifications, an Extended Screenshot facility, and a few other tiny tweaks to how Android works makes using the OnePlus 5T feel like a better, more complete experience.
Having laid out all the things I like about OnePlus’ gentle alterations of Android, I’d be remiss if I didn’t bemoan the fact that the OnePlus 5T doesn’t run the latest Android. Instead of Android 8 Oreo, which has been officially available for more than three months, buyers of the 5T will get Android 7.1.1 Nougat. I’ve written more extensively on the subject of why this is a problem, but here it’s sufficient to say that it just doesn’t breathe confidence in me if a manufacturer isn’t able to implement a new version of the OS within the space of three months. It doesn’t bode for future updates down the line.
The OnePlus 5T is a slightly great phone. In today’s world of superb mobile cameras, no phone can be truly great without having a great camera on board, and I don’t think the 5T has one of those. But pretty much everything else about this phone lives up to the aspiration of premium, flagship-tier quality. The 5T is a $499 phone doing admirable battle with devices sometimes twice its price. For anyone whose budget extends no further than this phone, I give it an enthusiastic thumbs up.


In January of this year, I decided I would complete a half-marathon. I would push my body to the limit and be reborn as my best self. For months, I woke up at 6 to run before work, motivated by the promise of sweet endorphins and even-sweeter self-righteousness. But then the winter wore on, and I gained some weight, and now I’m back to 5Ks instead.
In my quest to return to former glory, I redownloaded the “couch to half-marathon” app and spent $100 on a pair of New Balance shoes. I became interested in a genetic-testing kit that promised to provide the information I needed to complete 13.1 miles once and for all.
Genetic testing for wellness seems like a natural choice for someone like me. I still wear my Fitbit every day two years after getting it, making me one of the few and the proud that have stuck with their device for longer than six months. I own a smart scale and a running watch; I track calories and read training forums. But the forum advice is general, while the DNA test kit promised insights based on who I, specifically, am. In a society obsessed with optimizing ourselves, it follows that figuring out the “nature” part of the “nature versus nurture” equation can give us that extra competitive edge.
The test in question is available through Helix, a new consumer genomics company. Helix uses a more sophisticated method of genome sequencing than most other commercial DNA tests, and brands itself as a “platform.” It works like this: you send Helix your genetic data and it sequences it. Then, you buy various data analyses from third-party companies that you authorize to access your genetic information. The offerings are varied. You can learn about your risk for various genetic diseases and your sleep type, see what you and your partner’s baby might look like, or be served wine recommendations “scientifically selected based on your DNA.”
I purchased Helix’s one-time DNA sequencing kit for $80, and for my required add-on, I chose the $220 Fitness Diet Pro by DNAFit. Fitness Diet Pro promises to tell me how best to train and eat — everything from if I am sensitive to carbs to whether I recover more slowly than average after exercise. (My employer covered the cost, otherwise I could not afford it.)
When the kit came, I spent five minutes in the office bathroom surreptitiously spitting into the tube, then sealed it and sent it off. The results that came back provided me with interesting trivia — but it didn’t tell me much I didn’t already know from the fact that I live in this body. I wanted information that would help me improve myself, but in the end, Helix is genetics for entertainment.
When the Human Genome Project was announced in 1989, it was supposed to cost $3 billion. It ended up costing a little less, and the price has been rapidly dropping ever since. Today, sequencing is about 400,000 times cheaper than it was even in 2001, thanks to various breakthroughs in technology, says Steven Salzberg, a professor of genomics at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. Not only is DNA sequencing becoming cheaper, it’s also becoming more comprehensive and accurate.
Imagine that your DNA is a book filled with millions of letters. Most DNA sequencing works by looking at a few specific letters. Maybe you know that there’s a certain letter on page 47, and if the letter is A, then you’re slightly more likely to have Alzheimer’s, and if the letter is C, you’re slightly less likely.
These “letters” are called single-nucleotide polymorphisms, or SNPs (pronounced “snips”). SNPs are scattered pieces all over the genome, so in the end “you’re only reading a very small number of the locations,” says Salzberg. It’s like skimming the key sections when you don’t have time to read the entire book.
Now imagine that instead of looking at scattered letters, you’re figuring out what complete sentences say. Instead of working with scattered parts, Helix sequences continuous DNA segments that encode for specific genes. “The accuracy is very high,” says Salzberg, who adds that this method, called exome sequencing, is especially useful for finding causes of rare genetic diseases. In one of his projects, scientists sequence the exome of someone with a genetic disease and their healthy parents, then compare the entire strand for differences.
Genetic results can tell you ancestry and paternity, and provide information about inherited genetic disease like Huntington’s. They can spell out risks for cancer and other illnesses. There’s a large body of literature on the ethics of these tests and what this knowledge might mean for our choices, but that isn’t relevant in my case. A few years ago, I took a 23andMe test that told me, among other things, that I am 99.5 percent Han Chinese, not a carrier of any genetic diseases, and am likely to have dark hair. (I do. See: 99.5 percent Han Chinese.) I already know I am a relatively healthy person.
This time around, I’m interested in being even better. Wellness tests like Fitness Diet Pro tell you which variation you have of a gene that has been linked to a certain feature, like fast-twitch or slow-twitch muscles. In theory, once you have this information, you know the right foods to eat and the right exercise to make it across the finish line.
But that’s only true if you trust the research, and some of it doesn’t hold up. Eric Topol, a  geneticist at the Scripps Research Institute tweeted that Helix was “giving consumer genomics a bad name” because it relied on shaky science. The sequencing itself is accurate, he says, calling Helix’s sequencing “first-rate,” but the analysis often isn’t. Many of the studies that suggest a link between a gene and a trait are based on poor data and studies that don’t replicate, according to Topol.
Helix offerings like the genetic screening for disease are based on good science, he says, but other add-ons — including Fitness Diet Pro — are useless. (Consider that a biologist came up with a satirical version of Heix’s wine DNA test before realizing it actually existed.) “I looked at many of these and they had no science to support them,” says Topol. “The customer is at a loss because they usually don’t have the time or ability to interpret the scientific article, which often they can’t access anyway. So how are people going to get the truth?”
After more than six weeks, my Fitness Diet Pro results came back: an array of brightly colored genotype PDFs with charts and images of happy people far more fit than me.
The reports weren’t just easy to read, they were careful not to overpromise. That makes sense; the US Food and Drug Administration once ordered 23andMe to stop selling its kits because the company had been marketing itself as a provider of health information without getting proper approval.
The legal disclaimer comes off strong: DNAFit absolutely cannot be liable for anything bad that happens to you if you take the advice. Each portion of the online report has a section clearly laying out what the test can and cannot tell you, and it warns that my results should not “be used to tell us what kinds of sport we can or cannot be good at.”
The superiority of Helix’s exome sequencing was very clear in one area. One of the supposed divides in sports is between athletes who need short bursts of power — think sprinting or power lifting — and athletes like marathon runners and rock climbers who focus more on endurance. When I took the 23andMe test in 2014, I learned that I have the gene for fast-twitch muscles associated with sprinters, though I am far better at 10K distances than I am at sprints. Fitness Diet Pro added more context by showing that though I do have the fast-twitch muscle gene, I actually have more genes associated with endurance sports. The report claims that I am 67.2 percent an endurance athlete and 32.8 percent power — numbers that seem absurdly precise. (The percentages are calculated by a Fitness Diet Pro algorithm that has been fed various studies on the effects of each gene.)
Andrew Steele, a former Olympian and co-founder of DNAFit, walked me through my results. Today, Steele is the head of product for DNAFit, but was once a professional athlete who won a bronze medal in the 4x400m relay at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. He doesn’t have the ACTN3 gene variant associated with fast-twitch muscles, the variant that the majority of elite sprinters have, and which I have as well. “I had some success, but it was the failure side of my career that made me learn what worked and didn’t work, and led me to discover genetics,” Steele tells me. The training advice Steele gave me was solid; he clearly has an enormous amount of nutritional and fitness knowledge.
I have a higher-than-normal risk of soft tissue injury, but have never had any injuries other than occasional twinges of knee pain, and I probably don’t work out enough to put myself at serious risk. Steele asked me about pain, and sent over some helpful exercises for my knees, such as wall sits with a medicine ball. On the bragging rights side, I have a slightly faster-than-normal recovery rate. To take advantage of my “power” genes, Steele suggested adding various types of intervals that would help me get faster and trainer better.
The diet section rated me as “normal” on everything from antioxidant need to Vitamin B need to omega-3 need, and I’m not especially sensitive to carbs or saturated fat. Both this and 23andMe said I’m lactose intolerant (like most people in the world, it hastens to add). And I lack the gene variant that makes my liver better at detoxing. To make up for that lack, Steele said to eat more cruciferous vegetables, like broccoli.
The quality of Helix’s exome sequencing is excellent. But the company’s business model leaves much to be desired. For one, you don’t get access to your own genetic data. You can’t use it to learn about yourself, and if you want to do a non-Helix test or even present it to your doctor, you’ll have to get sequenced all over again. (Helix has said that in the future you may be able to purchase your raw data for an additional fee.)
Helix collects the demographic information, genetic information, and site-browsing information. It only shares the relevant genetic information with the partner (in this case, DNAFit), but the partner may have its own, different privacy policy. It’s always worth looking into the privacy policies of these companies, says Kayte Spector-Bagdady, a bioethicist at the University of Michigan. You should also be aware of if the company may be selling your genetic data, like 23andMe and Ancestry have done.
For example, DNA Fit’s privacy policy says that it won’t sell information to third parties without consent. Vinome, the DNA wine-test company, says the same, but it also adds that you won’t have rights to any products the company could develop using your genetic material. Arivale, a Helix partner that offers DNA wellness coaching, states that it may share your health information with labs or outside contractors to provide evaluations, or with third-party business associates.
Helix may recruit users to participate in medical studies, which is a potential boon when it comes to helping research progress. Right now, the majority of genetic data in biobanks comes from European and Caucasian participants, says Spector-Bagdady, and having more diverse participants — if they can afford the tests — could be helpful for further studies. These are promises we’ve heard before with Apple’s ResearchKit. In their case, recruitment really was bolstered — one of their apps already enrolled more than 41,000 people — but ethical and privacy issues remain. And if Helix released our data, we could participate in any study we wanted, not just the one the company approves.
Helix currently has nearly 30 offerings and is working on partnerships that will launch in the future. Mayo Clinic, for instance, is working with Helix to create a genetics-education app, according to Matthew Ferber, who runs the clinic’s Center for Individualized Medicine. “There are a lot of great books that talk about genetics, but if you don’t have a way to make it real for the individual, it’s hard to get people to move through the dense material,” says Ferber. The Mayo app will take the individual’s DNA itself to teach them about concepts such as autosomal dominance and pharmacogenetics. It’s great cause, but because Helix is a walled garden, Mayo participants won’t be able to access the rest of their data.
Topol, the geneticist from Scripps, says that he’s a “really big fan” of consumer genomics, but it has to be done right. That means providing everyone with their data and only providing results that have been proven by science, like information about genetic risk or how different drugs interact with DNA. Consumer genomics should be rigorous, not peddle results with likely no basis in reality. “I think Helix could be morphed into a very important and strong company if it got rid of all that junk,” he says. “But there’s no sign of that.”
Just because Helix has sophisticated sequencing technology, and just because Steele, the DNAFit co-founder, knows what he’s doing, doesn’t mean this information will help me complete my half-marathon. In almost all cases, genetic information alone simply isn’t enough to make us change our behavior and improve our lives. Studies show that being told you’re at genetic risk for something usually isn’t enough to change your behavior, so the outlook is even worse if you’re just trying to drop a few pounds or complete a race.
For me, specifically, some results might not be applicable because I’m Asian and research studies are often overwhelmingly white. And many of the “insights” were things I already knew. Fitness Diet Pro results suggested that I’m more sensitive to coffee than others, but it’s been clear for years that a few sips will keep me up all night. Steele’s training advice to run intervals was solid, but a quick glance through the r/running subreddit shows plenty of people advising everyone to run intervals, regardless of their preferred distance, and do wall sits. We should all be eating more broccoli and fewer Reese’s cups, liver detox gene be damned.
Plus, many tests are quick to point out that these genes only explain a tiny percentage of the variation in performance. That’s nothing, unless you, like Steele, are at the Olympic level. “For the vast majority of us who are not elite, that distinction is probably irrelevant,” says Brian Zikmund-Fisher, a professor of health behavior at the University of Michigan, and factors like your practice schedule matter much more.
Being told your genetic risk for certain diseases didn’t make you any less likely to quit smoking or move more or even slap on some more sunscreen, according to a paper published in the British Medical Journal last year. “People are very sensitive to information about immediate threat, so if you see a sign saying ‘shark-infested water,’ the chance are that you’ll get into the water are low,” says study author Theresa Marteau, director of the Behavior and Health Research Unit at Cambridge University. But genetic tests give you information that seems abstract and far away.
If important health information isn’t enough to scare us into changing, suggestions about eating more broccoli won’t do much. And I know myself: grimly chanting “my body was built for sprints” won’t take any of the agony out when I do them, and won’t provide any more pleasure than I usually get (none; there is no pleasure in sprints) when I finish.
So what does work? “If we knew the answer of what would reliably shock people to change their behavior, there would be a transformation in human society,” says Zikmund-Fischer. Cambridge’s Marteau agrees, though she says that much of the answer lies in policy change, like soda and cigarette taxes. Social factors — Do you enjoy the activity? Does it fit in with your lifestyle and schedule? — are far more important than genetic tests when it comes to changing behavior. It’s our environments — economic, digital, social, and cultural — that often have the biggest influence on our behavior and that push us to be unhealthy.
When I asked James Lu, Helix’s senior vice president of applied genomics, about this argument, he says that people should decide for themselves what is useful. “Given an environment where people are willing to really try new things, to self-optimize, I think people have a right to information that’s scientifically valid,” he says. “And our goal is to make sure they understand what they’re getting and making the right kinds of decisions.”
Genetic testing, unlike astrology or the dubious claims of Goop, has the trustworthy gloss of cold, hard, reliable science. And as sequencing becomes cheaper and cheaper, it’s easier than ever to take a peek into the original birth charts: our DNA. But science, even if technically accurate, can be fairly useless.
Helix takes a serious branch of science and lightens it up, implying that DNA testing isn’t just about diseases and complicated, technical lab work. It can be about turning your DNA into a scarf. And treating science like entertainment might have negative effects.
It’s not that science can’t be fun. 23andMe gave results on the type of earwax you have, and whether light makes you sneeze. But it also provided useful information on genetic risk. With Helix, you can receive dubious data with none of the useful insights, and popularizing dubious science is counterproductive. “I think it’s unusual for us to think of scientific work that doesn’t have legal and scientific standing, with the idea that we need to ‘take this science with a grain of salt,’” says Jonathan Marks, a professor of anthropology at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte and author of Is Science Racist? “This probably the the wrong direction for the scientific community to be leading the public in, if we’re apprehensive about people not taking science seriously enough.”
In the end, Helix is little more than a form of astrology. Sure, it seems ludicrous to think that my astrological sign will affect my life — but various studies have looked at the influence of peoples’ month of birth on education, childhood intelligence, and socioeconomic status. Maybe there’s a real link there, too, but month of birth is hardly the most important thing when it comes to any of these outcomes.
I am a Pisces, but my birthday falls right on the cusp, when the sign is changing to Aries. So am I more likely to be a typical Pisces, all dreamy and artistic, or a hot-headed Aries? Should I spend more time sprinting because of my fast-twitch genes, or attempting marathons because of all the other ones?
You can spend a lot of time analyzing the precise time and location of my birth, and trying to calculate the precise ways my genes interact and which ones are more powerful. Or you can spend time with me, make observations, ask questions. The answers you get through interaction will almost certainly be more correct.
Helix is unlikely to do major harm, but it’s unlikely to help either. I had signed up for one half-marathon in June, skipped it; signed up for another one two weeks later out of guilt, skipped it; thought about signing up for a third, and thankfully didn’t. It was fall when I received my DNA test back, and while the results were interesting, one look out the window made it clear that I wouldn’t even go outside again until April, much less run intervals. Helix could tell me what I could be doing to improve, but it couldn’t do a single thing to help the biggest roadblock to my dream of the half-marathon: my hatred of cold weather.


Google is releasing a fix in the coming weeks to remove a faint buzzing sound that appears during phone calls on some Pixel 2 devices. A community manager posted a short message on the Pixel User Community forum confirming the fix, stating, “We’re rolling out a software update in the coming weeks which eliminates a faint buzzing sound on some Pixel 2 devices when the phone is placed to your ear during a phone call.”
Some users received replacement handsets, but said the problem remained. Others described the noise as a hissing sound. The fix comes shortly after the company issued a software update to fix the faint NFC-related clicking sounds some users experienced last month.
Though the Pixel 2 launched with rave reviews, the first month of rollout has been troublesome for Google, with devices suffering from a variety of issues including poor sound recording quality, unresponsive spots on the XL’s touchscreen, and some display issues.


It's hard to find USB-C earbuds despite so many Android phones — including Google’s Pixel 2 devices and the Razer Phone — making a switch to the new connector while getting rid of the 3.5mm headphone jack. Fortunately, there’s a new pair of USB-C buds just released called the Razer Hammerhead USB-C. They’re made to match the Razer Phone, but you can easily plug them into any other device that has a USB-C jack.
The earbuds are fitted with 10-mm drivers and acoustic chambers to deliver “deep, distortion-free bass,” according to the company.
Razer’s earbuds include an in-line remote and mic along a flat cable that should help reduce tangles. They’re also magnetic, so you can snap them together when not in use. The main problem with the earphones is the fact that they're a garish neon green and black color, which fits with the Razer aesthetic favored by gamers and few others.
The Razer Hammerhead earbuds come with a custom carry case and are available for $79.99 from the Razer store, joining the Bluetooth and Lightning versions released earlier this year.





Nintendo's third proper mobile game, Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp, will be released on Wednesday November 22nd, the company has announced. Previously pegged for a late November release, the free-to-play game has already been made available in Australia as a soft launch.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp is a camping-themed take on Nintendo's addictive city life simulator, and may well be the company's most successful mobile game yet. The series regularly sells extremely well on Nintendo's dedicated hardware platforms, and the slow-paced design that rewards daily play should make a lot of sense on mobile — as long as Nintendo isn't too aggressive with its microtransactions.


During the 2017 American Music Awards, Disney debuted a new trailer for its adaptation of Madeleine L'Engle’s A Wrinkle in Time, showing off a girl’s fantastic quest across the universe to safe her father.
The movie is based off of L’Engle’s 1963 novel. In it, we’re introduced to a young girl named Meg Murry (Storm Reid), who sets off with her younger brother Charles Wallace (Deric McCabe), her friend Calvin O’Keefe (Levi Miller), and a trio of witches (Oprah Winfrey, Reese Witherspoon, and Mindy Kaling) to search for her missing father, Alexander Murry (Chris Pine). Along the way, they visits several fantastic planets and discovers that the universe is under attack by a personification of evil, The Black Thing.
The trailer explains the concept behind the title: Meg’s father was looking for a way to travel to the stars, and invented the tesseract to transport vast distances instantaneously, only to be captured by the dark force. The witches explain that they’re trying to find warriors to help them serve the light, and that the only person who can save her father from the darkness is Meg.
A Wrinkle in Time is scheduled to hit theaters on March 9th, 2018.



Just weeks after Amazon launched an investigation into allegations of sexual harassment against the star of its Emmy-winning show Transparent, Jeffrey Tambor has told Deadline that he is not returning next season.
In a statement to the publication, Tambor said that while he was privileged to take part in the show, recent events have made it clear that it “is no longer the job I signed up for four years ago.”
On November 8th, Deadline reported that Amazon had begun an investigation after a former assistant came forward with allegations, which he called “baseless,” while days later, another actress alleged that the actor made unwanted sexual comments and advances towards her. The departure is another high-profile exit from Amazon Studios, which saw its studio head Roy Price resign after allegations of sexual harassment.
Transparent is not presently in production for its fifth season, and following the allegations against Tambor, there were reports that the show’s writers were looking at ways to continue the show without his character. Tambor’s departure is similar to Kevin Spacey’s recent firing from his show House of Cards, which has prompted a last-minute fix to continue the show without him.


Germany’s telecommunication agency, the Bundesnetzagentur, has banned smartwatches for kids, and is asking parents to destroy them. According to Bleeping Computer, (via Gizmodo) the regulators have deemed smartwatches targeted at kids “prohibitive listening devices” and are asking parents to destroy any smartwatches their kids have and advising schools to pay closer attention to kids with them.
Germany is targeting the listening capabilities of smartwatches but strangely didn’t say anything about the European Consumer Organization’s (BEUC) announcement that smartwatches pose a security threat to kids’ privacy. The BEUC warned that GPS-tracking smartwatches could be hacked and attackers could track or spoof the GPS location of kids’ smartwatches.
If Europe’s crackdown on smartwatches continues, it will force manufacturers to step up their security protocols and improve the smartwatch market — which isn’t that great right now — for everyone.


We’re five days away from Black Friday (November 24th) and the biggest shopping holiday of the year has already begun at several online retailers. Below, we’ve rounded up our favorite tech deals from Amazon, B&H, eBay, and more.
Great sales will launch throughout the week, many starting on Thanksgiving, so make sure to check back here. We will be bringing you the best deals on laptops, TVs, headphones, and more. Happy shopping!
Looking for more gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s gaming deals roundup here.
Update on November 19th at 12PM EST: This post was originally published on November 18th and updated to add in several deals including PlayStation 1TB Slim, PlayStation VR, and Amazon Kindle, Fire and Dash Button devices.
Update on November 20th at 11:45AM EST: Added in Apple deals at B&H and noted changes on a few previous deals.
Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media's commerce editor, Chloe Reznikov, in collaboration with The Verge's editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here.



*Names have been changed to protect identities.
On a late night in March 2013, Lila* fell asleep on a hotel bed, over the covers, with her clothes still on, while her then-partner, Morgan Marquis-Boire was engrossed in a conversation with one of their friends. They were in Toronto for Cyber Dialogue, a conference organized in part by Citizen Lab, an interdisciplinary group run out of the Munk School of Global Affairs at the University of Toronto that studies the internet and its impact on human rights.
Marquis-Boire was already a rising star in the privacy and digital rights world — a computer security hotshot working to protect vulnerable activists and whistleblowers against oppressive governments. After the summer of 2013, he would become closely identified with whistleblowers like Edward Snowden and the journalists who helped publish the Snowden documents, and he would eventually go to work for The Intercept as a technologist. In 2014, Wired would publish a glowing profile that called him “the ex-Google hacker taking on the world’s spy agencies.” Google’s director of information security Heather Adkins described him as “in the top one percent of technical capability” of people she had hired. Ron Deibert, the director of Citizen Lab, praised him as "extraordinarily talented," and added, “but what I very much appreciate about him is his passion for human rights.”
Marquis-Boire and the mutual friend were engaged in a high-level technical discussion, despite the fact that all three had been drinking heavily that night. Marquis-Boire had taken some pills — benzos, Lila thought, or common prescription tranquilizers. She didn’t take any. Several hours later, Lila became conscious of Marquis-Boire shaking her awake. Their friend had left. At first she thought Marquis-Boire was just rousing her so she could change her clothes and get into bed. But she tells The Verge that she was quickly disabused of the notion.
Marquis-Boire was still intoxicated, but enough hours had passed that Lila was stone-cold sober. According to Lila, as he began to initiate sex, she protested. She said stop. She said no. She even said their safe word.
At this point she’s told the story enough times that she can repeat it with a kind of brittle cheer, but her voice still quickens with anger when she gets to the end. “He ignored all of that,” she says, “while he fucked me in the ass.”
It was only much later that Lila would hear that this wasn’t the first time Marquis-Boire had forced himself on someone, or the first time he had anal sex with a woman without her consent. According to sources, he had been assaulting women for over a decade.
The Verge has corroborated six separate allegations of physical and sexual assault by Morgan Marquis-Boire, with four self-identified victims located in Marquis-Boire’s home country of New Zealand. We also spoke to others in New Zealand, including former friends of Morgan Marquis-Boire, who say that this pattern of behavior was well-known in their community.
This couldn’t be more different from how he was perceived by the wider public. Marquis-Boire was a prolific speaker at security and human rights conferences, including the Aspen Ideas Festival in 2016. He sometimes used his considerable public platform to talk about the larger social problem of violence against women, and even stated that it motivated his recent work at Citizen Lab researching “stalkerware” or “spouseware” — spyware deployed against abused partners by their abusers. (In April 2017, he told Motherboard that he thought spouseware should receive more attention because it was common and widespread, and "the victims are everyday people.") Many of his best friends were women. He made casual, light-hearted jokes about misandry on Twitter.
In short, Marquis-Boire was supposed to be one of the good guys.
That was the Morgan Marquis-Boire that Dana* knew. Dana, a close friend of both Marquis-Boire and Lila, ran in the same San Francisco social circles. She was never in a relationship with Marquis-Boire, but they were very good friends, and his emotional support had become “a precious lifeline” to Dana. When Chloe Ann-King, a woman in Auckland, New Zealand, reached out to Dana via Facebook Messenger in September 2014 to warn her about Marquis-Boire, the ensuing conversation made her head spin. Ann-King alleged that Marquis-Boire had physically and sexually abused close friends of hers, including coercing anal sex from a woman too intoxicated to consent.
Dana knew that Morgan had substance abuse problems and that he was a “shitty boyfriend,” but struggled to accept the idea that he could be a serial rapist. But she believed the account, as difficult as that was. She just didn’t know what to do. “I wanted to believe that whatever fucked up shit he’d done in his early twenties was long over,” said Dana. “I fucking vouched for the guy. Pretty dumb, huh?” But it was Dana who would eventually become the bridge between New Zealand and the United States, bringing Morgan Marquis-Boire’s world crashing down around him.
Lila compartmentalized the assault, and she and Marquis-Boire continued dating for a year and a half. In 2015, after the relationship had ended, Lila told Dana for the first time about what had happened in the Toronto hotel room. In response, Dana recounted in broad strokes what Ann-King had told her via Facebook Messenger, but it was somewhat vague. “She gave no indication to me that she had been told Morgan had raped a bunch of women,” said Lila. In 2017, Dana showed Lila screencaps of her conversation with Ann-King and it was then that Lila learned that Ann-King had accused Marquis-Boire of anally penetrating other women without their consent. In interviews with The Verge, Dana expressed remorse that she hadn’t shown Lila the chat logs sooner.
Suddenly, Lila no longer saw what happened in Toronto as a singular, isolated incident on a drunken night, but one more data point in a decades-long pattern of sexual assault stretching from New Zealand to North America.
“The only thing I have ever wanted is for Morgan to stop hurting women,” Lila told me — a sentiment echoed by multiple women interviewed by The Verge.
The Verge spoke to several women in New Zealand who were only teenagers when they knew Marquis-Boire, and have corroborated several incidents of sexual and physical assault, including multiple accounts of forced anal sex. In 2008, Marquis-Boire left Auckland for a Google job in Zurich, Switzerland, and then later relocated to San Francisco. The women he left behind in New Zealand helplessly watched his star rise for well over a decade, unmarred by even a whisper of the wreckage he had left behind in his home country. Some of the victims buried their memories and tried to put the past behind them. Others, like Chloe Ann-King, tried to reach out to Marquis-Boire’s new friends and make this local open secret known abroad. But no one believed the women trying to blow the whistle on the man who protected whistleblowers.
Lila’s story closely echoed the stories The Verge uncovered in New Zealand. But Lila was different from these women: she, like her alleged rapist, was a hacker and a respected expert in the same field. Although Marquis-Boire’s reputation may have insulated him from accusations by other women, what Lila had to say about what happened in Toronto in 2013 would be believed.
Throughout The Verge’s investigation, sources expressed fear that Marquis-Boire, a lauded security expert, could hack them in retaliation. Corroborating electronic messages that could be used as evidence of his assault, one woman said, could not be found because he had been too careful with his operational security. One alleged victim told us that he had apologized to her, but had done it — either coincidentally or on purpose — through an ephemeral messaging app, one of the very technologies he had advocated for as an activist.
Lila, on the other hand, managed to out-maneuver him. She made him communicate with her in written electronic mediums, and when he was evasive, demanded that he describe his own behavior clearly and specifically. In the end, she was able to provide The Verge with both a chat log and a PGP signed and encrypted email from Morgan Marquis-Boire. In the email, he apologizes at great length for a terrible but unspecified wrong. And in the chat log, he explicitly confesses to raping and beating her in the hotel room in Toronto, and also confesses to raping multiple women in New Zealand and Australia.
“He had to have known what I was doing,” said Lila, sounding almost disgusted. Now that she had his confession in hand, she could go public if he did not take steps to stop harming women.
In early July, Lila laid down an ultimatum, one that included the requirement that he enter a rehab program and get clean. But after further conversations with Marquis-Boire, she came to the conclusion that the scope of the assaults was far beyond anything she had imagined.
Although Lila had explicitly asked him how many women he had raped, in all of their conversations, he never gave her a precise tally. “I have drunkenly sexually assaulted or raped women - the exact number of which I am currently determining,” he admits in the chat log. In the PGP-encrypted email, he never uses the word “rape,” but in referring to an “inventory of my sins,” he writes, “I don’t have a number for you yet, but it’s going to be worse than anything anyone has documented.”
Lila did not want to go public with her allegations, and was anxious to preserve her privacy. (She still expresses concern that if her identity becomes widely known, the rape will draw unwanted attention.) She told him to write a Facebook post announcing that he was going to get sober, and then made him rewrite it when it wasn’t specific enough. On July 12th, Marquis-Boire posted on Facebook that his interest in alcohol had “reduced significantly,” only implying indirectly that he has quit drinking.
The Facebook post racked up over 500 likes and numerous encouraging comments, including one from Judith*, an activist who was close with both Marquis-Boire and Lila. When Lila saw the comment, she reached out to Judith via encrypted text message, explaining that there was more to the Facebook post than met the eye, and disclosing to her, for the first time, that she had been raped by Marquis-Boire.
Suddenly, Judith remembered a drunken night in 2014, when she and Marquis-Boire had gone home together. She’d drunk a little more than she should have, but she had gone home with Marquis-Boire and cuddled platonically with him a “million times” before, and felt perfectly safe. At his place, he began to snort something, and he offered her some. It wasn’t something she had done before, but she’d had “a particularly bad week” and snorted it, too. He initiated sexual contact, and she consented, but then the drugs and alcohol made her black out.
When she got up in the morning, she found an anal toy in the bathroom sink. “It’s not something I would have ever consented to,” said Judith. But on the other hand, she had consented to doing a drug she’d never done before, right? And Marquis-Boire had been extremely intoxicated as well. It was just bad sex, she had thought at the time, not an assault.
But after Lila described her assault and told her about similar incidents in New Zealand, Judith began to see that night as part of a much larger and more terrifying pattern.
As the apparent enormity of his hidden abuse continued to sink in, Lila changed tactics. In late July, Lila told Marquis-Boire that she was going to petition to have him removed from his advisory positions at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Freedom of the Press Foundation. But he begged her for the chance to withdraw from Citizen Lab on his own, and to confess to the director Ron Deibert in his own words. She consented to this.
Marquis-Boire resigned from Citizen Lab in September, according to the organization. But when Lila followed up with Citizen Lab, she discovered that he had not in fact confessed to being a rapist. Deibert, Lila said, was furious when he heard the full story. He took further steps to make sure Citizen Lab was no longer working with Marquis-Boire in any capacity, either “formally or informally.”
Lila stayed quiet about what was happening, and asked the organizations she contacted to also stay quiet out of respect for her privacy. Marquis-Boire withdrew from upcoming speaking engagements. For conferences that did not publicly confirm that he had withdrawn, Lila asked her friends to call the organizers to request he be dropped. She told The Verge that she saw this as necessary to preventing future rapes. By September, she had effectively forced him out of his own sphere of influence.
In the meantime, he lashed out at both Lila and Dana for being unfair to him. In mid-August he called Dana, a call she described as “one of the most terrifying things that’s happened to me in a while.” He not only threatened suicide but also intimated that everything that was happening to him was Dana’s fault, while Dana sobbed and hyperventilated in fear. He also made vague threats towards Chloe Ann-King.
“I hadn’t told him Chloe was my contact,” said Dana.
Unlike other recent high-profile sexual assault allegations, where public disclosure has caused professional consequences, Marquis-Boire’s career was dead before news of his assaults was publicly reported.
Word of Marquis-Boire’s behavior began to circulate in the digital rights community, and soon, news of his fall from grace began to reach New Zealand. Chloe Ann-King began to watch for indications that he had been removed from the high-profile institutions he was affiliated with. On October 12th, Chloe Ann-King tweeted to thank The Intercept for removing Morgan Marquis-Boire from their staff page, saying, “he raped two women I know.” In subsequent tweets, she mentioned that within the insular goth community of Auckland, New Zealand, he was known as “goth Morgan the rapist.”
First Look Media, The Intercept’s parent company, said it never received any reports of sexual misconduct by Marquis-Boire, either internally or, as was the case at Citizen Lab and other organizations, from an external source like Lila. First Look Media said that Marquis-Boire had actually left his position in September, but the update to the website had been slow in coming. But Ann-King’s public denunciation set off a chain effect anyways, when numerous reporters, including reporters at The Verge, contacted both her and the organizations that Marquis-Boire had been involved with.
On October 13th, Citizen Lab released a statement explaining that they had definitively cut ties with Marquis-Boire after hearing from Lila — who is not identified in the statement, but has identified herself to The Verge — that she had been raped.
“I have expressed a desire to try to atone for my actions and I have started trying, starting with figure exactly everything that I need to atone for,” Marquis-Boire told Lila in the chat log from early July. He said he had various thoughts in “early stages,” that would involve flying back to New Zealand, to speak with people face-to-face.
“You will also have to go to Australia,” Lila replied.
“Makes sense,” he said. “I thought I would start with the greatest concentration.”
The Verge attempted to reach Morgan Marquis-Boire, but he did not reply to our requests for comment. As far as we are aware, he has not made any plans to return to New Zealand. In October, an ex-girlfriend in contact with him told us that he was thinking of going to the UK to get away from the “stress” of the situation.
Lila never planned on going public with her story. But his reluctance to take further concrete steps to make things right, despite the contrition he expressed, has forced her to take more drastic action, she says.
“I emphasized how important it was for him to stop doing damage,” she said to The Verge. “Before I went to anyone else, I wanted to give him the opportunity to stop. He spent a lot of time talking to me about how he wanted to get better, how he wanted to change, but he also tried to weasel out of any responsibility for what he did to other women. In the end he was not ready to face what he had done. And in the end, that is why I am doing this.”
Additional reporting by Russell Brandom and Laura Hudson.


If your idea of trucker life comes from movies like Smokey and the Bandit or Convoy, you’re living in the past. Truckers have swapped their citizen band radios for tablets, smartphones, and apps. But that doesn’t mean they’ve completely abandoned the CB radio lingo of the glory days.
Police officers are still called “Smokey,” Mack trucks are referred to as “Bulldogs,” and ambulances are known as “Band-Aid Buggies.” The lingo has changed since its heyday in the 1970s and ‘80s — no one calls each other “good buddy” anymore — but a lot of it is still in use. Which made me curious: once Tesla’s new Semi trucks start hitting the road in earnest in a couple years, what should truckers call them?
Elon Musk seems content to call the truck just “Semi,” which honestly is pretty disappointing. Especially since Musk seems obsessed with using inside jokes or crude humor to name his various projects. The fact that the truck will forever be “Semi” seems like an enormous missed opportunity.
I reached out to a couple of experts to see whether we could come up with some better names for Tesla’s truck. I asked Henry Albert, a veteran trucker and owner of Albert Transport Inc., and Joel Morrow, a driver with Ploger Transportation, for their ideas. I also tapped into The Verge’s hive mind for inspiration (as well as few outside pun-smiths), and came up with what I think is a pretty good list. Please vote below for your favorite, and we’ll tweet the winner at Musk to see if he likes it. (And if you have your own submissions, please leave them in the comments section.)
This poll is closed.


Maybe winter is already taking its toll on you — have you checked? Short days, dry air, too many people in Burlington Coat Factory, all the interesting coffee flavors double in price. These things take a toll on the body.
Luckily, At Home With Amy Sedaris, a new Tuesday night TruTV show of which there are already five episodes available to watch, will help. I promise. Sedaris is best known for her starring role in cult classic in Strangers with Candy, her voice work on BoJack Horseman, her supporting part on Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, her famous brother, her fantastic advice column in The Believer, and two books about crafting and cooking. Here, she plays herself, living alone in a house based on her real apartment, cooking and crafting and hosting guests. That’s the whole show. She cooks; she crafts; she hosts guests; she lives alone. On her wall, there is construction paper artwork that reads “ALONE BY CHOICE.” At the end of each episode, her guests clear out and she relaxes with a bath, some raunchy calisthenics, or a period of reflection on what she has learned in the preceding 25 minutes.
At Home With Amy Sedaris is modeled after an antiquated genre of television: the hospitality shows of the ‘60s that taught women how to cook and create and become a perfect domestic partner. Sedaris told Eater last month that she loved those shows as a kid, saying she played “hospitality show” as a game of fantasy when she was growing up. “I like playing house, I like cooking, I like talking to a camera, talking to people that would come on the show.” That spirit is obvious in At Home with Amy Sedaris, as it’s as much about playing as it is actually succeeding at doing anything useful. Sedaris makes crafts like “tater toes” (shoes made out of baked potatoes) and “panty hose eye burritos” (pantyhose filled with beans and decorated with fake eyes, to wear as a sleep mask). She hosts Rachel Dratch, Paul Giamatti, Scott Adsit, Nick Kroll, and some other weirdos, all playing characters who are also weirdos.
She makes food like angel food ice cream cake, which she serves as a crumbling disaster covered in a pile of whipped cream — applied by hand. She serves sangria with Twizzler straws and wraps up a still-lit candle to give as a gift. She also makes actually beautiful pork chops and steak medallions, cable-knit sweaters and coin-studded placemats. She is good at some things and terrible at others, but never acknowledges the difference.
Coming back from a commercial break in one episode, Sedaris greets the audience warmly: “Oh hello, I was just admiring this beer can that I painted to look like an owl.”
The show is calmly weird, making no real fuss over the idea of pouring pancake mix into a toaster or serving a can of condensed milk as dessert. Sedaris rattles off explanations for these decisions as if she is explaining basic arithmetic to a PhD student, almost apologizing for how obvious it should all already be. In an episode about hosting a dinner party when you don’t have any money, she turns casually to the camera and declares: “Being poor is an appalling condition in which one is deprived of even the most basic human needs — is one way to view it! But being poor can also be an amazing opportunity for creative resourcefulness.”
It would be borderline offensive if it weren’t so charming, and followed up by a segment in which “Regional Wine Lady” Ronnie Vino (also played by Sedaris) comes over and teaches her to disguise her tiny booze budget by dumping a fruit salad and some flat ginger ale into dirt-cheap wine, garnishing with “whatever fruit fell on the floor when you were dumping it in.” Before she leaves, Ronnie sings her signature jingle, “It’s Friday / I’m gonna get drunk / I’m gonna get laid” and hip-thrusts in all denim.
Another episode focuses on dealing with grieving people. Sedaris starts the show in the back of a stranger’s funeral, saying she wandered in by accident, looking for a bathroom: “But this is a happy accident because it serves as a stark reminder that sometimes, people are sad. You can’t swing a dead cat without hitting someone who’s grieving, especially if they’re the owner of that cat.” Intending to spend the episode teaching homemaker skills related to compassion and mourning, Sedaris’ plans are derailed by the death of her beloved goldfish. So a Southern busybody named Patty Hogg (Sedaris again) takes over the show and storms through the kitchen, shouting, “She’s got her tea cups in with her juice glasses! Amy, you are useless!” In situations like these, Sedaris plays the straight man opposite zany characters that are also played by Sedaris. She is luminous. She makes winter bearable in her warm, colorful home, with her warm, disturbing personalities.
Sedaris told Eater that hosting friends and family is the best way to combat stress, explaining, “You get good friends together, you cook, you drink something, you smoke something. You do whatever you want to do. And you feel all right for a little while.” If you do not want to actually host anyone, you can also feel all right for a little while by watching the new TV show At Home with Amy Sedaris. You could even do both at the same time? Just grab a cow shin and a bottle of pink nail polish and you can follow along.
The show represents a fun, sloppy example of adulthood. Those are pretty rare, and Sedaris somehow makes the world seem both more surprising and more kind. It reminds me of dinner parties in college — how 20-year-olds play grown-up — which my idiot friends would show up to with boxed wine, or baked ziti with American cheese slices on top. At Home with Amy Sedaris has the same candor as a Martha Stewart blog post, the same DIY spirit and disgusting results as a Tasty video, the same comforting mundanity as Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood, and the same magic as an Easy Bake Oven.
Though it can solve anyone’s winter blues, this show is a triumph for weird girls specifically. It’s not the type of “weird” encouraged on Instagram, which is more about arranging yourself into a quirky, stylish still-life and joking about looking like a slob when you don’t actually. It’s not like Pinterest, where everything turns out perfect in the end — though occasionally things do turn out pretty good. Sedaris is dazzling, skilled, and unabashedly weird; she’s capable of making or smiling through anything. She’s unfazed when she makes a mortician cry and she grins gamely at a community theater actor who tells her, “Your hands are like the claws of a raven.” She puts a platter full of water in the middle of her dining room table and tells a guest that they just missed the most beautiful ice sculpture recreation of the iceberg that hit the Titanic.
“I’ve got a few tricks up my sleeve, also some spiders,” she says, dressed as a hobo with a foot fetish, addressing herself, dressed in a Snow White costume. Her show is not like anything you can watch anywhere else, and it’s also nothing like the real world. It’s a delight. It’s winter, and you need it.



To many, rocket science may seem like an impenetrable concept that’s just too difficult to understand, but a new book argues otherwise, aiming to break down the basic concepts behind spaceflight — to children.
The new book is appropriately titled Rocket Science, and it was written by Andrew Rader, an aerospace engineer at SpaceX, as well as an avid author and game designer. The story is complete with easy-to-follow descriptions and graphics of space travel, explaining what is needed to make rocket engines ignite, for instance, as well as how space vehicles explore our Solar System. The idea behind the book, Rader says, is to show kids that this type of science isn’t unreachable.
“The way things work in space is really just based on physics,” Rader tells The Verge. “Understanding how things work helps to keep kids interested and gives them the idea they can do it themselves.”
The book starts off with the basics: how rockets work and why they’re designed the way that they are. Rader also delves into the concept of rocket staging — the idea of stacking rockets on top of each other and then breaking them apart during launch to save on weight. His book also explains how rocket reusability works, too, showing how vehicles like SpaceX and Blue Origin’s rockets land after takeoff. “Because you shed that stuff during flight, it makes sense to get it back,” says Rader.
The second half of the book focuses on planetary exploration, detailing many of the different missions that have visited other worlds in our Solar System. It also delves into the various orbits spacecraft can take around Earth, as well as the paths vehicles travel to reach other planets.
Rader has written two previous children's books on space before this one. His other stories featured animal characters going on missions and were mostly targeted toward younger kids, between the ages of five and six. Rader says this book is targeted to a slightly older crowd, between six and 10, in order to keep up with the readers of his other books as they got older.
“We wanted to catch that same group as they got older and keep them on that trajectory,” says Rader. “Little kids love space and they naturally are interested in it, but older kids, they lose interest between the ages of six and 10, and eventually by 11 or 12 they don’t think space is cool anymore. So we wanted to keep interest going in that critical time period.”
But it’s not just kids that Rader hopes to reach. He thinks adults could benefit from the book, too. “We had a number of people read it who had no science background at all and made significant changes based on that,” he says.
To fund the book’s publication, Rader launched a Kickstarter campaign, which has already exceeded its target goal of $15,000. The book has already been sent off to print and once the campaign officially ends in the next couple of weeks, he plans to prepare shipments so that backers get their books by Christmas. So there’s still plenty of time to snag a book for the holidays.
Check out a few graphics from “Rocket Science” below:


Earlier this week, Amazon Studios revealed it was planning a prequel series to Lord of the Rings, a timid choice that passed over fresh fantasy literature in favor of a well-established and ever-expanding franchise. My colleague Andrew Liptak put forward an excellent argument for bringing new, lesser-known work into the spotlight. But since the announcement, I’ve realized that a company as powerful as Amazon could take that good advice to a level that’s downright dystopian.
Amazon has built a stable of services touching just about every part of the entertainment industry, from film and game development to ebook publishing and video streaming. It’s also built a retail empire on cheap piecemeal labor, free material generated by users, and an arcane system designed to connect people with things they want at the absolute maximum level of efficiency. So it’s not hard to imagine it — or a similarly large competitor — building a miniature film industry that looks a lot like an automated marketplace.
In Amazon’s case, the basic pieces exist already. Its Kindle Direct Publishing service would add an automatic, opt-out film or TV license — including the option for specific stipulations, like no R-rated adaptations or no character whitewashing. The synopsis would go to Amazon Studios, where aspiring directors or screenwriters could lease the rights for a production. They’d submit the final result to Amazon Studios, where a moderation team could approve it for Amazon Video.
This doesn’t actually sound bad. It combines ideas that are already in use on other web platforms — the fiction site Wattpad helps sell popular stories to studios, for example, and YouTube lets music labels automatically collect royalties from people using their songs. Ideally, the system encourages directors outside the existing film industry to build on the ideas of authors outside the bestseller lists, and give their work a place in a major streaming library. If a project is popular enough, a traditional studio could pick it up for wider release with a bigger budget, the way web series can become TV shows.
But the bigger platforms get, the scarier the idea becomes. Amazon has tremendous clout in the publishing industry, and a near-monopolistic version could make it very difficult for authors to refuse the company’s deal. It could also contractually make filmmakers’ work permanently exclusive to Amazon Video. Scammers and trolls would find ways to game a massive semi-automated catalog, just as they game Amazon’s retail marketplace. If Amazon keeps ultimate control over adaptation rights, it could even let studios pull a successful project out from under its independent creators, replacing them with a “safer,” better-known cast and crew.
And the same aversion to new work could creep into the process over time. Amazon’s Kindle Worlds, for instance, currently lets authors write tie-in stories for existing book series. Throw it (or a similar program) into the mix, you could end up with a franchise ouroboros: writers eternally churning out Amazon fan fiction for their favorite Amazon TV series, and directors processing it into spinoff after spinoff. To make things worse, it’s easier to get away with telling “fan writers” that they’re privileged simply to have their material picked up for a project, and they shouldn’t expect payment as well.
Entertainment is already being transformed by a combination of far-reaching platforms and an endless supply of free creative labor. This nightmare scenario is just the most elegantly Darwinian incarnation. It’s certainly not inevitable: even beyond the established entertainment industry, there’s a history of creative people designing systems that offer havens from exploitative platforms. When now-failed commercial fan fiction site FanLib angered a group of writers with its restrictive terms, they created Archive of our Own, a remarkably well-designed nonprofit option. The Creative Commons copyright system isn’t a discrete “platform,” but it’s a framework that lets artists operate outside the traditional copyright system without giving up all rights to their work.
Even so, if we’re talking about epic struggles for the fate of fantasy worlds, it’s worth keeping an eye on the powers that are shaping our own.


There was a lot of pomp and circumstance at SpaceX’s Hawthorne, California, headquarters for the big Tesla Semi truck unveiling. There was even a surprise cameo from the ghost of Tesla’s Christmas past: the second generation of the Roadster. But at no point did CEO Elon Musk mention the car on which the fate of his entire company still hinges: the Model 3.
It’s not totally shocking. After all, the Model 3 had its own party earlier this year. But since then, Tesla’s first high-volume, mass-market vehicle has hit a number of snags.
When Musk launched the Model 3 in July, the company was anticipating a production rate of 20,000 cars a month by the end of December. In the last quarter, though, Tesla produced only 260 Model 3s — about three cars a day. That’s well behind a normal pace of about one car per minute. Earlier this month, Tesla pushed back its target for volume production on the Model 3 — widely seen as crucial to the company’s long-term future — by about three months to fix production bottlenecks.
In all likelihood, the unveiling of the Semi truck and the Roadster was meant to achieve two outcomes: distract investors and Wall Street analysts from the Model 3’s production woes, while also recapturing some of the excitement and magic that helped propel Tesla to its current heights as one of the most valuable automakers in the US.
“I do feel like the company needed to generate a little bit of excitement,” said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of industry analysis at Edmunds. “[Musk] needed a shiny new object to wave in front of everyone’s faces.”
Some analysts feared that the truck and the Roadster would prove to be an expensive distraction for the company, which has never posted a profit and currently describes itself as in “production hell” trying to get the Model 3 out the door. Production of the truck and the sports car are aimed at 2019 and 2020 releases, respectively.
Tesla spent $1.1 billion on its auto business in the most recent quarter, and it expects expenses of $1 billion in the current one. The company had about $3.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of September 30th. At the current cash-burn rate, Tesla would likely be down to about $1 billion in cash by the end of the first quarter of 2018. That’s not good, and the potential outcome of such an event helps explain the timing of the Roadster’s reveal.
“I feel there is a combination of throwing out a bright, shiny object for the media and fans to focus on and then using that as yet another way to raise capital,” said Sam Abuelsamid, an analyst for Navigant. “Tesla is burning cash at an alarming rate and another share sale or sale of more junk bonds would be problematic.”
At the event, Musk said interested buyers could reserve a Tesla Roadster now, with a $50,000 deposit on its estimated $200,000 base price, or pick up one of the 1,000 more powerful Founders Series cars by paying the full $250,000 now. It was very clearly framed as a way for Tesla to raise a lot of money for its short-term commitments. If the company finds a thousand takers for the Founder’s series Roadsters, that’s $250 million added to Tesla’s cash balance.
“Essentially doing a Kickstarter for these cars strikes me as a cynical move by a company that is struggling to come to grips with the basics of mass manufacturing and making a profit,” Abuelsamid said. “That said, no one is holding a gun to anyone’s head and they are free to do spend their wealth however they please. There are many true believers beyond Elon himself and they want to keep funding the dream.”
For all the breathless coverage it seems to get (guilty!), it’s easy to forget how small Tesla’s impact on the automotive world really is. In the five years since Tesla started producing its Model S, the company has sold about 200,000 cars. The US has more than 250 million passenger cars on the road, making the impact of this, roughly, close to zero. Which is not to say that Tesla’s mission to liberate us from our addiction to fossil fuels isn’t noble. And the company’s ability to steer most of its competitors toward their own electrification plans is incredibly powerful and has helped solidify Tesla as a leader in sustainable transportation.
But if the company can’t get its shit together and start delivering the Model 3 in high volume, all of its efforts could be for naught. If the Model 3 fails to catch fire, demand for EVs could drop overall. States may start to reconsider tax credits and other incentives used to lure consumers to consider electric transportation. Plans to build more charging stations so people can assume a certain level of reliability may fall apart. The country could retreat further from the environmental standards and the oil and gas industry would sink its claws deeper into our institutions.
Okay, that all sounded bad. I’m not saying the future of sustainability relies on the Model 3. But in all honesty, maybe it does.


Startup accelerator Y Combinator has parted ways with Peter Thiel, where he served as a part-time adviser since 2015. The company did not specify why the two have cut ties; a short statement at the top of a Y Combinator blog post introducing and welcoming Thiel two years ago reads “Peter Thiel is no longer affiliated with Y Combinator."
The news comes a little over a year after Y Combinator was criticized for keeping Thiel on as an adviser following the VC’s public support of then-presidential candidate Donald Trump. At the time, Y Combinator president Sam Altman defended keeping Thiel onboard, tweeting that he was “not going to fire someone for supporting a major party nominee,” and that although they disagree politically, “Diversity of opinion is painful but critical to the health of a democratic society.”
Neither Thiel nor Y Combinator has responded to the press’s request for comment, though Buzzfeed reports that the part-time adviser program that Thiel had been a part of was shut down last year. At the time Thiel joined Y Combinator, other part-time advisers included Groupon’s Andrew Mason, Stripe’s Patrick Collison, and Homejoy’s Adora Cheung.


Hirokazu Tanaka has a history most game composers can only dream of. As a young sound designer working at Nintendo in the 1980s, he crafted the soundtracks to classics like Metroid, Earthbound, Dr. Mario, and Tetris. Later on, he would write songs for the original Pokémon anime. Now, a few decades later, he’s releasing his first proper solo album, a collection called Django that fuses chiptunes with techno and reggae.
Tanaka — who is releasing the album under his stage name “Chip Tanaka” — describes the new collection as “the culmination of my harder side, the kind of game music you hear in EarthBoundʼs battle tracks.” The 13 songs jump around from genre to genre. The opening track, “Ringing Dub,” starts out as a thumping electronic track, before easing in some 8-bit bloops and a more breezy reggae sound. For the most part, the album is lighthearted; it can be loud and powerful, but it never feels dark or depressing. It’s part modern pop, part tribute to classic video games.
The infusion of reggae shouldn’t be too surprising for Tanaka’s fans: the genre has been a steady influence on him throughout his career. At live shows he’s been known to mash up dub sounds with game classics like Balloon Fight. “During my 20s and 30s, I was a total reggae-head,” he told The Japan Times. “I had to cut down after a while, as I realized if I was only listening to reggae, I wouldn’t be able to make other kinds of music.”
With Django, Tanaka joins a growing list of Japanese game composers branching out into solo work. In 2015 Ninja Gaiden composer Keiji Yamagishi released the first half of his chiptune odyssey Retro-active, while Red Bull has hosted an ongoing radio series called “Diggin’ in the Carts” about Japanese game music, which included the launch of a new album this week. Meanwhile, Mega Man composer Manami Matsumae is also in the midst of working on her first solo album.
What these albums have in common is that they set these musicians free from the often restrictive world of game development. Tanaka has said that making music at Nintendo was more like a typical job than an artistic endeavor. With Django, he’s finally showing exactly what he’s capable of.
You can check out Django now on Bandcamp and iTunes.


Our first look at The Incredibles 2 is here. The sequel to Pixar’s 2004 superhero film The Incredibles will bring back the super-powered Parr family, and will pick up immediately after the closing of the first movie.
The trailer shows off one thing: babies with superpowers are dangerous. At the end of The Incredibles, Jack-Jack began to manifest powers after he was kidnapped by the super villain Syndrome. Babies are already destructive in their non-superpowered state, but in this teaser, we see just how dangerous they can be with them.
DIsney announced the sequel in 2015, originally scheduling it for 2019, but later bumped it to 2018 last year. The company showed off some footage from the film earlier this year at D23, and at the event, director Brad Bird said that advances in animation technology since 2004 has allowed them to revisit the characters, making them more realistic and making them more expressive.
The Incredibles 2 will hit theaters on June 15th, 2018.


Until this fall, Polaroid had not made instant cameras and film in about a decade and instead branched out to licensing its name to other electronic products like televisions, tablets, and even drones. But despite all that, Polaroid is still trying to keep its brand synonymous with the square instant film look. So much so that it’s demanding millions of dollars in royalty payments from Fujifilm, which found continued success with its Instax line after Polaroid exited the instant photography industry in 2008.
This week, Fujifilm filed a formal complaint to a US District Court in New York, claiming that PLR IP, the brand licensor for Polaroid instant cameras, sent the company multiple letters requesting Fujifilm either pay millions in annual royalty payments or remove its line of square-shaped Instax film from market. Previously, Fujifilm only sold rectangular Instax film, with sizes ranging from small postcards to business cards.
In the letter sent to Fujifilm, Polaroid claims that it owns the trademark to the “square within a square” effect, and that Fujifilm’s new line of film is “essentially identical” in shape and border margins. Fujifilm responded by saying that Polaroid is attempting to gain revenue from what remains of the company’s intellectual property portfolio after failing to profit from its own product sales.
The back and forth has been going on between the two companies since January, with things finally headed to court now that Fujifilm has submitted a complaint. Fujifilm is hoping the court will rule that its square Instax film do not violate Polaroid’s IP and cancel Polaroid’s trademarks.
Fujifilm isn’t the only company that continued to produce instant film since Polaroid dropped out of the business. After that announcement in 2008, a company called The Impossible Project was formed to continue manufacturing instant film (most of which were square-shaped) only for one of the investors to buy a huge stake in Polaroid then renamed the company Polaroid Originals in September 2017. It is remains unrelated to Polaroid Corporations.


I went to see Lady Bird last weekend with a small group of friends. I'd been really excited to see it: Greta Gerwig, who wrote and directed the film, has low-key established herself as one of the smartest actors and writers around, wonderfully balancing comedy and deeply revealing characters, and Lady Bird is her first directing effort.
The verdict from everyone I went to see it with is that Lady Bird is not just everything you could hope for from a Gerwig film, but it's also a straight up emotionally devastating experience. It's not a film that's actively trying to wreck you or tear you apart; there's no great tragedy in it. It's just a painfully honest and relatable movie. It relives once-serious high school dramas in such a pure way that you can't help but be hopeful and upset and crushed and wanting for everyone on screen.
Honestly, I needed to lie down after watching it. It is not a good date movie, or really a good anytime movie if you plan on doing anything else productive for the next several hours. I had to go home and eat some pizza.
Check out nine trailers from this week below.
A first look at Deadpool 2 was released this week, but naturally, it couldn't be anything so straightforward as a typical teaser trailer. Instead, you're looking at nearly two minutes of Ryan Reynolds doing his worst Bob Ross impression for the camera, with plenty of pop-culture references and crude jokes mixed in. The film comes out June 1st.
"From the director of San Andreas" is maybe all you need to know. And yes, it is based off the arcade game. The movie comes out April 20th.
Here's the first full-length trailer for The Chi, Showtime's ensemble drama about black residents of Chicago's South Side. The series is created by Lena Waithe, who played Denise on Master of None but was a writer for years before that, and it seems to be shooting for a balance between lighthearted and funny slice of life moments and the real and much darker problems, like police violence, that South Side residents have to deal with. The series starts January 7th.
Game of Thrones may be off the air, but HBO has found a reason to bring back Kit Harington. He's starring in a three-part miniseries about the Gunpowder Plot to blow up a house of the British Parliament in 1605 — you know, the whole Guy Fawkes, 5th of November thing. Harington doesn't play Fawkes, but instead stars as another plot conspirator, Robert Catesby, who he's apparently descendent from. The series starts December 18th.
This starts out looking like a typical horror film, but as the trailer goes on it reveals one neat twist: the family at the center of it has to remain as silent as possible, or else some sort of evil will come get them. It's a pretty simple premise, but it seems like it could lead to some unique scares. The film comes out April 6th.
This ridiculous-looking film feels a bit like a Wes Anderson movie without all the colors and symmetry and with the style of a 1970s crime drama. It comes from Finnish director Aki Kaurismäki and is about a Syrian refugee trying to get by in Helsinki and find his lost sister. I love what I'm seeing so far. It comes out December 1st in a limited opening.
FX's anthology crime series returns next month with an energetic and stylish new season based on the 1997 murder of fashion designer Gianni Versace. It seems like a big shift from season one's court drama, and that might just be a good thing — the advantage of having an ever-changing series is letting it change things up before the show gets tiring. The series returns January 17th.
Spike TV is being reinvented and rebranded as the Paramount Network, and with that comes a first foot in the door of Peak TV-quality dramas with Waco. The limited series stars Michael Shannon and Taylor Kitsch in a dramatized look at the religious cult at Waco. This trailer seems to be trying to draw the whole matter in a moral gray area. It starts January 24th.
Aka YouTube Disaster Clips: The Movie.


Apu from The Simpsons is a walking cartoon stereotype, but for nearly three decades he’s represented the South Asian community to Americans — a yogi with a Ph.D who’s also running the equivalent of a 7-Eleven. Stand-up comedian Hari Kondabolu is fighting to unseat Apu from his central position in the American cultural psyche. Kondabolu’s debut film The Problem with Apu is a 49-minute weird hybrid of comedy, documentary, and animated boxing match. As current societal attitudes shift toward established power structures, Kondabolu and others are edging for a reassessment of once beloved characters that are actually dehumanizing caricatures.
In the same vein, shows like Fresh off the Boat and Insecure are making the lives of minorities more mundane and mainstream, brushing off anachronisms like Long Duk Dong from Sixteen Candles and adding fresh, strong female relationships between black women. No showrunner has singled out a specter of the past so vehemently as Kondabolu does, however. Fueled by childhood scars and anger at being wronged, the comedian targets Hank Azaria, who voices Apu and who originally made the call to give the unnamed convenience store owner an Indian accent. The accent, Kondabolu argues, encouraged The Simpsons writers to go wild and give the character every hackneyed quality they perceive an Indian man might have.
Much of The Problem with Apu is spent tracking down Azaria’s agent and trying to set up an interview to hear what the man has to say to defend himself. When a response is not immediate, Kondabolu questions a Simpsons writer instead to figure out the origins of Apu. Kondabolu approaches Apu like a biographer profiling his subject, pulling out his dark secrets that average fans would never have guessed. For instance, from the Simpsons featurette interviews, Kondabolu finds that the cartoon is named after Bengali director Satyajit Ray’s Apu trilogy about a boy growing up as India modernizes. “His stories are about a multi-dimensional human being who grows living through pain, tragedy, and beauty. And to then have that name be associated with the Apu of the convenience store, of course, is such a huge diminishment,” Vogue film and TV critic John Powers tells Kondabolu in the film.
The comedian lays out a compelling case for why Apu’s fan base should disavow him: He was created by a room of white men solely to mock first-generation Indian immigrants running convenience stores, an easy and voiceless target that couldn’t necessarily fight back against that representation. Apu embodies every stereotype about Indians and leans in to these stereotypes even when they contradict each other: Apu has a Ph.D, yet he’s also running a convenience store. Even his origins are blurry, lending the character a monolithic quality and a sense that the writers really didn’t care about getting his heritage right; Apu is at times Bengali, South Indian, possibly Tamil, and Kannadigas.
Despite the current trend of shows adding greater representation for minorities, Hollywood’s lack of diversity remains a persistent problem. A report last week by Color of Change, a racial justice organization, found that over 90 percent of showrunners are white, leading to more roles for minorities as “‘cardboard’ characters, and at worst, unfair, inaccurate, and dehumanizing portrayals.” The difference now compared to even a decade ago is that we have artists like Kondabolu, Jordan Peele and Aziz Ansari challenging the status quo with films and shows like Get Out and Master of None.
In The Problem with Apu, Kondabolu melds his standup-like narrations of his investigation with social commentary from South Asian American actors, bystanders, and even EGOT winner Whoopi Goldberg. By drawing on so many voices, Kondabolu avoids the problem of becoming one man speaking for many people as Apu has represented a whole community. Most South Asian actors speaking in the film agree that they’ve been damaged by Apu in some way. Many are commonly asked to put on “the Apu accent,” and if they don’t comply, they would lose the job to the next willing South Asian actor. Even Ansari recalled men driving by him and his dad, shouting, “Hey, I need to get a Slurpee, can you tell me where the Kwik-E-Mart is? Thank you; come again!” The more overlapping voices Kondabolu adds to his indictment of Apu, the bigger the hole he digs for the character, and for Azaria. Azaria has only spoken publicly once about the controversy over Apu, in a 2013 Huffington Post article, where he said his only regret was that, “I didn’t have a chance to spend more time doing what I would consider a more perfected Indian dialect.”
As the old gatekeepers in media resisting change fall one by one, Hollywood may be transforming, although we’re still dealing with frequent reminders of the past. Returning to his standup origins, Kondabolu ends his film on a punchline: “The Simpsons is like your racist grandfather. And if he can’t change, maybe it’s time for him to die. And you can just remember the good stuff about him.”
The Problem with Apu premieres on truTV on November 19th at 10PM ET/PT and will be available on VOD on November 20th.



There’s something impressive about taking cold showers. It summons up images of military discipline, and people claim that it makes you healthier. But how much of that is true?
In my quest to find out, I came across a 2016 paper published in PLoS One on how cold showers affected health and work. The researchers recruited about 3,000 participants who, like most of us, were not used to taking cold showers. These participants were assigned to four groups. Every day for 30 consecutive days, the first group had to end their normal, blessedly warm shower with a cold shower for 30 seconds. The second group had to do this for 60 seconds, the third for 90 seconds, and the fourth was the control group that did not suffer for science.
The participants had to time themselves, too, so if they couldn’t complete the full 30–90 seconds, they had to record how long they had subjected themselves to the water. (Keep in mind that this happened in the Netherlands, in January.) After the 30 days, the participants spent another month showering however they wanted.
During this time, volunteers were asked to take a wide variety of surveys. At the end of the period, the researchers discovered an interesting finding: the people who had taken the cold showers took 29 percent fewer sick days than the others. But, crucially, they didn’t actually feel ill (as self-reported) any less often.
People who spent two months taking cold showers were just as likely to get sick, but much more likely to still go to work if they were sick, possibly because they had grown used to being uncomfortable. So in the end, maybe there is some truth to the praises of cold showers. Cold showers probably don’t make you healthier; they just make you suck it up.


Tesla's had a big week so far with the launch of its ultra fast supercar and its new electric semi truck. But what's the biggest announcement for us here at Circuit Breaker? I'm glad you asked. The company, along with all its other news, also launched a portable Tesla-themed battery that can charge iPhones, iPads, or any other device that takes a microUSB.
The 3,350mAh battery pack is modeled after Tesla’s Supercharger monument at the Tesla Design Studio, which you'd probably recognize if you live and breathe the Tesla lifestyle. You would also probably the person interested in a Tesla-branded charging pack, so that works out. It costs $45 and, unfortunately, it’s already sold out.
The company also sells a desktop Supercharger that features a USB port for any charging cable. It costs $45 as well and is also sold out. With that said, you can always make your own charger. You just need a 3D printer and some motivation.



Something that often bothers me about sci-fi is the loner inventor trope. A guy in a garage builds a robot, or AI, or frequently both that are somehow decades beyond the technology of his day, and all the wild implications of his vast technological leap are the fuel for the next two and a half hours of popcorn entertainment.
But the latest video from Boston Dynamics is the closest equivalent I've ever witnessed IRL. Sure, it’s the achievement of an entire company, and they’re doing it on YouTube for everyone to see, not in a basement. But a backflip?
It’s hard to even appreciate how hard this is for robots to do, because it’s hard to appreciate how difficult walking still is for humanoids. I wrote a whole piece about the problem of building walking robots back in 2011 — it wasn’t pretty back then, and it’s still a challenge for most full-sized humanoids.
A backflip though?
It's a barely-believable jump forward for the state of the art. It's astonishing. It's a moon landing, basically, except instead of all of the people of Earth gathering around tube televisions to witness it, it just popped up on our social feeds yesterday afternoon without warning.
Let's get a bit of historical context. Eleven years ago we were laughing as Honda's Asimo robot fell off a set of stairs.
In 2015, here's how far we'd come:
Yeah, we were challenging humanoid robots with much more complicated, dynamic, and demanding tasks than a staged ascent of a perfectly level set of shallow steps. But if you asked me, "How long until these robots are doing backflips?" in 2015, after a weekend of watching DARPA pratfalls, I would've frowned and said something like, "Ugh."
Would we have to develop some new form of organic mechanisms, more akin to the human body, to get the power / weight ratio just right? Would we have to rebuild software engineering from scratch to combine realtime responsiveness with machine learning complexity? Would we end up in some economic recession or war that would require the companies and institutions investing in humanoid robotics to stop wasting money and just ship something boring and useful?
I guess I could have said, "Maybe a decade. We have to figure out jumping first, and also running and walking." But "a decade" in the technology world means, "I literally have no idea."
And I guess I would've been right about one thing: I had no idea.
In 2016, not too long after the DARPA challenge, where many of the robots in the competition were based on Boston Dynamics' best-in-class Atlas humanoid, Boston Dynamics hit us with a new YouTube video: "Atlas, The Next Generation." The video showcased a much lighter and more agile version of the robot opening a door, walking through snow, picking up boxes, and getting hit with a hockey stick for no reason. It was a big improvement over the previous generation.
"When will it do backflips, Paul?"
"Um, a decade?"
Earlier this year, Boston Dynamics introduced an all-new robot called Handle with a four foot vertical jump. But it was a wheeled robot, and while impressive, wheels are vastly simpler than biped locomotion. What Handle proved is that Boston Dynamics could blast enough power through its hydraulics to generate the necessary force for lift-off. So all we needed was a few years of software improvements to get the balancing algorithm just right, and we could finally have jumping robots.
But yesterday, Atlas jumped on video. It leaped from box to box like a gazelle. It did a 180. And it did a backflip.
A humanoid strong enough to jump like that is capable of any "typical" human locomotion. Stairs, curbs, uneven ground, accidental jostling, sitting down, standing up, getting in and out of cars, subway lurches... all moves which are frequently performed by humans who can't land a backflip, and who get mad if you shove them with a hockey stick.
A backflip is a marvel of mechanical engineering and software control. It's a statement of power and poise. It's bonkers.
I'm certain there's still much more to do on the software side. Performing powerful jumps in a controlled, measured environment is easier than doing dynamic, improvisational parkour. And then humanoids still have to be taught how to do something useful with their newfound physical capabilities. Also, other companies will have to catch up with Boston Dynamics — just because this is possible it doesn’t mean it’s easy. We’re still a ways away from having backflipping robots as next door neighbors.
But I think we're in a new robotic age now. There was a time before Atlas could do backflips, back when robots were for factories, bomb disposal, vacuuming, and the occasional gimmick, and none of the useful ones were humanoids. Now we're living in an era where humanoid robots are apparently as agile as we are. So what will they be used for? It’s time to get out the popcorn.


Update November 17th, 4:15PM ET :  On Thursday, SpaceX stated that it had decided to stand down from the launch as it reviewed data of a fairing test the company did for another customer. SpaceX said it still had the opportunity to launch on Friday, but that the launch might not happen depending on how long it takes the company to review the test data. Now it looks like SpaceX won’t be launching in the next couple days, and the company will come up with a new launch date soon.
Sometime in the next few days, SpaceX is set to launch perhaps its most secretive payload yet: a classified government satellite built by defense contractor Northrop Grumman. The purpose of the mission, codenamed Zuma, is essentially unknown. It’s unclear what kind of spacecraft is going up, or which government agency the launch is for. All we really know is that Zuma is scheduled to go into lower Earth orbit on top of a Falcon 9 rocket out of Cape Canaveral, Florida.
The Zuma mission only became public in October, when NASASpaceflight.com reported on documents that SpaceX had filed with the Federal Communications Commission, requesting authorization for a mysterious “Mission 1390.” A few days later, several news outlets confirmed that the flight, also called Zuma, would launch a Northrop Grumman-made payload. The contractor had been assigned by the US government to find a rocket for the launch, and Northrop Grumman ultimately picked the Falcon 9.
“Northrop Grumman realizes that this is monumental responsibility and have taken great care to ensure the most affordable and lowest risk scenario for Zuma,” Lon Rains, communications director for Northrop Grumman’s Space Systems Division, said in a statement to The Verge. Northrop Grumman has not released any further information on the spacecraft.
It’s not the first time that SpaceX has launched secretive payloads into orbit. After receiving certification in 2015 to launch military satellites, the company has already launched two classified payloads, and is slated to launch even more over the next couple of years. However, all of SpaceX’s missions for the military have known customers, such as the US Air Force or the National Reconnaissance Office. So far, no government office has claimed the Zuma mission. And the NRO, which usually announces the launches of its spy spacecraft, said that Zuma doesn’t belong to the agency.
Apart from its super unique payload, this SpaceX launch is otherwise routine. When the Falcon 9 flies, it will attempt to land at SpaceX’s Landing Zone 1, located at the Cape. If that touchdown is successful, it’ll mark the eighth ground recovery for the company, and the 20th landing SpaceX has pulled off to date. Zuma also marks SpaceX’s 17th mission in 2017, the most the company has ever done in a single year, and more than double the number of missions in 2016. It’s possible the company could make an even 20 launches, if the new Falcon Heavy — an upgraded, heavy-lift version of the Falcon 9 — flies before the new year.
When SpaceX okays the launch, the Zuma mission is slated to take off from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. Initially, the launch was supposed to go up on Wednesday  sometime inside a launch window from 8PM to 10PM ET. But SpaceX has repeatedly changed the day of the mission since then. The first delay was given without a reason. “Both Falcon 9 and the payload remain healthy,” SpaceX said in a statement on Wednesday. “Teams will use the extra day to conduct some additional mission assurance work in advance of launch.” On Thursday, the company announced another delay due to a review of the fairing data, and no official date has been confirmed for now.
SpaceX’s live coverage of the launch usually starts 15 minutes prior to takeoff. Given the flight’s secrecy, chances are the live broadcast won’t follow the satellite’s deployment. Check back whenever this flight gets a date to watch as much of this mission as we can live.




It’s hard to imagine a worse time for a Punisher TV show. A little over a month after one of the worst mass murders in American history, in a country where mass shootings come at the rate of roughly one per day, the arrival of Marvel Comics’ favorite gun-wielding, spree-killing angry white man on Netflix is awkward, to say the least.
The Punisher has always been an antihero, a not-quite-good guy with a gun whose motivation for murder is initially sympathetic: bad guys killed his family, and justice has to be dispensed. When the Netflix series begins, however, he’s fresh from completing his quest for vengeance, and everyone on his original hit list is pushing daisies. If this were a movie, we’d be at the end, and it’d be time for Frank Castle (Jon Bernthal) to put the guns down, get a lot of therapy, and move on with his life. But he can’t, because then Netflix and Marvel wouldn’t have a show, so he has to keep killing.
To their minor credit, showrunner Steve Lightfoot (a Hannibal writer-producer) and his team are smart enough to realize they have to say something about gun violence. Unfortunately, they never quite figure out what that should be.
Like numerous first-person shooter games that punch above their weight class, The Punisher tries to transcend its glorified violence by glazing the story with a thin sheen of social consciousness. It feints at addressing issues like PTSD, making America great again, and the experiences of veterans returning from war zones abroad. One of Castle’s friends, Billy Russo (Ben Barnes) sets up Blackwater-esque military contracts; another, Curtis Hoyle (Jason R. Moore), runs a support group for veterans. But the show never reckons with deeper issues so much as it mentions them between fight scenes. It’s like tossing a thinking-face emoji into a gun fight, and hoping it comes across as self-aware and wise. It doesn’t. No matter how many sad faces Frank Castle makes about his trauma, The Punisher can never escape the terrible gravity that its most basic purpose is inviting viewers to enjoy watching an angry man murder as many people as he can.
It’s impossible to divorce The Punisher from guns; they are his costume, his origin story, his superpower. Lightfoot and his directors know this: the opening credits start with a slow-motion shot of a bullet firing, smoke billowing out from the barrel as the camera caresses the contours of various guns with an almost-pornographic delight. For those who might be slow on the uptake, the credits conclude with an arsenal of weapons slowly coalescing into the Punisher’s infamous skull logo. The Punisher equals guns. Got it.
This time around, Frank’s targets are corrupt military officials who are covering up war crimes in Afghanistan, like the so-called Agent Orange (Paul Schulze). The shadowy conspiracy spirals out to envelop former NSA analyst David Lieberman (Ebon Moss-Bachrach), Homeland Security agent Dina Madani (Amber Rose Revah) and everyone’s favorite Marvel Cinematic Universe journalist, Karen Page (Deborah Ann Woll).
Bernthal and the rest of the cast acquit themselves well with the material they’re given, but they aren’t given much. While Castle has a personal stake in this new drama — he served in the unit responsible for the war crimes — this series also marks the moment when he crosses the line from avenging his family to thinking he should just kill people in general, if he thinks they’re bad enough.
Gruesome revenge dramas have a long and illustrious history, from Shakespeare’s Titus Andronicus to Quentin Tarantino’s Kill Bill. At their best, they explore the primal human desire to hurt those who have hurt us, and how this ethos usually multiplies tragedies rather than bringing them to an end. A smarter show might use the Punisher’s penchant for violence and guns to explore the folly of treating them as simple solutions, or consider how Frank Castle’s lethal war on crime might be feeding the cycle of violence, rather than extinguishing it. Unfortunately, that’s not on offer.
Instead, The Punisher returns to the well of the more common and exploitative form of the revenge story, one that imagines horrible crimes and injustices in order to justify the violence fans want to see on screen, and to absolve their consciences for wanting to see it. Each cruelty and mustache-twist of the villain stokes is calculated to enrage and horrify, until knives or bullets sliding into bodies is finally experienced as pleasure and relief.
Gerry Conway, who created the Punisher in 1974, originally conceived of him as a throwaway character who would try to murder Spider-Man for a few issues. But the character’s brutal “ends justify the means” approach made him a fan favorite in his own right. Conway, who filed for conscientious-objector status during the Vietnam War, finds the lionization of the character uncomfortable, particularly by the American soldiers fighting ISIS abroad who adopted the character’s symbol. “In my mind he’s not a good guy,” Conway told Time. He thinks that what makes the Punisher compelling to some people is precisely what makes him so disconcerting to others: his ability to shoot his way past the moral complexities of a situation and never look back. “Here’s a guy that never questions himself,” says Conway. “He never asks, ‘am I doing the right thing?’ I think there is something really attractive about that to people.”
Although lauded as a badass by fans who appreciate the moral simplicity and confidence of rampant, uncaring destruction, Frank Castle is better described as a tragic character, a deeply traumatized man unable to stop killing not just because of his own fictional compulsions, but because the popular mythology of the Punisher requires it. If he were allowed to heal from the wounds of his family’s deaths or his military service, he would be a different character entirely. So he’s doomed, like a blood-drenched Sisyphus cursed to push a murder-boulder up a hill forever.
In that regard, he shares a surprising amount of thematic overlap with Batman, a similarly vengeful crime-fighting vigilante who can’t ever end his protracted crusade against wrongdoers. Both characters had their families brutally gunned down, and they responded by creating alter egos who could dispense the justice they never received from the system. But they’re most interesting in the places where they diverge. Where Batman responded to his trauma by becoming fervently anti-gun, Frank Castle swung in the other direction, by arming himself to the teeth and firing bullets in the direction of anyone he deems worthy of death. There’s a simple reason for this, from a narrative perspective: guns are expressly designed to kill. If you don’t want your vigilante hero to be a murderer, don’t give him a gun. Conversely, if you do want to see him murder people, give him lots of guns.
And he certainly has murdered a lot of people. The Punisher isn’t the first member of the superhero set to wield guns or take lives, but as is often the case with gun violence, the issue is a matter of scale. Marvel Comics editor Steven Wacker estimated earlier in 2017 that Punisher has killed 48,502 people since his first appearance, a death toll that would likely make him the worst mass murderer in history. That’s more than 16,000 gravestones for every member of his family who was killed, a vast overreaction by even the most vengeful standard.
Much like Batman will brood forever in his underground man-cave, and Spider-Man will swing forever through the streets of New York City making quips, the Punisher will always kill, because that’s what he was made for. In that way, he is very much like the weapons he carries, constructed for a singular and terrible purpose: death. It’s no surprise that he delivers on the promise, or that viewers might find something exciting and even heroic about a working-class man wielding these tools of terror on behalf of underdogs and little guys. It's hard to think of a Marvel character that better channels the mentality at the heart of the American gun epidemic; it's too bad The Punisher has so little to say about it.
The Punisher debuts on Netflix on November 17th, 2017.


Republic Wireless, a popular MVNO that runs off of Sprint and T-Mobile, offers, among other things, some pretty comprehensive Wi-Fi calling features that caught the eye of Walt Mossberg last year.
So now the company is doing something a little differently for its first hardware product, a smart speakerphone called Anywhere HQ. According to Republic’s website, Anywhere HQ syncs with your regular phone number and allows you to make and receive calls.
There isn’t a ton of information on the device out yet, but it seems that the Anywhere HQ consists of a cordless phone that lives on a dock that can also function as a speakerphone using a speaker on the back. The page also says that the speaker will include some kind of smart assistant with voice controls, although Republic isn’t offering any details on that beyond the fact that you’ll be able to start calls through voice commands.
Anywhere HQ is designed to be an extension of the existing Republic Anywhere service, which allows users to text and call from iOS, Android, Mac, and Windows PC applications in addition to their phones.
It’s still pretty early days for the Anywhere HQ; Republic is opening the speaker up to its Republic Wireless Labs test program for users to help improve the device, and there’s no price or release date announced. But in a world where companies like Google and Amazon are struggling to figure out how to make cellphone integration work with Alexa and Assistant, Republic leveraging its existing cellular knowledge could be an interesting edge.


This week on The Vergecast, Nilay, Paul, and Dieter run through a few things in the tech world that happened this week, like reviews for Google’s Pixel Buds and Microsoft’s Surface Book 2, and the announcement of the OnePlus 5T.
Also, Lauren Goode stops by the show to talk about season 2 of her video series Next Level, which takes a closer look at technology's impact on the human experience. This week’s episode featured DJI's Aeroscope technology that can track rogue drones.
There’s a lot more in between all of that — like Paul’s weekly segment “Robot dogs are people, too” — so listen to it all, and you’ll get it all.
02:50 - Microsoft Surface Book 2 review
13:12 - Google Pixel Buds review
25:40 - Next Level season 2 episode 2
47:54 - iPhone X: a few weeks later
1:01:04 - OnePlus 5T announced with bigger screen, new camera system, and a headphone jack
1:05:15 - Paul’s weekly segment “Robot dogs are people, too”
If you enjoyed this podcast and want to hear more audio from The Verge, well here you go. We have a new show Why’d You Push That Button, hosted by Kaitlyn Tiffany and Ashley Carman, which you can subscribe to right now! This week’s episode is about stalking people on Venmo.
You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by The Verge’s Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts.


Doubts that Elon Musk would be unable to put on a raucous reveal party were put to rest late Thursday night. Amid Tesla’s “production hell” this fall, the automaker delivered two beacons of hope for the California-based company’s future.
The Tesla Semi drew excitement from the crowd at the Hawthorne, California facility, as people eagerly waited for Musk to emerge from the big truck. But the surprise showing of the second-generation Tesla Roadster caused explosive cheers from the second its headlights switched on.
The excitement served as a distraction from the company’s financial and production problems for the moment. (Musk was also not nearly as energetic as he was back at the Model 3’s delivery event in July.) But his spirits were unquestionably lifted as hundreds of beaming Tesla fans projected their hope for the company’s ambitious future plans.
The Tesla Semi truck’s claimed range comfortably beat early expectations. At 500 miles, it’s roughly twice what Reuters claimed in August. It’s also more than double what Cummins and Daimler have promised so far in their planned electric trucks. That figure, and the promise of solar-powered “Megachargers” to give 400 miles of range in 30 minutes — supplementing the existing Supercharger network — should help put to rest concerns that an electric truck is impractical for hauling outside of cities.
In another attempt to put fleet managers at ease, Musk said the semi could go for 1 million miles without a breakdown, which will undoubtedly test the company’s reputation for quality. The botched launch of the Model X and its elaborate Falcon Doors, as well as reports of Model S and Model 3 cars having build-quality problems, could scare off customers in an industry that likely holds reliability and low ownership costs higher than car buyers. Yet, that hasn’t deterred a number of fleet operators —some of whom were in the audience Thursday night — from putting down preorders for a truck that isn’t even planned to start production until 2019.
While the Tesla Semi is equipped with Enhanced Autopilot, Tesla says it isn’t fully self-driving, and has moved away from claims of a self-driving truck. In fact, it spent a lot of time talking about how driver-centric it was with its center-mounted seat and space for people inside the cab. Part of that may be a backpedaling of Autopilot’s ambitions following a stern government ruling earlier this year. It may also be an appeal to the truck-driving industry in its protection of jobs.
As energized as Musk was about the semi, the whole audience was decisively more interested in the surprise at the end of the show.
The second-generation Roadster wasn’t completely unexpected, though: Musk has hinted at a revival of the sports car that established his company’s reputation for performance-oriented electric cars. That first effort, built with heavy assistance from Lotus Cars in Britain, however, has become somewhat of a distant memory since production ended in 2012. Now, Tesla wants it to be a homegrown halo car to follow up its mainstream lineup.
Well, at least what Tesla hopes its lineup will look like in 2020. You can reserve a Tesla Roadster now, with a $50,000 deposit on its estimated $200,000 base price, or pick up one of the 1,000 more powerful Founders Series cars by paying the full $250,000 now.
Let’s be honest: this is a fundraising drive for Tesla’s most loyal, trusting, and wealthiest customers. But it also has all the things that make people dream of supercars. After all the tire smoke had cleared, Musk boasted of the Roadster’s 0–60 mph time of 1.9 seconds and top speed of at least 250 mph. It’s well on its way to making it the fastest car in the world.
But there’s another big claim about the new Tesla Roadster: its 620-mile range. Musk claims that’s Los Angeles to San Francisco and back in one charge, a significant milestone for an electric car. Even most gasoline-fueled cars can’t travel that far without stopping at a pump. While the first Roadster proved electric cars could be quick and striking to look at (even with a relatively small range), the new Roadster aims to ask why the internal combustion engine needs to be around anymore.
Of course, unanswered questions loom ominously above both the Semi and the Roadster, like “how much is that truck going to be?” and “who’s going to wait three years for a Roadster?” Then there’s the whole issue of the Model 3 and when its problems will be ironed out, especially to those who were among the first in line for a car promised to be churning out of the factory at a rate of 5,000 per week at this point. There’s also the fact that Tesla is burning cash at a staggering rate right now.
But last night’s event at least gave visual clues about the company Musk wants Tesla to be at the start of the new decade. There’s a fun and functional side with both the Roadster and Semi, and further proof Tesla wants to be in every corner of the transportation world.



China-based gadget maker Xiaomi is bringing more of its products to the US this week. Two headphone models, a 10,000mAh Mi Power Bank Pro, a 360-degree camera, and a robot coding kit are all coming to Amazon. This continues the company's slow march toward wider device releases in the US.
Xiaomi currently sells its Android TV set-top box, Mi TV, at Walmart locations around the US, and previously launched items in its Mi online store for the US, including a fitness tracker, battery packs, and headphones. Those devices sold out within 30 minutes.
The Amazon-listed battery pack and 360-degree camera are already temporarily unavailable, while both of the headphones don't go on sale until November 24th. I'd assume these will sell out too, given that everyone needs headphones and apparently everyone also has a desire to buy from Xiaomi. The Mi Headphones fit over the ear and cost $129.99, while the Mi In-Ear Headphones Pro cost $25.99. I wish Xiaomi had instead decided to sell USB-C headphones or wireless ones in the US, but this is a start. Maybe its smartphones will eventually make their way stateside, too.


I’ve been using the iPhone X for about a week, and, like Nilay Patel said in his review: “The good news is that Face ID generally works great. The bad news is that sometimes it doesn’t.”
I’ve been trying to figure out what to do in those cases when it doesn’t. And, thanks to a complaint on Twitter (which, as I always say, is what Twitter is for), I have an answer.
But first, my overall take is that when Face ID works, it is magically better than Touch ID. Your phone just feels like it’s unlocked all the time, without requiring you to think about its security at all. However, the problem is that when it doesn’t work, it’s not super clear what you’re supposed to do about it.
When Touch ID fails, you just try it a second time. You reposition your thumb or you wipe your thumb or you say “screw it” and punch in the passcode. When Face ID fails, you reposition the entire phone or you just swipe up on the home bar thing. Usually, that gets it to catch.
But my particularly weird problem is that I really, really like the feature that hides notifications on the lock screen until Face ID recognizes you. But when it’s sitting on your desk (or better yet, your angled wireless charger), sometimes it won’t. At that point, I want to see my notifications, but Face ID isn’t catching. So, what next?
Me trying to get FaceID to try again pic.twitter.com/P4RhNP1WnW
I just want to see what my notifications are without picking up my phone or doing something awkward. What do I do? The iPhone doesn’t tell me.
Luckily, Alex Anderson on Twitter has told me. Give the home bar a little wiggle. Drag it up like about a quarter-inch and then push it down again. Don’t drag it up far enough to unlock the phone, just do a tiny wiggle. Face ID will then give it another shot and — by this point — you’re probably giving it the proper attention to make it work this time.
Grab the home indicator and slide up slightly then back down. Retries FaceID without unlocking
Is this a silly problem? Yes. But it’s also a thing I do hundreds of times a day, so I want it to work. Phones should be accommodating to their users, adjusting to them instead of vice versa. Sometimes it feels like the iPhone X doesn’t do that.
Apple has made the best-case scenario of unlocking your phone way better with Face ID, but good software design should guide the user toward what to do when things don’t go exactly as planned. I wish the iPhone X was as good at helping me figure out how to use it in those cases as my pal Alex on Twitter was.


Starting today, the first thing you’ll see when you walk into the Scotiabank Theatre in downtown Toronto — even before the giant Klingon Bird of Prey dangling above the escalators — is a state-of-the-art virtual reality arcade. You’ll probably even hear a few of the telltale shrieks that come from someone’s first VR experience. Today, IMAX is opening the latest of its IMAX VR centers with its first location in Canada. The launch follows VR installations in theaters in Shanghai and New York, as well as a flagship location in Los Angeles that debuted back in January.
According to Mark Welton, president of IMAX Theaters, the current locations have been successful at capturing audiences who are already going to the movies. But with its central location and prominence within the theater, the new Toronto arcade could represent something different: an experience where people go explicitly to check out the latest in virtual reality, as opposed to simply jumping in after they watch a movie. “I think this site is going to be different,” says Welton.
Design-wise, the Toronto arcade is similar to the existing IMAX VR locations. It features 10 pods, which look like vaguely futuristic cubicles that are empty aside from the necessary VR gear. The pods are designed to be modular; currently they’re small cubes, but walls can be removed to create larger spaces for more free-flowing VR installations. The current slate of VR experiences features a number of familiar faces, like the shooter John Wick Chronicles, sci-fi co-op game Raw Data, Ubisoft’s Eagle Flight, and the team-based Star Trek: Bridge Crew.
Most games use the HTC Vive, while a few utilize the fledgling StarVR headset, which features a greater 210-degree field of view. Currently, only John Wick supports StarVR, but there’s also an experience based on The Mummy in the works. Most of the experiences also utilize some form of force feedback — either through a chair or Subpac rumble backpacks — and IMAX says that it’s experimenting with potentially adding smell for a full “4D” experience.
Along with the new arcade, today also marks the launch of a new collection of Justice League experiences. The new Justice League VR game — which at launch is exclusive to IMAX — lets you play as each member of the superhero team in different scenarios, and I was able to try three of them. As the Flash, you run through a subway tunnel, dodging obstacles by stepping left and right. You can also drive the Batmobile, using the HTC Vive’s motion controllers to turn the steering wheel and fire machine guns at a seemingly never-ending onslaught of enemy vehicles. As Aquaman, meanwhile, you swim down a trench and stab a giant sea creature with a trident. Each is exciting while being simple enough you can understand in a single, short playthrough. They’re also mostly on rails so that it’s impossible to get lost.
The Justice League experience came about through IMAX’s VR fund, which will see the company co-finance an expected 25 VR experiences over the next three years. The idea is to partner with prominent names in the film space — so far the likes of Justin Lin and the Russo brothers have signed up — to create exclusive experiences that make sense in a theater environment. IMAX is also working with Google to develop what it describes as a “cinema-grade VR camera” for these filmmakers to utilize. It’s expected to launch in 2018.
Though it’s been close to a year since the first IMAX VR location debuted, the project is still very much a work in progress. Welton describes it as being in a “pilot phase.” Certain elements, like pricing and content, are still in flux and regularly change. At the Toronto location, for instance, you can buy tickets for each individual experience, which range for $8 to $15 and last an average 10 minutes each. Meanwhile, other locations include an option to buy a ticket that gets you an unlimited amount of play within a fixed period of time.
The team at IMAX is also still figuring out what, exactly, theatergoers want out of a VR experience. According to Welton, over the first 10 months of the project people have gravitated to more social experiences; not just ones that are fun to play together, but also ones that are entertaining to watch as a group. (The VR pods feature low walls on one side so it’s easy to see people flailing about while pretending to be The Flash.) IMAX has also introduced a new color-coded system that gives you a better idea of what kind of VR experience you’re in for when you buy a ticket. Each individual experience is given a handful of qualifiers — such as “casual,” “action,” “physically active,” or “age restrictive” — so you know what you’re spending $10 on.
Despite its prominent location, the new Toronto VR arcade doesn’t necessarily represent a future direction for these installations. Instead, Welton says, IMAX will be tailoring each arcade to its location’s specific needs. There are plans for six more VR setups in theaters across the globe; an upcoming Manchester location, for instance, will feature a VR arcade in a prominent shopping plaza across the street from a theater. The idea is to try different things, and see what works. “We’re changing constantly,” says Welton.


Hot on the heels of Tesla’s big event last night, Walmart says it has preordered 15 of the electric automaker’s new semi trucks, according to CNBC. The deal was likely in the works before Tesla unveiled its new truck to the public, but interest from the world’s biggest retailer in battery-powered transport is still a huge boost of confidence for Elon Musk and his mission to electrify the industry.
Update: Wal-Mart says it’s preordered 15 of Tesla’s new electric tractor trailers https://t.co/hv1SaZlyNb
The pilot is planned for the US and Canada. Five of the preordered vehicles will be for Walmart’s US business, and 10 will be for its Canadian routes, the company said. Walmart's fleet has about 6,000 trucks.
"We have a long history of testing new technology – including alternative-fuel trucks – and we are excited to be among the first to pilot this new heavy-duty electric vehicle," the company said in a statement. “We believe we can learn how this technology performs within our supply chain, as well as how it could help us meet some of our long-term sustainability goals, such as lowering emissions.” (A Tesla spokesperson declined to comment on its customers.)
Musk said the truck would enter production in 2019. Trucking industry veterans are watching closely to see how Tesla addresses some of the big hurdles in its path, such as per-mile cost, gaps in EV charging infrastructure, and maintenance issues.
Walmart wasn’t the only one to preorder Tesla’s new truck right out of the gate. JB Hunt Transport Services, a 56-year-old company based in Arkansas, said it had reserved “multiple” new Tesla trucks as well. "We believe electric trucks will be most beneficial on local and dray routes, and we look forward to utilizing this new, sustainable technology," John Roberts, president and chief executive officer, said in a statement.



Virgin Orbit — one of the Virgin Group’s three primary space companies — has scored a deal with the Department of Defense, agreeing to launch experimental satellites for the agency on the company’s future LauncherOne rocket. The mission, slated for 2019, marks the first national security agreement for the private spaceflight company.
While its sister company Virgin Galactic is focused on space tourism, Virgin Orbit’s goal is to launch small satellites with its LauncherOne. The rocket is designed to take off from the air, after riding to an altitude of 35,000 feet under the wing of a Boeing 747-41R aircraft called Cosmic Girl. After dropping from the wing, Launcher One will fire its engine, carrying its payloads into orbit. Ultimately, the rocket can carry up to 1,100 pounds, perfect for small- to medium-sized satellites.
Virgin Orbit already has a number of customers lined up to fly on LauncherOne, from commercial small satellite operators to NASA. But the venture is also interested in launching national security satellites. That’s why it recently formed a subsidiary known as VOX Space, aimed at setting up deals with the defense and intelligence community. “Anything where the payload itself needs to be handled in a secure facility, they will be involved in mission planning,” Will Pomerantz, vice president for special projects at Virgin Orbit, tells The Verge of VOX Space. “They’re there to keep both the physical stuff and data safe and secure.”
But first, Virgin Orbit needs to finish testing its rocket. The first complete LauncherOne test vehicle was recently transported from the company’s Long Beach factory to its testing facility in Mojave. “We’re really excited our first rocket has left the building,” says Pomerantz. “It puts us another step closer to our first flight.”
In Mojave, the vehicle will only be tested on the ground. Ultimately, the company plans to build around five LauncherOnes for testing over the next few months, Pomerantz says. In the meantime, the company has built most of its first orbital vehicle, which could launch for the first time early next year. If that launch is a success, Virgin Orbit will start putting customers on the next flights, according to Pomerantz.
Virgin Orbit’s LauncherOne program may also soon benefit from the Virgin Group’s recent deal with Saudi Arabia, which agreed to invest $1 billion in the company’s space ventures. The deal is still waiting approval by the US government, and it’s unclear how much of the investment Virgin Orbit will receive. But that much money could really help speed up the LauncherOne program — and make the vehicle active sooner than later.


The first teaser trailer has dropped for the highly anticipated Deadpool 2. The trailer opens with Deadpool (Ryan Reynolds) dressed in a collared shirt and curly wig, spoofing Bob Ross’ The Joy of Painting, except it’s called “Gettin’ Wet on Wet with Deadpool 2.” He’s seen puttering around, muttering about the colors he’s using in his painting (which include “mennen black,” “box office gold,” “doc brown,” “pretty n’ pink,” “silverlicious,” “yellow snow,” “red dit,” and “Betty White”). “God I love cocaine,” he remarks to a painting of a snowy mountain range that suddenly appears after he haphazardly brushes the canvas.
The video then cuts to a 10-second montage of moments in the upcoming film. The fleeting scenes feature Dopinder (Karan Soni), the taxi driver from the first movie; Negasonic Teenage Warhead (Brianna Hildebrand) in the iconic yellow-and-black X-Men suit giving someone the finger and generally looking pretty badass; and teasers of new characters, including Zazie Beetz’s Domino, and a new character played by Julian Dennison. It’s literally a blink-and-you’ll-miss-it situation, as the montage is cut so quickly, but it’s worth watching a few times if you’re curious about what the next movie will be like.
Deadpool is up to his usual antics: there’s fire, guns, a truck ploughing into something, rain, explosions, and Deadpool sitting up from a coffin. It all looks pretty promising. Deadpool 2 will hit theaters on June 1st, 2018.



For the first time, scientists have confirmed a diagnosis of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) — a neurological disease linked to head injuries from sports like football — in a living person. Until now, we’ve only been able to diagnose CTE in dead patients. Finding the disease while the patient is still alive could help scientists find a way to treat it.
CTE develops from repeated hits to the head and has been linked to severe memory loss, depression, and dementia. It’s been found in 99 percent of the donated brains of NFL players. In a study published in the journal Neurosurgery, researchers found a telltale sign of CTE, a specific protein, in the brains of 14 retired NFL players who underwent a brain scan. Now that one of the players has died and doctors have been able to take a closer look at his brain, they have confirmed the CTE diagnosis.
Many former National Football League players like Aaron Hernandez and Junior Seau have been found to have the progressive brain disease. Last year, the NFL reached a billion-dollar settlement, the largest in sports history, over a lawsuit from former players who suffered concussions and now have severe neurological diseases like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrig’s disease).
The subject of the paper was former NFL player Fred McNeill, according to CNN. McNeill played 12 seasons in the National Football League for the Minnesota Vikings, reporting one concussion. But by the time he was 59, McNeill was already experiencing serious problems with his motor skills, and so he sat for the brain scan. Scientists found increased levels of certain proteins in his brain, including the tau protein, which has been linked to Alzheimer’s. After McNeill died two years ago, at 63, detailed brain-tissue analysis confirmed that his brain had other physical signs of CTE, suggesting that the tau protein is linked to the disease. A study from September suggested that the levels of another protein, called CCL11, may also be used to diagnose CTE in living patients.
Right now, the data on CTE is skewed. Being limited to donated brains means scientists are studying the brains of people whose relatives probably already suspected that something was wrong. One study, for example, showed that playing high school football, was not linked to cognitive problems later in life. So being able to diagnose people while they’re still alive could tell us a lot about how common CTE really is, and it could be crucial for developing treatment for players while they’re alive.
More studies are needed to confirm this method, according to the researchers, and some scientists are skeptical. Lili-Naz Hazrati, a neuroscience researcher at Toronto’s Hospital for Sick Children, told the Chicago Tribune that tau can be found in healthy brains, too. Having a robust way of detecting CTE may still be far off, but we may be one step closer. And if this pans out, it could be a game-changer for athletes.


MoviePass, the subscription movie ticketing service, just launched its cheapest plan yet: $89.95 per year, paid up front. That includes a $6.55 processing fee, meaning the monthly price before the fee comes out to around $6.95, Deadline reports.
This is the second time in the past few months that MoviePass has dropped its prices to lure new customers. In August, the company moved from a tiered pricing plan that ranged from $15 to $50 per month, to a flat fee of $9.95 per month.
MoviePass says the offer, available now for a “limited time,” will only last for one year, billed up front, and then revert back to $9.95 per month. As Slash Film points out, current users can switch over to the yearly plan, but new subscribers can only choose the yearly plan until the offer period is up. MoviePass also says it won’t be offering refunds if you cancel an annual subscription before the year is up.
“We are entering the prime movie going season, so now is the perfect time to take advantage of the MoviePass movement,” Mitch Lowe, CEO of MoviePass, said in a statement.
After the price drop this summer, MoviePass saw a massive boost in subscriber numbers. Last December, the service only had around 20,000 subscribers. This October, it had more than 600,000, according to MarketWatch.
But the company’s business plan hasn’t been so eagerly welcomed in the movie industry. In August, AMC Theaters, the largest movie chain in the US, threatened MoviePass with a lawsuit and claimed that the company’s business model was unsustainable. MoviePass pays theaters the full price for each ticket, except at a few theaters where it gets a discount, Wired reports. The average cost of a movie ticket in North America is $8.84, according to The Hollywood Reporter, which means if subscribers on the new plan attend just one screening per month, MoviePass will already be losing money.
The company’s plan to make money is a little unclear. Lowe has said that MoviePass subscribers spend more money on snacks than the average movie-goer, and that those costs will help make up the ticket price, according to Business Insider. It also might sell your data: this summer, the company sold a majority stake to the data firm Helios and Matheson Analytics Inc, and it hopes to eventually use the data from subscribers for marketing and advertising materials.
The Verge has reached out to MoviePass and will update with any new information.


Apple has delayed the release of its HomePod speaker until 2018. In a statement to The Verge, Apple says that it needs more time to work on the HomePod. “We can't wait for people to experience HomePod, Apple's breakthrough wireless speaker for the home, but we need a little more time before it's ready for our customers,” an Apple spokesperson said. “We'll start shipping in the US, UK and Australia in early 2018."
The speaker was originally set to be released in December. Priced at $349, the HomePod is slated to take on higher-end sound systems like Sonos, as well as smart assistants like the Amazon Echo and Google Home.
The cylindrical speaker features a seven-speaker array of tweeters, a four-inch subwoofer, and a six-microphone array, which puts it right on par spec-wise with the best speakers in its price range, but where it may fall short is Siri, which isn’t really in the same class as Alexa or Google Assistant. That challenge is likely why Apple’s focus at the launch of the HomePod back at WWDC in June was music first and smart features second.
It’s unclear exactly why Apple had to push back the release of the HomePod, but pulling out of the holiday rush isn’t something that any company takes lightly. With no firm release date — early 2018 is vague at best — it could be a while before we actually see the HomePod on sale.


The Lenovo Yoga 920 is the direct sequel to Lenovo’s Yoga 910 convertible laptop. Before every Windows PC company was making 2-in-1 computers, it was Lenovo’s line of 360-degree hinged laptops that pioneered the form factor, which combines a laptop design with some tablet functionality.
If you’re keeping track, improvements made since the Yoga 910 include the addition of Thunderbolt 3, new webcam location, a Windows Precision touchpad, better battery life, heat management, and finally, the bundled active pen.
Now that there are so many other 2-in-1 convertibles, including excellent options from HP and others, what makes the Yoga 920 special? It turns out, quite a few things.
The Yoga 920 is a premium computer that starts at $1,199. That gets you a Full HD display, 256GB SSD, 8GB of RAM, and an eighth-generation Core i5 processor. The unit I’ve been testing has all of those same specs, save for an eighth-generation Core i7 chip, which bumps the price up to $1,299.
There are a few optional extras you can tick off to splurge on the Yoga 920, including a 4K display, 16GB of RAM, and a 1TB SSD, taking the grand total all the way to $1,999.
Lenovo’s hinge design for the Yoga laptops has become its signature, like the oddly placed camera on a Dell XPS 13, or the Touch Bar on a MacBook Pro. It’s perhaps one of the most robust and unique laptop hinges in use. It reminds me of a metallic mesh watch band (my favorite), but the design not only allows the screen to flip fully behind the keyboard, it also hides the computer’s ventilation system.
This particular Yoga 920 has a bronze metallic finish throughout. You can go for platinum or copper instead, but I’ve taken a particular liking to this color scheme. It makes the Yoga 260 look even sleeker than its 0.55-inch thickness would lead you to believe.
However, this smooth finish and color makes it a fingerprint magnet, which means it requires quite a bit of upkeep to stay spotless. That also goes for the 13.9-inch touchscreen, but I’ll address that later.
Aesthetics aside, its structural integrity is what makes it awesome. There’s no flex, and no sense of flimsiness anywhere with metal chassis and accents everywhere.
Consequently, the heavy use of metals makes the Yoga 260 — you guessed it — heavy. Its three-pound weight isn’t abnormal (the 13-inch MacBook Pro weighs about the same), but other similar Windows PCs, like HP’s Spectre 13 x360, weigh noticeably less. I don’t consider it a deal-breaker, but I do feel the added weight on my shoulder when carrying the 920 around.
Despite the high mark the Yoga 920 scores in the design department, nothing is perfect, and that’s very clear when you learn about Lenovo’s storage solution for the included pen. It’s basically a 3D-printed piece of plastic that clips into the computer’s sole USB-A port and offers a slot to slide the pen in.
Yes, you’ve sacrificed your only full-size USB port to hold the pen with a piece of plastic. A magnetic solution would be better.
One of the many things I enjoyed about using the 920 every day for two weeks, was how easy it was to live with. All methods of input, which include the precision touchpad, touchscreen, keyboard, and active stylus were accurate, with no malfunctions or evidence of subpar build quality. I never once had to fight the system to use it, a trait I often attribute to Surface devices due to solid marriage between software and hardware.
My only qualm with the keyboard is that it uses a key shape that’s like a square at the top, but a semicircle near the bottom. Similar to a MacBook Pro keyboard, the Yoga 920’s keys are shallow with little travel. It takes a few rapid-fire paragraphs to avoid touching the wrong keys, but once you get used to it, it’s not much of an issue. Otherwise, a useful set of function keys adorn the top row. Meanwhile, the Fn + Space bar key combo controls the three backlit keyboard settings: off, dim, or bright. Unfortunately, there isn’t an automatic mode for the backlight.
Windows OEMs are slowly adopting Windows Precision touchpad drivers for their laptops and Lenovo is no exception here. Windows 10’s multitouch gestures are smooth, scrolling is natural, and the trackpad itself is large enough to avoid feeling cramped.
The pen is just about as useful as any other active pen bundled with a Windows 10 machine: it’s useful to doodle The Verge logo in a pinch, but not something I found integral to my day-to-day use.
Right out of the gate, the Yoga 920 comes with Intel’s new eighth-generation Intel Core processors. Never mind the low clock speeds; this chip generation is optimized for multitasking and battery conservation.
Intel’s Core i7-8500U chip inside the Yoga 920 is clocked at 1.80Ghz (1.99GHz TurboBoost), with 8GB of RAM to help it along, with a fast NVMe 256GB solid state drive. It’s excellent at multitasking and powers through heavy workload apps, like Photoshop.
If you’re really into using Cortana (or just your voice in general), then you’ll be glad to know the Yoga 920 has far-field microphones with a range of about 20 feet. However, if you’re more of a listener, then the twin JBl speakers have you covered. They sound excellent, with a warm and full-bodied sound. But they do have one flaw: poor placement. They’re underneath the front lip of the chassis, so they’re prone to being obstructed on a bed, or anywhere that isn’t perfectly flat.
The 1080p display won’t wow anyone with its pixel density, but it’s a very serviceable screen for most uses. Viewing angles are excellent, meaning you can flip the Yoga 920 around into its tent mode and watch Netflix with a friend without having to elbow each other to see the display. Its colors are bright, with excellent contrast, and it has a suitable level of brightness. Above the FHD screen is a 720p webcam, which, unfortunately, lacks clarity and isn’t as good as most front-facing smartphone cameras. It can be useful for the occasional Skype call, but that’s about it.
That display likely contributes to the 920’s stamina on battery. It just won’t die. I’ve routinely been able to go between 11 and 12 hours between charges. That’s with Bluetooth off, at least 70 percent brightness on HD playback via Chrome, and some multitasking going on in the background. No matter how I slice it, the Yoga 920 has an excellent battery that outlasts the other 2-in-1 laptop of note, the Spectre x360.
As for ports, there are four on the Yoga 920. A USB 3.0, two Thunderbolt 3 / USB-C ports (only one works with the supplied USB-C charger, sadly), and a 3.5mm audio jack.
Windows Hello can work well with a fingerprint sensor, which the Yoga 920 has. Unfortunately, it’s not the fastest sensor I’ve used. There is a brief pause before it seems like the Yoga realized my finger was even on the sensor. Compared to the Touch ID system on Apple’s MacBook Pro, the Yoga’s fingerprint sensor is noticeably slower. The facial recognition implementation of Windows Hello has also been faster on other laptops, in my experience.
The Lenovo Yoga 920 is the best 2-in-1 Windows laptop this year. The user experience is straightforward, it benefits greatly from having an eighth-gen Core processor, and it has excellent battery life and a robust, compelling design.
Overall, there aren’t major pitfalls to the Yoga 920, with only a few quirks that could easily be addressed in future iterations. It’s a solid pick for college students, creatives who want an active pen experience, or anyone who wants to know how good a 2-in-1 really is.


If you needed one more reason to love your puppy, here’s a pretty good one: your furry best friend might help you live longer.
Researchers in Sweden tracked more than 3.4 million Swedish people with no heart disease over a period of 12 years. Some owned dogs and some didn’t. By looking at how many died in the 12-year follow-up, and adjusting for relevant factors like age and sex, the scientists calculated the risk of death. It turns out that dog owners had a 20 percent lower risk of dying compared to people who didn’t have a dog. The benefits were particularly strong for dog owners who lived alone: they had a 33 percent lower risk of death, and an 8 percent lower risk of cardiovascular disease, like stroke and heart failure.
Research has shown that living with pets has certain health benefits: people who own dogs tend to be more physically active, for instance, and have lower blood pressure. Today’s study, published in the journal Scientific Reports, adds to the body of research, especially in regards to cardiovascular disease — the number one killer in the world, including in the US. “It could be a very efficient lifestyle intervention to get a dog,” says senior study author Tove Fall, an associate professor in epidemiology at Uppsala University. “For some people that feel lonely or have problems of keeping a good lifestyle, this could be a good help.”
For the study, researchers analyzed 12 years of government-collected data on 3.4 million Swedish residents, which includes information on birth, sex, age, health, marital status, as well as death. Since 2001, dog owners in Sweden have had to register their dogs by using an ear tattoo or under-skin chip, so the researchers could also check which of those 3.4 million people owned a puppy. Dog owners were then compared with pet-less people: those who had a dog were found to have a lower risk of death due to cardiovascular disease or other causes during the 12-year follow-up. Dog owners who lived alone had a lower risk of cardiovascular disease, as did people who had hunting dogs compared to other breeds.
The exact reasons behind the results aren’t clear: it could be that people who own dogs live longer because they’re more physically active, or are less stressed, Fall tells The Verge. People who live alone may benefit even more because they’re the only ones taking care of the dog, so they’re forced to go take the pooch out for a walk. Single people might also get a stronger emotional support from their furry friends since they don’t live with a husband or have kids, Fall says. “I got my first dog when I was single and she was my best friend,” she says. “She was super important.”
The study has some obvious limitations: even though the researchers adjusted their estimates for confounding factors such as income and education, there’s a lot they still don’t know about their study subjects. For example, it could be that people who live alone and have dogs have a lower risk of cardiovascular disease because they’re generally healthier to begin with. Getting a dog is time-consuming and expensive, so if you’re dealing with an important health issue and live by yourself, maybe you’d think twice about it. The study subjects were also all from Sweden, so results could be different in different countries.
Still, the researchers looked at a lot of people, and that makes their results stronger. The study is also in line with what other research has found — and what dog owners have probably long known. Fall says her family has an “active little dog,” a Kooikerhondje retriever, whom her kids love playing with in the forest. “We really think that it adds to the well being in the family,” Fall says. “It’s really nice when you come home and you had a crappy day but the dog won’t care. It just jumps up, wags the tail, and is happy anyway.”


What’s in Your Bag? is a recurring feature where we ask people to tell us a bit more about their everyday gadgets by opening their bags and hearts to us. This week, we’re featuring Verge senior editor Paul Miller.
I carry a bag because I need my laptop with me, and because I have a laptop-sized bag, I end up with a lot of junk that accumulates in the pockets and crevices. Therefore, I wouldn’t think of this setup as some sort of thoughtful expression of my needs and priorities. It’s more of a snapshot of which particular junk is the best at hiding.
This photo is disgusting, and I’m sorry. My bag is very dirty. I’ve been wearing it constantly for over three years straight, and apparently I’m also a chimney sweep? But this bag checked all the boxes for me when I bought it, and I have zero complaints. It’s not a messenger bag, because those hurt my neck and shoulders. It has a water bottle holder on the side because sometimes I get thirsty. There’s a laptop sleeve on the inside. You can strap a skateboard or a U-lock to it without much trouble. And it’s waterproof enough that I can bike in the rain.[Copy editor’s note: I have requested that Paul wash his bag. I will update this post if / when that happens.]
I don’t always listen to what Vlad says, but I bought this pair of Zero Audio Carbo Tenore headphones just like he told me to, and I don’t have any regrets.
I do regret #donglelife, but I’d rather have good headphones and the dongle inconvenience than bad headphones and Bluetooth freedoms.
You can’t see in this photo, but my iPhone 7’s screen is still cracked.
I am a headphone murderer. I’m mean and bad to headphones, and I’m sorry. I bought these Senso headphones to try out the Bluetooth life because they were cheap and had good reviews on Amazon. I didn’t love them, but I also didn’t mean to let them get crushed at the bottom of my bag and become totally busted.
My EarPods are my headphones of last resort. The sound only half works in one of the ears, and obviously I can’t use them with my laptop. But sometimes I forget my regular headphones or lose the dongle, so I’m left with no choice.
I renewed my driver’s license, but it never arrived in the mail. So when I want to buy cigarettes or drink alcohol, I have to pull out my passport to prove how old I am. Please don’t rob me.
My mom and dad bought me this Knomo wallet at a mall maybe a decade ago. I like it because it’s easy to get my subway card in and out. It’s totally falling apart, but I think I can squeeze another year or two of life out of it.
At Burger King, I got a two-cheeseburger meal, which is like three or four dollars. What a deal! Don’t know why I saved the receipt, though.
I used to have a toothpick container in my bag, but then it broke and now I just find toothpicks everywhere. Here are a few of them. Also I forgot this fidget spinner was even in my bag, and I promise I haven’t fidget spun since the fad ended!
Maybe Emergen-C is just a placebo but it is the most effective placebo for oncoming colds ever discovered on this planet. Fisherman’s Friend is only for very bad coughs, if the Emergen-C didn’t work out.
The tablets are some form of acetaminophen. Maybe a sleepy kind? Not sure, there’s not a lot of info on the back. Guess these are nice to have, though. Glad I found them.
These are my new pair of glasses! I have another, secret pair of glasses that I call my “racecar” glasses because they make my face look like a racecar. These new glasses are maybe cool enough to actually wear out and about, but I really just need them for reading.
I need something more formal to hold my new camera, but for now this canvas tote is doing fine. I don’t think that’s a blood stain on the bottom right corner, but it certainly does look suspicious.
I really love this camera. It’s really affordable for what you get, and the lenses I buy for this will work great with higher-end Sony E-mount cameras if I decide to upgrade. Unfortunately, I skipped the kit lens and got Sony’s 50mm prime lens as my starter. It’s wonderful and creates beautiful images, but it’s a 75mm equivalent on this crop sensor, and therefore the type of shots I can get is very limited.
This is a 13-inch MacBook Pro. Late 2015. Boring!
But check out this USB cable. It was a pack-in with my Senso Headphones for some reason. That Lightning connector pulls off to reveal a Micro USB connector, but thanks to a marvel of engineering, you don’t immediately lose the Lightning adapter. This is my backup for when I forget all my “regular” cables, and it ends up saving me at least once a week.
I also have an Anker battery pack that I forget to bring with me sometimes (like the day of this photo shoot), but it’s the same one Dieter has.
That 8GB Lexar drive is ancient, but look at that E Ink capacity indicator! I already wrote a whole piece about how disappointing this replacement headphone dongle was, but somehow it’s still floating around in my bag, being disappointing. The gold coin somehow ending up in my backpack is a distant effect of a prank by my roommate. I have a whole bag of them under my bed, if you’re interested.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.


The Federal Communications Commission voted yesterday to begin overhauling a program known as Lifeline that provides discounted internet and phone service to low-income homes. The changes immediately affect discounts available on Tribal lands by vastly limiting who can receive them. The commission also said it would begin considering a laundry list of proposals that include putting a spending cap on the program, severely constraining which providers can offer discounted service, and giving up federal approval of providers as well.
FCC chairman Ajit Pai began halting the Lifeline program back in February, immediately after stepping into his new role. The program offers $9.25 off of phone or internet service every month to households near or below the poverty line. Households on Tribal lands are also eligible for an additional $25 discount. But Pai has argued that the program is rife with wasted spending and is doing a poor job of encouraging service providers to reach homes that remain unconnected.
Yesterday’s vote passed a rule that will immediately limit the additional Tribal discounts to people in rural areas only, whereas before it was available more broadly “in recognition of not only the low income levels but also the particularly poor connectivity on many Tribal lands.” Pai hopes that by limiting the additional subsidies to rural areas, it’ll encourage providers to build networks that cover those lands.
FCC commissioner Mignon Clyburn said that the commission had failed to properly consult with Tribes before making this change. “The Tribes have told us that losing enhanced Lifeline support would be devastating,” she said in a dissenting statement.
Those are the immediate changes, but what’s coming next could be even more damaging for low-income consumers. The commission also approved a proposal to consider limiting Lifeline subsidies to providers that own and operate their own networks — meaning that MVNOs wouldn’t be able to offer the discount. Clyburn says this rule could mean that “over 70 percent of wireless Lifeline consumers will be told they cannot use their preferred carrier and preferred plan.”
Republican FCC commissioners view the proposal as a way to target money to companies that are actually capable of building out networks, and therefore reaching new areas and serving new consumers. This logic doesn’t really add up: MVNOs pay network owners for the service they use; there’s still no reason for Comcast and the like to spend millions building out to a rural area to serve a small number of consumers; and this does nothing to help people actually afford internet service, which is the real goal of Lifeline. But I guess if the goal is to give those companies more money and cross your fingers hoping they do something good with it, then this accomplishes everything the commission could dream of.
While that’s only a proposal for most of the US, the commission actually went ahead and voted that rule in for Tribal lands already.
On top of all of this, the Republican commissioners still want to make a bunch of changes to reduce perceived waste and abuse in the system. Last year, a Government Accountability Office report that said the program is losing money to fraud to has oversight issues, though it was conducted on a small sample and done before additional reforms were put in place.
To reduce those issues, the FCC will now consider putting a hard spending cap on the Lifeline program, which basically means it won’t be able to scale if the system needs to grow to accommodate more low-income households. For a program with the goal of getting low-income homes connected, that could dramatically limit its effectiveness.
The FCC is also considering handing a lot more control of the program over to states. When the Lifeline program was revamped to include broadband service two years ago, the commission took control of the ability to approve companies to offer subsidized service. The purpose of this was to make it easy for companies to sign up — rather than risk letting states delay or reject them — so that the commission could get as many as possible on board and give as many low-income households as possible the ability to get Lifeline discounts. Now, however, the commission is looking at handing that ability to the states, which would slow the program’s expansion.
As of today, the biggest changes are limited to Tribal lands. But next year, the commission is certain to consider a final version of these proposals — one that will very likely curtail low-income consumers’ ability to get subsidized service in the name of limiting waste and encouraging infrastructure spending from massive internet providers by giving them more money.
Commissioner Clyburn summed the day’s proceeding up sadly and succinctly, with a reference to the commission’s earlier approval of zero-rating programs: “I could go on pointing out how this administration enables providers to provide free data to consumers,” she said, “but not if they are economically poor.”


Google Assistant can help you troubleshoot issues you might encounter on your phone, though the feature is only available for Pixel 2 users at the moment, according to Android Police. A user running Android Oreo 8.1’s developer preview asked Google Assistant why their phone wasn’t charging fully, and a troubleshooting feature jumped into gear. A battery health check was run and the virtual assistant also scanned the phone for apps that might be causing the battery to drain.
Once that was complete, the Assistant displayed an option to connect the user to Google Support via phone or chat. The system seems pretty intuitive, the only minor issue was the Assistant didn’t recognize a phone number input when prompted.
Google Assistant appears to also be able to run diagnostic tests on the camera and Bluetooth connectivity. Android Police also noted that not all the features seem to be working at the moment, and might just be exclusive to Pixel 2 users in the US that have the dev preview for Android Oreo. This feature seems pretty helpful, and would be even better if it wasn’t limited to Pixel 2 devices, so fingers crossed a wider release is forthcoming to all devices running Oreo.


Two for the price of one. Two birds with one stone. Two heads are better than one. It’s a fairly simple concept: if having one of something is good, then having two of that thing is even better.
At face value, ZTE’s Axon M doesn’t look like a $725 smartphone. The design is chunky for a modern phone, although the squarish aluminum chassis is comfortably weighty to hold. Turn on the device, and you’re greeted by a 5.2-inch, 1080p panel with bezels that feel massive compared to more modern devices like the Essential Phone, Galaxy S8, and iPhone X. The rest of the specs are just okay, with last year’s Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 processor and 4GB of RAM. Even the software is a year old: it runs Android Nougat, instead of Oreo (although ZTE is promising an update further down the line).
But the Axon M has a trick up its sleeve, something that no other phone is equipped with. More accurately, this trick is hidden behind its back: a second screen, that flips out to create a mini tablet of sorts. So, let's talk about those screens.
Like the “main” screen, the second Axon M screen is an identical 5.2-inch, 1080p display, which results in a larger 6.75-inch combined screen when unfolded. There are three different modes ZTE offers for taking advantage of the second display, which can be switched between through an extra “M” button that the company adds next to Android’s usual software buttons for going back, home, and multitasking.
First up is the simplest mode, called “dual mode.” As the name may suggest, dual mode lets you run two apps side by side, one on each screen. It works in both portrait and landscape modes, and it’s probably the most useful and most functional of the three modes. Being able to run Google Maps side by side with an email so I could get directions while looking up what floor I was supposed to go to was actually kind of useful, or even just the ability to message a friend while not leaving the YouTube video I was watching all works well. In dual-screen mode, each app gets its own set of software hot keys, letting you close out one and open up a new one without disturbing the other. The Axon M also manages audio, so that you’ll only hear the screen you’re actively interacting with if both are trying to play. And while the specs aren’t the latest and greatest, the Axon M still holds up well, even for more demanding tasks like watching Netflix and playing a game at the same time.
Next is “extended mode,” which lets you run a single app on both screens in a tablet-like experience. Out of the box, ZTE has worked to optimize some of the more popular apps in the Play Store, including Facebook, Chrome, YouTube, and Twitter, but if your app hasn’t been optimized for the Axon M, you’ll need to force it to manually run in full-screen in settings through a universal toggle. Generally, everything I tried worked mostly well, even apps that weren’t specifically optimized for the larger screen, but your mileage may vary depending on what app you’re using.
More disappointing is that oftentimes I couldn’t really find a reason to actually use extended mode. Video — which would seem to be the best use for the larger screen — tends to gain the least from the second display. It gives you a marginally larger picture at the expense of large black bars on the top and bottom, and a bezel divides the screen in the middle; 4:3 fullscreen formatted content fares much better, but I can’t recommend buying a $725 smartphone to watch Cheers or Fraiser reruns on Netflix.
It’s also strange how much ZTE pushes video on the Axon M, too. There’s even a dedicated hardware button that can be mapped to instantly launch video apps like YouTube, Netflix, or DirecTV with a single press. (But it’s not really the best way to take advantage of the two-screen concept.)
Apps like Chrome, Facebook, and Twitter take better advantage of the screen real estate, but those run into the same problem that Android tablets have always had: they just don’t optimize that well for larger tablet-sized displays. The other weird quirk is that, due to how Android measures the screen sizes, holding the device vertically (with the two screens side by side) will get you the “tablet” version of an app, albeit one that feels too short; rotating the display produces a taller version of the standard smartphone version.
For now, it still feels like ZTE is only giving the most basic options for what you could do with two screens. There are occasional glimmers of potential, like running YouTube in full-screen on one display while being able to browse or find a new video to watch next undisturbed on the bottom, but it still feels like there’s more that could be done. Why isn’t there an e-reader app, for example, that lets me put two pages of a book on the two screens, like, say, an actual book? Or a gaming function that offloads the virtual buttons on one screen with a digital controller?
Lastly, there’s “mirror mode,” which simply mirrors content onto both screens. ZTE envisions people using this to fold the phone into a tent-like position and watch videos together. I can’t say this was a use case that ever came up outside of just testing to see if it works, but it’s there if that’s something you want to do.
There are also software gestures that, in theory, allow you to quickly swipe to switch between modes, sending an app from one screen to another or extending it across both displays with quick gestures, but unfortunately they’re pretty hit-or-miss to use in practice. I spent a lot of time swiping futilely at the bottom of the display, before giving up entirely to just use the manual button.
I spent a few days using the Axon M as my main phone, and even with pretty heavy use of the two screens, the 3,180mAh battery didn’t have any problems making it to the end of the day with at least a 15 percent charge left. But while the screens don’t hurt battery life that dramatically, there are definitely parts of the ZTE Axon M that feel like the price you pay for having the second display.
For example, there’s only a single 20-megapixel camera on the Axon M. Hitting a button to switch between the front- and rear-facing camera on this phone actually flips the entire screen around to the other display. It’s a clever solution, but it’s awkward to use in practice, and would leave me in weird situations where I’d exit out of the camera app after taking a picture with the “rear” sensor, only to be faced with a black screen because the phone was now backwards. (The camera is mounted above the left, or primary display.) This also means that apps that use the camera (like Snapchat) work extremely poorly in the dual-screen modes, since they can only take awkwardly positioned selfies.
The placement of the hinge on the right side of the Axon M means that all the buttons are shifted to the left, including the power button, which flies in the face of years of ingrained logic from iPhones, Samsung Galaxy phones, Google Pixels, and almost every other major phone. On more than one occasion, I picked up the phone and thumbed the power button only to realize that I was holding it upside down, and that the “main” screen was on the other side.
A final weird hardware quirk was that the two panels on our review device seemed to be calibrated differently: one displayed warmer colors, and one was slightly cooler. It’s not a deal-breaker, but it was something noticeable, especially when running some apps extended across the two displays.
The Axon M isn’t the first attempt at a dual-screen Android phone. The benefit of time and more powerful hardware means that the Axon M can actually follow through on some of the promises, like running multiple apps and full-screen integration, that precursors like the Kyocera Echo simply weren’t able to do.
But if the Axon M is the first dual-screen phone that can actually execute the idea of a two-screened device, using it in practice has me doubting whether the idea actually has practical merit. It is cool, on a purely technical level, to be able to unfold your phone and run a giant version of Alto’s Adventure or two apps side by side. But between the hacked-together software execution and the overall lack of productive application for it, it’s hard to look at the Axon M as anything more than a fun gimmick. And with the hefty $725 price tag and a plethora of more powerful, better-designed, and cheaper Android flagships out there, it’s probably worth sticking to one screen for now.



The OnePlus 5T and Razer Phone are two fundamentally different devices, which are nonetheless united by one unfortunate downside: both of them are going on sale this month without the latest version of Android on board. OnePlus will tell you that this issue is down to its extremely stringent testing process, while Razer offers a similar boilerplate about working as fast as possible to deliver Android Oreo. But we’re now three months removed from Google’s grand Oreo launch, timed to coincide with this summer’s total eclipse, and all of these excuses are starting to ring hollow. Why do Android companies think they can ship new devices without the latest and best version of the operating system on board?
The notorious fragmentation problem with Android has always been that not every device gets the latest update at the same time, and many devices get stuck on older software without ever seeing an update at all. What’s changed now is that the “one version behind the newest and best” phenomenon is starting to infect brand new phones as well. The 5T and Razer Phone are just two examples; there’s also Xiaomi, which just launched its Mi Mix 2 in Spain with 2016’s Android Nougat as the operating system. This is leading to a fractured Android landscape, one where you might get Android Oreo if you buy the new and shiny HTC U11 Plus, or you might get Android Nougat if you buy the OnePlus 5T, which was officially announced less than 24 hours ago.
Many people won’t care to check or even know what operating system version their phone is running. But that’s really part of the problem. When I’m among laypeople, they speak of Android as one coherent whole: “I’d switch to Android, but does it do x and y better than the iPhone?” The mass market consumer rarely differentiates between Samsung-brand Android, OnePlus-brand Android, and all the others. And when a company like Google does a big event telling everyone that Android now has notification dots adorning app icons, faster boot times, better power efficiency, new priority groupings for notifications, and all the other under-the-hood improvements of Oreo, those very same people expect to be able to walk into a store, pick out an Android phone, and have those exact capabilities at their fingertips.
Instead, we have to return to the unhappy chart below, which shows the proportion of active Android devices on each version of the OS. For reference, Android KitKat (13.8 percent) was released in 2013, Lollipop (27.2 percent) came in 2014, Marshmallow (30.9 percent) followed in 2015, and Nougat (20.6 percent) was last year. Android Oreo stands at 0.3 percent as of November 9th. You don’t need to compare this to the proportion of iOS devices that are fully up to date with iOS 11 (52 percent at last count) to know that it’s not a happy picture.
For anyone enervated by seeing the latest iteration of the Android platform chart, all I can say is we’ll keep talking about it so long as it remains pertinent to the experience of buying and owning an Android device.
I have talked with most Android manufacturers over the past few weeks and I’m confident the update problem isn’t complacency. How could it be? Razer is launching its very first phone and trying to make the best possible impression, whereas OnePlus has the fresh memory of nearly going out of business in 2015 after some poor product decisions. The Android device market is too competitive for such a simple explanation.
A partial justification for the latest actions of these companies stems from the maturity of Android itself. The differences between Oreo and Nougat are less noticeable in day-to-day use than the differences between, say, Gingerbread and Ice Cream Sandwich. To some extent, you could make the argument that the majority of people in the market for a new phone wouldn’t feel the absence of the latest software anyway. (Much as, for instance, numerous companies now believe we can live without a headphone jack). And since OnePlus and Razer both have to get their devices into stores and available online during the holiday shopping season, their hands are somewhat tied. They have to release the best possible product they have at the optimal market timing.
Android companies aren’t willing to go on the record with this, but Qualcomm also plays a role in slowing down updates. Its Snapdragon processors invariably grace the biggest flagship devices, and the manufacturers are reliant on Qualcomm quickly supporting the latest OS update too. Not long ago, Qualcomm’s early termination of support for Snapdragon 800/801 chips left a lot of people disappointed. Those were flagship processors for premium devices, but the chipmaker’s decision left owners of such phones without the Android Nougat update that they’d expected or been hoping for.
Google is working hard to reduce the behind-the-scenes complexity that’s inherent in updating Android phones. The Project Treble initiative in Android Oreo is part of that, though for its effects to be felt, we’re going to have to wait a couple of years until Oreo becomes a more substantial proportion of the Android market than the rounding error it presently is. As things stand, Android remains a chaotic and frustrating place to be for anyone who just wants the latest and greatest.
When you buy a new phone, you should be safe in the knowledge that it’s better than all the preceding models. Recent times have rather eroded that expectation, as newer smartphones now lack headphone jacks, many are switching from aluminum to more fragile glass construction, and the Android software situation remains as unpredictable as it’s ever been. Apple’s iPhones are subject to some of the same critiques, but at least Apple gives you the reassurance of knowing you’ll get the next software update. And probably the one after that too. Android phones? You’d better check you’re being the served the freshest flavor before buying one.


LG’s OLED TVs are widely considered to be among the best-looking TV sets out there — if not the outright best. But the problem is, they’re all very, very expensive. At least, they usually are: next week, as part of an extended Black Friday sale, LG is dropping the price on nearly all of its 2017 OLED TVs.
These TVs won’t exactly be cheap, but they’ll be at their most affordable pricing ever and include some solid deals for anyone looking to get the best picture quality possible. Every one of the sets supports 4K and Dolby Vision HDR, and they all use the same OLED panel. The differences are largely in thickness, bezel, and their built-in sound system.
Pricing on the TVs starts as low as $1,499. Most of these TVs were already discounted to some extent, but there are still some steep cuts unique to this sale.
The discounts go live Sunday, November 19th and run through through Cyber Monday, on November 27th, so you’ve got a little time to do some research.
Here’s the list of deals:
LG OLED B7A series TV:
LG OLED C7 series TV:
LG OLED E7 series TV:
LG Signature OLED G7 series TV:
LG Signature OLED W7 series TV:
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.


Someday mirrors will be smart enough to lie to us, assuring us we’re the fairest of them all. Until then, there’s this thing from iHome.
The distortion-free mirror measures 10 inches by 13 inches, and features a built-in Bluetooth speaker to play music while getting ready, and a USB jack to keep your phone charged. The adjustable mirror includes a removable 3.5-inch mirror with 10x magnification and variable LED lighting around the frame to see as much (horrifying?) detail as you want.
There's also a built-in mic with echo-cancelling technology and support for Siri and Google Assistant. That way you can ask the mirror to do stuff while you're grooming. To do so, you push and hold a button on the device to activate the voice assistant through your phone. Saying “Hey Siri, call mom” would be pretty cool, leaving your hands free to draw on your winged eyeliner with the razor sharp precision of a surgeon.
You can even use it on the go thanks to a rechargeable battery. And a timer will switch off the light after 25 minutes if you forget.
The iCVBT10 mirror is available now from Amazon, Bed, Bath, and Beyond, and iHome for $199.99. But, if you prefer something that tells you how nice the day is going to be displayed on the mirror itself, we made our very own smart mirror that you can DIY at home.




Microsoft revealed earlier this week that it’s cutting the Xbox One S price to its lowest point of $189 for Black Friday, and now it’s discounting games to match. Xbox Live Gold members can get early access to the deals, with a range of games seeing discounts up to 65 percent.
New games like Call of Duty: WW2, Assassin’s Creed: Origins, and Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus are all on offer, alongside recent titles like Destiny 2 and Fifa 18. The discounts are ideal if you’ve just purchased a new Xbox One X, or if you’re planning to gift games to friends over the holidays. You can find the full list of deals over at Major Nelson’s site.


Last night, Tesla had a bit of a celebration for itself, unveiling its new Semi truck and (in a surprise) a second-generation Roadster. It was a typical Tesla event, full of twists, shocks, and plenty of smoke and mirrors. The soundtrack rocked, the starry-eyed fans lapped it up, and now you can watch the highlights in this supercut we made for you. You’re welcome.
The Semi was as foreboding and the Roadster was enticing. The fact that Musk paired the two together shows he hasn’t lost his flair as a showman, even with his company facing what’s probably its biggest challenge in its short existence.
Of course, the Model 3 loomed over it all. But it was easy to forget about all the snags and delays plaguing the production of Tesla’s first mass-market electric car, especially with Musk dropping phrases like “zero to 60 in 1.9 seconds” and “620-mile range.” These are just concept vehicles, really, but it’s Tesla, and nothing is really ever as it seems.



During Tesla’s semi truck event tonight, CEO Elon Musk had a surprise up his sleeve: a new version of the Tesla Roadster. And now we know how much it will cost. The base model will start at $200,000, with a $50,000 deposit required upfront. Interested parties can place their deposits today.
The first 1,000 models sold will be the Founder’s Series models which will cost you $250,000 upfront. Production isn’t slated to begin until 2020, but if Tesla can match its claimed specs for the Roadster, it should strike fear in the hearts of every supercar maker currently building cars. The only comparable cars to the Roadster are the hybrid supercars built by McLaren (P1), Ferrari (LaFerrari), and Porsche (918 Spyder), which all cost around $1 million. And the upcoming Aston Martin Valkyrie and the Mercedes-AMG Project One will each cost around $3 million for cars that may end up being slower.
If Tesla is building a faster, cheaper, and totally electric supercar for a fourth of the price? It’s going to be a sleepless few years for those carmakers.


Elon Musk promised a surprise during the Tesla semi unveiling event, and boy did he deliver: the return of the Roadster. But it’s no repeat performance. The stunning four-seater roadster boasts jaw-dropping numbers, that if they measure up to Musk’s claims, will make it the world’s quickest production car. In his remarks, Musk described it as a “smackdown” to the fossil fuel-addicted auto industry.
The finale to his semi truck reveal was all about driving home that point. As the opening guitar licks of the Beastie Boys’ “Sabotage” blasted over the loud speaker, a beam of red zipped across the parking lot. The second-generation Tesla Roadster came to an abrupt halt, and a grinning Elon Musk came back on the mic to introduce his latest baby, which will likely cause Porsche and Ferrari to break a sweat.
Musk claimed the base model will do 0 to 60 in 1.9 seconds. If true, that would make it the first production vehicle to crack the two-second threshold. He also said the new Roadster would climb from 0 to 100 mph in 4.2 seconds, and will clear the quarter mile in 8.9 seconds (in case the Fast & Furious drag race franchise comes calling).
“It’ll be faster than that jet over there,” Musk quipped, as an airplane soared over the exultant crowd crammed into Tesla’s Hawthorne, California facility.
Musk said he wouldn’t confirm the top speed, but hinted that it was “above 250 mph.” By comparison, the Agera RS by Sweden’s Koenigsegg currently holds the world record at 277.9 mph.
As fans gasped, Musk said the Roadster had a 200kWh battery pack and a 620-mile range per charge, or over 1,000 kilometers. Again, another record shattered — or so Musk claims. Imagine driving from Los Angeles to San Francisco and back, without recharging, Musk teased.
The vehicle has three motors (one in the front and two in the rear), all-wheel drive, and torque steering.
The design is clear strike against the sports car industry. There are possible cues from all the majors players, including a McLaren P1 cockpit, an Acura NSX exterior, Bugatti Chiron headlights, a Targa-like roof, and a rear reminiscent of an Aston Martin DB10.
“The point of doing this is to give a hardcore smackdown to gasoline cars,” Musk said. Driving any other turbo-charged sports car, is going to feel like a steam engine with a side of quiche.
But there is a wait: Musk said production isn’t scheduled to start until 2020, and production deadlines at Tesla have traditionally been optimistic. You can reserve one now for $50,000 towards the $200,000 base price – or get one of the first 1,000 Founders Series models with more performance and an asking price of $250,000 that has to be paid now.
While Model 3 customers wait, Tesla has dug in its heels and reminded its fans where the brand love all began: the 2008 Roadster. Musk has been teasing the return of Tesla’s first production car since 2011, when the vehicle ended its run. But the promised date of 2014 came and went, and instead, the electric automakers fans got the Model S, followed by the X and the 3. This evening’s semi truck unveiling was meant to signal the next stage in Musk’s “Master Plan.” As Musk has shown time and again he has learned the art of flipping the script by delivering heavy on delight.
Correction: A previous version of this story described the Tesla Roadster as the fastest production car ever made, instead of, if made, the quickest. We apologize for the error.


In true Tesla fashion, CEO Elon Musk held a lavish event in Hawthorne, California on Thursday evening to reveal not just one, but two varieties of the all-electric semi truck the company has been teasing for months. The vehicle, designed to take on the industrial trucking market by leveraging electric motors and self-driving capabilities, were shown off for the first time, featuring a fair amount of borrowed parts and design from the company’s Model 3 sedan on top of some new twists. Musk also detailed how Tesla plans to bring these vehicles to market. Check out all the news from the event here, as well our post-event reporting and analysis.


Just like we use pumice stones to scrape dead skin off cracked heels during pedicures, bowhead whales may be using boulders at the bottom of the ocean to exfoliate, new research says. Identifying these scratching stones could be key to keeping human activity from disturbing these massive creatures.
In the summer of 2014, a team of researchers spotted a handful of odd-looking bowhead whales in a bay off the northeastern coast of Canada. These Arctic marine mammals average 50 to 60 feet long, and are powerful enough to break through ice. But this group looked splotchy, with patches of light gray and loose skin decorating their dark gray backs. And they kept rolling on their sides and backs and lifting their flippers out of the water. Apparently, they were in the bay for a good scratching, according to a study published today in the journal PLOS ONE.
Sloughing off dead skin and hair and regrowing them anew is called molting. Most whales, dolphins, and porpoises molt year-round — kind of like we do. But Arctic species like belugas are thought to molt all at once when they visit warmer waters during the summer. Bowhead whales have similar skin to belugas, and have been spotted molting in Russia’s Okhotsk sea. Graduate student Sarah Fortune at the University of British Columbia didn’t know if this specific population of bowhead whales in eastern Canada were regular exfoliators, too.
So two years later, the researchers went back to the same spot — this time, with a DJI Phantom 3 Professional drone. The team flew the drone to snap aerial pictures and videos of 83 whales. (The water was clear enough for them to see what the whales were doing at the bottom of the shallow bay.)
Almost all of them had splotchy skin. Many spent their time alternating between resting or rubbing their chins, heads, backs, and sides against the boulders in the bay. One whale was caught spending what was probably a blissful eight minutes scraping itself against a boulder. “We saw very clearly that the whales were taking turns rubbing their bodies on these rocks,” Fortune says. The whales bumped up against each other, too.
Fortune hopes that her research will be the starting point for identifying other bays around the world where bowhead whales turn for a good scratch. That way people can steer clear of them and let the whales do what they need to. The exfoliation ritual, in fact, might be more important than it seems. The whales may need to shrug off skin infested by parasites like whale lice or gunked up by plankton that might make it harder to regulate their body temperatures. The whales might also be getting rid of sun-damaged skin that would otherwise accumulate over lives more than 200 years long.
Or, just maybe, they do it because scraping off peeling skin feels so good.
!!!@@@$$$

A few weeks ago, as it seemed more and more likely that FCC chairman Ajit Pai would successfully dismantle US net neutrality rules, California Congressional representative Ro Khanna tweeted an alarming-looking screenshot from Portuguese mobile carrier Meo. “In Portugal, with no net neutrality, internet providers are starting to split the net into packages,” he wrote.
Since October 26th, this message has been retweeted over 58,000 times, and liked over 46,000 times. As Techdirt pointed out, it looks remarkably similar to a satirical chart showing internet services split into cable-style bundles, a graphic that’s been used to drive home the importance of net neutrality for years. But it’s also seriously misleading — in a way that misses a more important and subtle point about net neutrality.
In Portugal, with no net neutrality, internet providers are starting to split the net into packages. pic.twitter.com/TlLYGezmv6
The plan Khanna tweeted is called “Smart Net,” and as he correctly notes, it offers monthly subscription packages with names like Messaging, Social, and Video. Each of the five categories includes several big-name apps, including Netflix, FaceTime, Spotify, and Google Drive.
But based on Meo’s website, this doesn’t look like buying cable channels for the internet. It’s an add-on to general-purpose mobile subscriptions, which let you access any service — including the ones above. The idea is apparently that if you’re into apps like Snapchat and Facebook (or... LinkedIn, I guess), you pay around $8 a month to specifically get more “Social” data, so you can use your regular allotment for everything else. It looks a lot like the “Vodafone Pass” service in the UK, where subscribers can pay for unlimited access to a similar stable of services.
Techdirt explains this nuance, as does Quartz. But Khanna’s original tweet — the pithy statement that’s getting passed around context-free on social media — doesn’t. It implies that Meo is blocking or limiting certain “packages” unless you pay for them, the way that you can’t watch HBO without the right cable plan. His office didn’t immediately respond to an email asking for clarification.
“Portugal doesn’t have net neutrality, so it ended up with a dystopian cable-style internet” is also a bad argument for other reasons. For one thing, Portugal is part of the EU, which published widely praised net neutrality rules last year. More importantly, Meo’s plan doesn’t sound radically different from what telecoms are doing elsewhere. It seems philosophically similar to zero-rating, where carriers offer “free” data for apps like Netflix. Meo actually offers straightforward zero-rating for its own storage and entertainment apps, which provides them an even greater potential advantage.
Zero-rating and subscription packages both theoretically encourage mobile subscribers to favor established apps and services over up-and-coming competitors. In fact, you could argue that zero-rating and similar “sponsored data” plans are more insidious, because subscriptions at least make users consider whether they want to pay more for a better experience on certain apps. With zero-rating, they can just slip into using whichever default services offer unlimited data.
And you don’t have to look at Portugal, or a Trumpian future, to see zero-rating in action. General EU regulations call to examine cases on an individual basis, rather than banning the practice altogether, and so do the United States’ current (strong) net neutrality rules. AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile all offer it in some fashion right now — including T-Mobile’s Binge On, which isn’t that far from a free version of Meo’s video channel.
I’m not saying that these app packages sound good. Besides the competition problems I outlined above, they open the door for carriers to limit generic data pools, pressuring subscribers to buy extra subscriptions. But I haven’t seen a convincing argument that they’re a unique consequence of Portugal flouting EU net neutrality rules, nor something that seems unfathomable under the existing American system. Journalist Julian Sanchez argued that a US carrier could legally use Meo’s entire model right now. The biggest roadblock to US carriers adopting them is probably more public opinion than the FCC.
If there’s a lesson here, it’s that net neutrality isn’t just about writing rules, but about making sure that agencies will meaningfully enforce the spirit of them. The FCC, for example, determined in January that AT&T and Verizon’s zero-rating plans did violate net neutrality rules, though T-Mobile’s didn’t. But the report came out less than two weeks before former chairman Tom Wheeler stepped down, and Pai’s FCC has been predictably uninterested in following up with consequences.
Splashy headlines about Portugal’s supposed net-neutrality-free hellscape turn a complex debate over an imperfect policy to a good-versus-evil battle over flipping a single legal switch. The Trump administration has made it tough to have nuanced conversations, and so has Pai, whose proposed “light touch” rules are generally awful and paradoxically restrictive. But it’s better to try than to get lost in alarmist half-truths.
!!!@@@$$$

Drone maker DJI has released a new version of its DJI Goggles for drone racers. They’re called the DJI Goggles RE, short for racing edition. The original DJI Goggles went up for presale this past April and, like those, the DJI Goggles RE look a bit like a VR headset and let you control a drone with just your head movements and see from the device’s point of view, so long as the goggles are in head-tracking gimbal mode. While the original goggles are white, these come in matte black with red leather on the headband.
These new goggles are also compatible with non-DJI branded drones and third-party flight controllers like the F3 and Naze. The DJI Goggles RE support Sphere panoramic viewing and video streaming with the OcuSync Video Transmission Module, which has 12 transmission channels designed to reduce interference during a race, when multiple drones are likely flying by one another.
To that end, there’s an automatic frequency-hopping spread spectrum transmission, which jumps to the 2.4 and 5.8 GHz channels, depending on which has the least noise. The transmission module can reach latencies as low as 50ms. The transmission resolution is decent at 1280 x 960 and it has a maximum control range of 4.3 miles.
You’ll also have the option of connecting two pairs of the goggles together so another person could watch and control a drone alongside you. DJI’s new model starts shipping at the end of this month for $549, just missing Black Friday weekend. But there does happen to be a bundle with the OcuSync Air System and DJI Goggles Backpack that goes for $859.

!!!@@@$$$

Superheroes are a huge part of the 21st century pop culture landscape, but the characters spotlighted in TV and film generally weren’t actually created in the 21st century. Virtually every major DC and Marvel superhero project has been built around characters or teams created before the new millennium. They’re mostly older, well-known properties, which encourages showrunners and filmmakers to stick to old formulas and familiar character points. The resulting products can look fairly homogenized. Netflix’s Marvel series and The CW’s DC lineup have their individual charms, but they don’t deviate much in tone or structure.
But the exceptions have been memorable. When Jessica Jones debuted in the pages of Marvel Comics’ Alias in 2001, she wasn’t much of a hero at all. While she had superpowers, she’d given up a costumed life to be a hard-drinking, self-destructive private investigator. The superhero-tinged crime noir of her comic didn’t need many changes to translate into aTV show, and her distance from the usual superhero conventions makes Jessica Jones a standout of Netflix and Marvel’s partnership. With Hulu’s Runaways, another property created after 2000, Marvel Television makes a similarly smooth transition to the screen. The comic’s guiding principles are at play in the TV adaptation by The O.C. and Gossip Girl’s Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage.
The Runaways never reached Avengers or X-Men status in the comics. They aren’t a big-name superhero team, but they have developed a passionate fanbase. Many of those fans came from digest-sized collections, which made the comic easily available in bookstores and libraries. It helped that the series downplayed superhero elements in favor of YA storytelling. Creator Brian K. Vaughan set the comic in a superhero universe, but made his characters feel like ordinary people. They had no preexisting connections to other Marvel heroes, and they were physically distanced from the main action of the Marvel Universe by living in Los Angeles.
Runaways is the most autonomous project in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The first four chapters of the 13-episode first season don’t reference events in the Marvel movies, and unlike Netflix’s Marvel shows (Daredevil, The Punisher, The Defenders, and so forth), it’s not part of a larger project that’s planned around eventually forcing these characters into a crossover miniseries. This autonomy is the most important aspect of Runaways’ first story arc, which became the foundation of the TV series. In a superhero comic industry that prioritizes established IP over original concepts, Vaughan and artist Adrian Alphona created a brand new group of characters in their own corner of the Marvel Universe.
In the tradition of Marvel icons like Spider-Man and the X-Men, Runaways uses the superhero genre to explore the trials and thrills of adolescence. It puts a fantasy spin on a common teenage feeling: teenagers generally think their parents are awful, but what if they’re actually evil? The concept’s simplicity is part of its brilliance. In the pilot, a group of teenagers runs away after seeing their parents murder a young woman in a mysterious ceremony. As the kids investigate, they discover extraordinary abilities and acquire cool gadgets, mystical objects, and a pet dinosaur with a nose ring.
Vaughan made the jump to television (writing for Lost, executive producing the Stephen King adaptation Under The Dome) after building a strong reputation in comics, and his understanding of both comics and television make him a valuable resource for Hulu’s Runaways. Credited as an executive consultant, Vaughan worked directly with the show’s creators, helping them make decisions that enrich his original story without compromising its vision or spirit. The show makes some necessary changes so it can sustain a series, primarily by giving the parents much more time in the spotlight. By fleshing out the individual family dynamics, the series deepens the central conflict.
Runaways was originally in development as a film that would have been an earlier entry in the MCU. Developing this superhero world over the course of years let Marvel Studios and Marvel Television give the Runaways TV show a deeper connection to other properties, not through explicit story ties, but through genre influences. Narratively, Runaways stands apart from other Marvel films and series, but it still benefits from the framework established by those projects.
The Guardians Of The Galaxy films expanded the MCU’s cosmic landscape, opening the door for Runaways’ alien characters. The crime elements of Marvel’s Netflix shows make their way into the narrative courtesy of Geoffrey Wilder (Ryan Sands), a former gangster turned real-estate mogul. The experimental medicine and technology responsible for characters like Captain America, Hulk, and Iron Man are intrinsic to genius inventor Victor Stein (James Marsters) and geneticists Dale and Stacey Yorkes (Kevin Weisman and Brigid Brannagh), who have a dinosaur hidden in their house. Doctor Strange introduced the magical side of the MCU, and while Runaways is forced to present sorcery as advanced science because of Marvel Television’s “no magic” rule, the existence of genuine magic in the MCU informs scenes like Nico (Lyrica Okano) trying to commune with her dead sister’s spirit.
Marvel Comics stories tend to be set around New York City, and setting Runaways in Los Angeles gave the comic a breezier vibe. The show goes even further into the L.A. environment, making one of the parents the head of a Scientology-like church that preaches a message of light and self-love, but also kills teenagers it pulls off the streets. The setting also gives Runaways’ costume and set design a chance to depart from the Marvel norm. Runaways’ characters didn’t wear superhero costumes in the comic; they had wardrobes tailored to their personalities, and their clothes changed over time. The specificity of Alphona’s fashion design gives the TV show’s costume designers, Meredith Markworth-Pollack and Samantha Rattner, a strong foundation for the characters’ on-screen looks.
That unconventional approach to character design visually distinguished Runaways from other superhero comics. The teenagers’ styles from the comic’s initial 2003 run might feel dated now, so the designers pulled inspiration from more teen archetypes, like having the goth Nico (Lyrica Okano) lean into a Lorde-witch aesthetic rather than her Gothic Lolita fashion from the comics. Gertrude (Ariela Barer) wears a jacket emblazoned with “DO NOT DISTURB ME” on the back,accentuating her antagonistic attitude. And putting a pussy hat on her adopted sister, Molly (Allegra Acosta), is a clever way of reinterpreting her cute animal hats from the comics, while connecting her to Gertrude’s feminist point of view.
Brett Morgen is a surprising choice of director for the Runaways pilot, given that his film and TV experience has been exclusively documentaries (The Kids Stay In The Picture, Kurt Cobain: Montage Of Heck, this year’s Jane), but his involvement shows how dedicated the series is to the comics’ grounded point of view. Morgen’s documentarian eye for detail is especially valuable for creating a strong sense of place for the teenagers’ homes —especially their individual bedrooms. Nico’s room is decorated with black furniture, sketches of monsters, and creepy figurines. Church girl Karolina (Virginia Gardener) is surrounded by pink and elegant, clean decor, situating her as a paragon of princess-like femininity. Morgen sets the visual template with the pilot, and future directors follow his lead by providing multiple establishing shots of each location and framing shots to spotlight various environmental details, working with the design team to make these spaces distinct and reflective of the people who live in them.
These individual rooms also help establish the characters’ privileged lifestyle, which turns out to be built on murder and lies. Isolated on the West Coast, these kids don’t have any superheroes to rescue them from their supervillain parents. The Runaways formula requires this isolation, allowing the characters to establish themselves as unique inhabitants of an underexplored area of this superhero universe. It’s why this show is such a refreshing take on the genre. The key to unlocking the deeper potential of superhero media lies in finding new perspectives on the genre, now that other properties have laid the groundwork. The themes of superhero stories can be applied to more than standard costumed showdowns for the fate of the world. And Runaways’ success at trying something new — both in the comics, and on the screen — suggests studios can draw a lot of new energy from current creations, instead of sticking to legacy characters that have been around for decades.
!!!@@@$$$

After a Verge story detailed glaring examples of predatory comments on videos of children, YouTube announced today that it will turn off comments entirely on videos where it detects predatory behavior.
Last week, The Verge reported on the scope of the problem: videos of young children doing activities like gymnastics were being targeted by commenters making sexual comments, or inviting the children to talk. At the time, YouTube removed several of the videos provided by The Verge, some of which had hundreds of thousands or more views.
The company said in its statement today that, although those comments have never been permissible, it was taking new steps to make sure they don’t appear on its platform. “Comments of this nature are abhorrent and we work with NCMEC to report illegal behavior to law enforcement,” the company wrote in a blog post. “Starting this week we will begin taking an even more aggressive stance by turning off all comments on videos of minors where we see these types of comments.”
YouTube also announced several other changes it was making in response to recent criticism over how kids create and view content. The company said it was using technology to flag problematic videos more quickly, and would remove ads from “inappropriate” videos targeting families. YouTube said it will also provide new guidelines on its YouTube Kids content and will engage more experts for help.
YouTube has faced difficult questions about content targeted toward children in recent weeks, largely after a viral Medium post exposed bizarre videos targeting child viewers. “These latest enforcement changes will take shape over the weeks and months ahead as we work to tackle this evolving challenge,” the company said.



!!!@@@$$$

Thanksgiving is upon us, and for a lot of people, that means that we have an extended break from work to enjoy family and friends. It’s also a great time to finally get around to one of those shows that you’ve been meaning to binge-watch. There’s a glut of really fantastic shows out there. Here are our recommendations for something to stream while you’re sitting on the couch in a turkey-induced stupor.
Frank Castle, aka The Punisher, is out for revenge after the events of Daredevil. From the start of the season, Castle is a recluse, carrying massive emotional baggage from his time in Afghanistan. Drawn out of his shell by a string of compelling characters played by Amber Rose Revah, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, and others, Castle gradually grows more likable to the audience just as the story picks up speed, diving into police conspiracy and shootouts. It’s a violent and explicit series about US veterans and enraged single white men released at a time when America has been wracked by mass shootings in Las Vegas and Texas, meaning that it’s rife with material to discuss after the credits roll. —Shannon Liao
Best seen with: It’s a two-fer: you can watch it with your fellow Destiny 2 guardians and enjoy the gore, or discuss the underlying issues with your more politically minded family members.
Shows about serial killers are nothing new, but this series pulls off a neat trick by focusing on the people that figured out how to hunt them down in the first place. Based on John E. Douglas and Mark Olshaker’s book Mindhunter: Inside the FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit, the show follows a pair of mismatched FBI agents (Jonathan Groff and Holt McCallany) and a psychology professor (Anna Torv) who begin interviewing serial killers in the 1970s in order to understand why they do the things that they do. With David Fincher executive producing (and directing the pilot), Mindhunter is filled with the kind of unrelenting tension the filmmaker excels at, and infamous serial killers like Richard Speck and Edmund Kemper even pop up as characters. Be sure to stay for the final scene of the season, which plays like a lead-in to the most insidious expanded universe in the history of entertainment. —Bryan Bishop
Best seen with: Ask your friends and family if they liked Seven, Zodiac, True Detective, or The Silence of the Lambs. If they say yes, you’re good to go.
Channel Zero is an anthology series with self-contained seasons that are based on "creepypasta," the internet's equivalent of spooky campfire tales. It made a decent debut in 2016, but really hit its stride with this fall's six-episode "No-End House," where four young adults enter a haunted house and come out in a mirror world that preys on their dreams and fears. Beyond some effective grotesquerie and familiar horror tropes, you’ll get a compelling story about protagonist Margot (The Path's Amy Forsyth), who finds a way to reconnect with her dead father (American Horror Story's John Carroll Lynch) through the house. At its best, it's a surprisingly complex tragedy about the bonds of family and friendship... just a deeply, deeply creepy one. —Adi Robertson
Best seen with: Anyone interested in a more focused and less edgy version of American Horror Story, or a longer and more character-driven take on The Twilight Zone.
The third entry in Syfy’s Stargate franchise, Universe is a much darker, more somber show than its predecessors Stargate SG-1 and Stargate: Atlantis. In it, a space expedition is unexpectedly stranded billions of miles from home on an ancient starship called Destiny. The show is less episodic, and more story-driven than the shows that preceded it, focusing on the more gritty, realistic characters as they work to survive as they try and find their way home. —Andrew Liptak
Best seen with: Anyone who’s enjoyed the latest season of Star Trek: Discovery, Battlestar Galactica, or The Expanse.
With Thor: Ragnarok in theaters, millions of mainstream moviegoers who have never heard of writer-director Taika Waititi are becoming familiar with his improv comedy style. This is a great time to catch up on his past projects, which lack the superhero throwdowns and ’splosions, but have the same sort of goofy, amiable, self-effacing humor. The funniest of the pack is Hunt for the Wilderpeople, a wild family adventure about a teenager and his adoptive uncle taking off into the wilds. That one’s rentable on a variety of streaming services. Netflix has Eagle vs. Shark, Waititi’s ridiculously dry rom-com starring his longtime comedy partner Jemaine Clement. And Amazon Prime has his improvised dark vampire comedy What We Do In the Shadows and his funny family drama Boy, about an 11-year-old meeting his absentee criminal father.
Best seen with: Family members with a sense of humor, though you might want to fine-tune that — Hunt for the Wilderpeople is all-ages family fun, while What We Do In The Shadows is more for you and the cool younger cousins who like gross-out humor. —Tasha Robinson
This suspense-driven TV mini-series on Amazon will give you a taste of international intrigue while you cuddle up with blankets in your home. Tom Hiddleston plays the night manager at a hotel in Cairo who anticipates the needs of his guests, but not the secret documents that draw him into a web of espionage. As a British soldier turned luxury hotel employee, Hiddleston possesses all the charm of Loki, who he plays in the Thor franchise, but less of the mischief. In six too-short episodes, this spy drama enlightens and entertains. —Shannon Liao
Best seen with: Adults who will appreciate the jet-setting and spy thrills.
Created by Eugene Levy (Best in Show, Waiting for Guffman) and his son Dan, Schitt's Creek is about a wealthy family of four who find themselves living in a crappy motel in a nowhere town when all their belongings are unexpectedly repossessed by the IRS. This half-hour series, which also airs on Canadian TV, feels like a secret that I want to tell everyone about: it's deeply funny, strange, and just heartwarming enough to keep your head in the game during the holidays. The characters, including an overwrought Catherine O'Hara, manage to be annoying and likable at the same time — maybe like your own family? —Lizzie Plaugic
Watch it with: Your siblings, who will roll their eyes at first, and then get angry if you binge it without them.
It doesn't matter if you don't know what choux pastry or proofing is, watching The Great British Baking Show feels like wrapping your entire body in a warm loaf of freshly baked something or other. At least, it does until the end of each episode when someone gets eliminated and you're suddenly crying for reasons you can't quite explain. Another reason to cry: last year, three of the hosts quit after it was announced that the show would leave the BBC for the UK's Channel 4. The newest iteration of the series premiered this September to mixed reviews, but four seasons of the BBC version are on Netflix right now. That should last you to the pie course, at least. —Lizzie Plaugic
Watch with: Your cousin who says her pumpkin pie is better than yours.
On a surface level, Halt and Catch Fire is about the rise of computers in the late ‘80s, and the lives of a few fictionalized people who built them. The show’s main trio — a slick salesman, a downtrodden engineer, and a quirky but brilliant programmer — initially read like stock characters in a college play. But their struggles to understand one another, and their individual failures as humans, soon make this drama a compelling, relatable watch. The show just wrapped its fourth and final season in October, but the first three seasons are streaming now on Netflix. —Megan Farokhmanesh
Watch with: Your family members who have nostalgia for the days of modems, and / or constantly ask you for tech support.
Long before Baby Driver, Hot Fuzz, J.J. Abrams’ Star Trek, or even Shaun of the Dead, actor Simon Pegg and director Edgar Wright worked together on a UK sitcom called Spaced. The premise sounds pretty well-worn by now: Pegg plays an aspiring comic artist who is so desperate for a new apartment that he pretends to be in a relationship with a total stranger (Jessica Stevenson) so the pair can land a new place as flatmates. Hijinks and romance ensue, along with an avalanche of pop culture references. Pegg and Stevenson created the show together, with Wright directing both seasons, and it’s combination of whimsy and effervescent filmmaking still make it a joy to watch, even if it does feels slightly dated at times. —Bryan Bishop
Watch with: Fans of the Three Flavours Cornetto trilogy and anyone who pines for the days before fan culture had been weaponized to fill every moment of our waking lives.

!!!@@@$$$

Apple’s Thanksgiving ad this year teaches us that if we all wear AirPods, we can transport ourselves into a Stranger Things-esque world — minus the monsters and the grime — filled with ballet and sexy lighting. Then, by pirouetting through the streets and picking lint off strangers’ jackets, we, too, can find love. (That is, until the Sam Smith song ends.)
The music video ad is a weird, almost literal interpretation of Sam Smith’s “Palace,” except instead of the woman’s head being filled with ruins, it’s filled with romantic spotlights and plenty of wild gymnastics.
While it doesn’t encourage me to give Apple $159 for a pair of electric toothbrush head-like ear accessories I would definitely lose in the snow if I were to attempt to dance like that, the video might make others fall under the spell of the spending-crazed holiday magic:
!!!@@@$$$

Lee Unkrich has an obvious, visible presence at Pixar Animation Studios, as a co-director on Toy Story 2, Monsters Inc., and Finding Nemo, and the solo director of Toy Story 3. But like so many of Pixar’s senior creative crew, he’s had a less-obvious hand in the company’s projects from the earliest days, with credits reaching back to his editing on Toy Story and A Bug’s Life, and scattered work on other Pixar films ranging from supporting vocal work to supplemental story material. In other words, he’s one of the “brain trust,” the long-standing team that’s helped shape the studio’s voice and philosophy from the beginning, from informal feedback to the formal development workshops that made Pixar a standout in the animation field.
Unkrich is back in the director’s chair for Pixar’s latest project Coco, an emotionally powerful family adventure about a boy named Miguel (Anthony Gonzalez) who crosses over into the Land of the Dead and seeks out his idol, the singer Ernesto de la Cruz. The film is fundamentally built around Mexican language, music, and culture, especially the Día de los Muertos traditions of honoring the dead. I recently spoke with Unkrich about his directorial partnership with a young Mexican-American writer and animator at Pixar, the false story starts Pixar went through on Coco, and why Pixar makes specialized prints of its movies for different audiences.
I was just reading an interview with you from 2010 where you talk about how much anxiety and agony you suffered over making Toy Story 3. You called it “fear-based filmmaking,” because you worked so hard out of fear of letting people down. Did you go through anything similar here?
I did, but in a different way. In that case, I was petrified of going down in film history as the guy who directed the bad sequel to the two beloved Toy Story films. That was a lot of what drove me on that film. In this case, I did have a lot of anxiety when we were making this film about the fact that we were taking on a real culture in the world, and the fact that I’m not Mexican or Latino myself. I felt an enormous responsibility on my shoulders to do it right, to do everything I could to set us up for success, to surround ourselves with experts, to immerse ourselves in Mexican culture as much as we could.
And so yeah, I did have anxiety because of that, and just because this was a tough story to crack. There were a lot of times while we were making this that the story just wasn’t quite coming together. And I had the normal anxiety I think we all have at Pixar, that we’re not going to be able to crack the problem and make the movie work. But having gone through it on Toy Story 3, and having successfully gotten to the other side, I had a little bit of a better perspective this time. I knew the film would get done one way or the other. I just hoped it would be as good as it could be.
Pixar films go through long development processes at the story stage. I’ve read that this one started as the story of an American kid discovering his Mexican heritage. What other story stages did you go through? What did you discard along the way?
That was really the biggest change we made, changing from that early story. It was less about a kid discovering his Mexican heritage. The primary thrust was a kid who had lost his mother, and it was very much about him learning to let go of her and moving on with his life. And we realized after developing that for a while that we were telling a story that was really thematically antithetical to what Día de los Muertos is all about. Día de los Muertos is about never letting go. It’s about this obligation that we have to hold onto the memories of our ancestors, and not let their memories die. And when I realized that, I knew we really needed to start over and tell a different story than we were telling. And at that point, we had already done a lot of research, and spent a lot of time in Mexico, and I was for the first time comfortable telling a story from a Mexican perspective, about a kid in Mexico, in a Mexican family. Our first stab at the story reflected the fact that none of us at the time were from Mexico, so it made sense to tell it from an outside perspective, because I knew we were going to have to teach the audience about the traditions, and about Mexico, and that seemed like a logical way to do it initially.
You brought in cultural consultants, and you mentioned your extensive Mexican travel. What did you learn among all of this that was most surprising to you that you most wanted to put in this story?
The biggest thing we didn’t know that came out of the research was from someone who was advising us, an expert on Dia de los Muertos. We learned for the first time about this notion that we all can potentially die three deaths. The first one being when our heart stops, and we’re no longer living. The second being when we’re buried or cremated, and nobody can see us anymore. And we all have the potential to die this third and final death when there’s nobody left among the living who remembers us, who knew us. That seemed like such a powerful, poignant idea, and we knew we needed it to be part of the film somehow. Initially, it was more of a side idea. But ultimately, in the course of story development, we realized it really was core, a central idea that needed to be what the film was ultimately all about. And over time, we gradually wove that idea into the bedrock foundation of our story.
What was your directorial partnership with Adrian Molina like? What was your work process together?
Adrian and I worked with Darla on Toy Story 3. Initially, he was a storyboard artist. He came to us from CalArts. He had an internship at Pixar, and I think he was only 21 when he started working on Toy Story 3. He quickly became a really valuable member of our story team, bringing a lot of great humor and great ideas to the film. We encourage our story artists to give notes and thoughts from time to time, and I always found his notes particularly insightful and thorough and well-considered. And then he went off and worked on other films — Monsters University and The Good Dinosaur. In both cases, he contributed a lot to those stories.
And then when we were making Coco, Adrian really wanted to be a part of it, and we were happy to have him, because I love working with him. He really served just as a story artist for the first few years, but he continued to submit great notes and great thoughts, and more and more, he became part of our core group that was really banging on the story. And at one point in the development, we really hit some roadblocks. We were having a hard time, really stuck in the mud. Adrian started writing actual screenplay pages on his own, and he sheepishly gave them to me and said, “I know you don’t have to read these, but I needed to get this out of my system and give it a try.” And they were really fantastic. They were as good as any pages that I read from any established writer.
So we took a leap of faith and asked Adrian to take over duties as a screenwriter and he did that until the end. He did a fantastic job. And I started to rely on him more and more in my day-to-day work on the film. So at a certain point, we asked him to step up and be the co-director of the film. We’d been so like-minded, and it’s always great to have a trusted person to turn to, especially when you’re really having a hard time figuring the movie out. He provided that for me. And it was a fringe benefit that he’s Mexican-American himself, and so he was able to tap into his own family history, his family stories. Ultimately, working on this film was very personal for him, and he was very passionate about making the best film it could be. And then, finally, the other reason I wanted him to direct is that he’s a rising talent in the studio. This was a great opportunity for him to be mentored by me, and see the entire process of what it takes to make a film of this magnitude.
Do you remember what the sticking point in the film was, and what his fix for it was?
It had to do with the mechanics of what Miguel was trying to do with the Land of the Dead, and what he needed to do to get back out. We tried a lot of different ideas, and all of them felt kind of surface and plot-driven. What Adrian brought was the idea that Miguel needed his family’s blessing to return home. That came from something very personal in his own life. When he headed off to college, his mother and father had him kneel down, and they actually gave him their blessing to go off into life and do what he wanted to do, and that he would always have their blessing. It was very meaningful to him in an unexpected way. They had never done anything like that before. And so the thought occurred to him to introduce this idea, and it ended up being really central and thematically on-point. It really helped solve some problems we’d been having.
Your interviews about the earliest Pixar films focused on the technological developments of figuring out how to do fur and faces and water, learning something new with each movie. That doesn’t come up as much with Pixar anymore, because the animation has become so sophisticated. Does the studio still focus its environment around technological innovation?
It’s always important to us to continue to innovate, and to do things we haven’t done before, but that’s never what’s driving why we do it. We don’t come up with stories that allow us to innovate. We come up with story ideas, and then the innovation becomes necessary to tell that story. Everyone at Pixar is wired to know that no matter what the movie looks like, ultimately it doesn’t matter if the story’s not good. That has remained the same for the 25 years or so I’ve been in the studio. Everything is driven by story. Everything serves the story.
Were there challenges here where you needed to innovate to tell the story you wanted to tell?
It was mostly that I had a vision of what I wanted the Land of the Dead to look like, and it took a lot of work to realize that on-screen. It took a lot of really smart people to figure out how to do it. There were many things we hadn’t done before. We’d never done skeletons, so a lot of work went into designing skeletons that were appealing, and not frightening. And the scope of this movie was really enormous, so there was a lot of under-the-hood innovation that needed to happen for us to be able to realize the visual density. We had an extensive amount of geometry that we were trying to put up on screen. There are some shots with 6 million light sources. Those kinds of images can bring computers, even today’s really fast computers, to their knees. And that can put you in a situation where it would take so long to render images that you’d never be able to finish the movie. So we’ve got some really smart folks on our team that figure out really innovative ways of optimizing, so you can get that density in the imagery, but as far as the computer knows, the geometry is much simpler. And so it’s renderable, and you can have your cake and eat it, too. That’s my dumb, non-computer-scientist way of describing it. There are scenes at the end where we have thousands and thousands of animated skeletons. And I honestly don’t even know how [the programmers] did what they did. I just told them what I wanted, and they figured out how to do it.
The language in this movie is such a mix of Spanish and English. I don’t speak Spanish, but I still caught a few language jokes, like Miguel entering a music contest as “little de la Cruz,” naming himself after his idol. How did you decide how to handle the language? And are there jokes in there that only Spanish speakers are going to get?
We always wanted to have Spanish be a part of it, because the film takes place in Mexico, and in reality, all these characters would be speaking Spanish. So we made some choices, like both in Santa Cecilia and the Land of the Dead, I wanted all the signage to be in Spanish, unless we needed to have English for a story point. The English signs get translated into different languages around the world, but it’s primarily Spanish. And then in the language itself, we really tried to incorporate Spanish wherever we could, either simple words everybody knows, like “gracias” or “hola,” or in other cases, making sure that the way it was performed, or the inflection made it make sense. Like when Abuelita calls Miguel “mijo,” maybe that’s not a word all people know, but the way she’s saying it and rubbing his cheek, you understand what she’s saying. There are some great turns of phrase that I think an English-speaking audience won’t find particularly amusing, but we get big laughs from Spanish speakers. Like there’s a moment where Hector makes a big claim about knowing de la Cruz, and says he used to play music with him, and Miguel says, “No manches!” We get just from his attitude that he’s kind of saying, “Get out of here!” That’s a turn of phrase that’s very colloquial in the Spanish-speaking population, and we know from screening the film as often as we have that when we do have Spanish-speaking people in the audience, they really laugh at that. It’s such an inside-joke phrase to be using. We did our homework and went the extra mile to try to move beyond stereotypes or clichés, and try to do something real.
When you say the English signs will be translated into different languages, do you actually render different versions of the film for different countries?
We do! We don’t re-render the whole film, but we render different versions of those shots. In some cases, we’ll translate into many different languages. I think we translate our movies into something like 52 different languages. So we will do localized versions of a lot of shots. Sometimes we’ll just do one single alternate international version of a shot, that kind of suffices for a world audience. For instance, at the very end of this film, the camera cranes up to a sign that says “The End” in the English version. For the international version, rather then translating “The End” into 52 languages, we created one sign that says “Coco.” It just kind of depends on the complexity of doing a sign in another language. If it’s pretty straightforward text, we’ll do it in many different languages. But if it’s more complicated, say, because the text is part of a three-dimensional sign that would involve a lot of modeling, we’ll often come up with a universal version that works all around the world, that involves symbols rather than letters. Another example: when Miguel first gets to de la Cruz’s tower in the English version, there’s a sign that says “Seize your moment” in brass letters over the tram. The international version just has musical notes on a staff in brass over the door, so it didn’t rely on language at all.
Music is an important part of this movie, with some big story beats where the content of the songs matter as much as the performances. How did you go about developing the songs to integrate with the story?
Well, the first song we created was “Remember Me,” and that was purely driven by when we were first developing the storyline, I knew I wanted a song that could have different meanings and feelings, depending on how it was arranged and was sung. We envisioned a song we would first hear as a big, splashy showstopper, but could later hear as a lullaby. That’s what we approached Bobby Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez with. And they came back to us with these two versions of “Remember Me.” Some of the other songs in the movie, since Adrian was writing the screenplay at that point, I asked him to take a crack at writing lyrics. Initially, it was really to save a step of finding outside songwriters to work on it. I knew Adrian was such a good writer, and a budding musician, so I asked him to take a crack at lyrics in line with what we were trying to communicate story-wise. He did, and then we collaborated with Germaine Franco, a Mexican-American composer we’ve been working with. We first brought her on to create an arrangement of “Remember Me” as a demo, and the mariachi version of the Disney logo music at the beginning of the movie. We loved working with her, and we asked her to take a crack at writing music for the songs Adrian had written lyrics for. It ended up being a really good partnership. They loved working together, and that yielded another four songs in the movie.
!!!@@@$$$

All the major smartphones of 2017 are out in the world, but it’s never to early to start thinking about next year’s flagships. Samsung is reportedly starting earlier than ever, with the company reportedly previewing the S9 and S9+ at CES in January, according to Evan Blass at VentureBeat.
The S9 and S9+ are said to be more iterative updates on the existing S8 and S8+ than the radical redesign Samsung offered this year. According to Blass, the new phones should see upgraded processors — likely Qualcomm’s forthcoming Snapdragon 845 — for an extra speed boost, but the biggest change is said to be Samsung moving the fingerprint sensor back below the camera, instead of the problematic location next to the lens that Samsung has placed it on the S8, S8+, and Note 8. Both phones should also see the addition of AKG stereo speakers. And don’t worry, the headphone jack is reportedly sticking around for another year.
According to Blass, the S9+ is also getting a few upgrades over the smaller S9, with the larger device reportedly getting 6GB of RAM (instead of the 4GB found in the S9), and a second rear camera similar to the Note 8.
Finally, Samsung is also rumored to be releasing a new version of its DeX dock that places the phone flat, allowing it to be used as a virtual keyboard or touchpad. (It’s also said to be backwards compatible with older Samsung devices.)
It’s still not clear how much of this will be previewed at CES versus Samsung’s traditional March launch event, which is also reportedly taking place. But with the annual tech show looming in the distance, it won’t be too long of a wait.
!!!@@@$$$

FCC Chairman Ajit Pai released his proposal to kill net neutrality today, and while there’s a lot to be unhappy with, it’s hard not to be taken with the brazenness of his argument.
Pai thinks it was a mistake for the FCC to try and stop Comcast from blocking BitTorrent in 2008, thinks all of the regulatory actions the FCC took after that to give itself the authority to prevent blocking were wrong, and wants to go back to the legal framework that allowed Comcast to block BitTorrent. Seriously, it’s all right at the top (it’s long, but read my emphasis in bold):
14. In the 2008 Comcast-BitTorrent Order, the Commission sought to directly enforce federal Internet policy that it drew from various statutory provisions consistent with the Internet Policy Statement, finding certain actions by Comcast “contravene[d] . . . federal policy” by “significantly imped[ing] consumers’ ability to access the content and use the applications of their choice.” In 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit rejected the Commission’s action, holding that the Commission had not justified its action as a valid exercise of ancillary authority.
[Bullets 15, 16, and 17 are the history of the FCC first trying to pass rules under Title I, Verizon winning a lawsuit in which the court said the rules would have to be under Title II, and then passing the rules under Title II.]
18. In May 2017, we adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Internet Freedom NPRM), in which we proposed to return to the successful light-touch bipartisan framework that promoted a free and open Internet and, for almost twenty years, saw it flourish. Specifically, the Internet Freedom NPRM proposed to reinstate the information service classification of broadband Internet access service. The Internet Freedom NPRM also proposed to reinstate the determination that mobile broadband Internet access service is not a commercial mobile service. To determine how to best honor the Commission’s commitment to restoring the free and open Internet, the Internet Freedom NPRM also proposed to reevaluate the Commission’s existing rules and enforcement regime to analyze whether ex ante regulatory intervention in the market is necessary. Specifically, the Internet Freedom NPRM proposed to eliminate the Internet conduct standard and the non-exhaustive list of factors intended to guide application of that rule. It also sought comment on whether to keep, modify, or eliminate the bright-line conduct and transparency rules.
There are pages and pages of legal argument after this, all of which people will argue about endlessly in the weeks ahead of Pai’s planned December vote, but really, it’s all right there. The FCC couldn’t stop Comcast from blocking BitTorrent in 2008, it changed the rules so it would have that power, and Pai wants to undo that change and give Comcast the power to block internet services like BitTorrent once again. Later, Pai says Comcast blocking BitTorrent could have been challenged under antitrust and consumer protection laws on a case-by-case basis, but fails to say who, exactly, would bring that suit against Comcast and bear the costs. The FTC? Groups of BitTorrent users? And case-by-case rulings mean the precedents don’t have much weight. We had a rule, but Pai is saying we should have more lawsuits instead.
Later in the proposal, Pai says his rules will “significantly reduce the likelihood” ISPs like Comcast will engage in behaviors that harm consumers. Not prevent, mind you, but reduce the chances. Such trust in market forces to work in a broadband market where 51 percent of Americans only have one choice of broadband provider! And if there is harmful behavior? Well, it won’t be so bad because at least we didn’t impose regulatory costs on Comcast and Verizon. Seriously, that’s what it says (emphasis, again, is mine):
Further, the transparency rule we adopt today will require ISPs to clearly disclose such practices and this, coupled with existing consumer protection and antitrust laws, will significantly reduce the likelihood that ISPs will engage in actions that would harm consumers or competition. To the extent that our approach relying on transparency requirements, consumer protection laws, and antitrust laws does not address all concerns, we find that any remaining unaddressed harms are small relative to the costs of implementing more heavyhanded regulation.
That’s not how the internet should work. Call Congress.
!!!@@@$$$

Apple’s Thanksgiving ad this year teaches us that if we all wear AirPods, we can transport ourselves into a Stranger Things-esque world — minus the monsters and the grime — filled with ballet and sexy lighting. Then, by pirouetting through the streets and picking lint off strangers’ jackets, we, too, can find love. (That is, until the Sam Smith song ends.)
The music video ad is a weird, almost literal interpretation of Sam Smith’s “Palace,” except instead of the woman’s head being filled with ruins, it’s filled with romantic spotlights and plenty of wild gymnastics.
While it doesn’t encourage me to give Apple $159 for a pair of electric toothbrush head-like ear accessories I would definitely lose in the snow if I were to attempt to dance like that, the video might make others fall under the spell of the spending-crazed holiday magic:
!!!@@@$$$

Lee Unkrich has an obvious, visible presence at Pixar Animation Studios, as a co-director on Toy Story 2, Monsters Inc., and Finding Nemo, and the solo director of Toy Story 3. But like so many of Pixar’s senior creative crew, he’s had a less-obvious hand in the company’s projects from the earliest days, with credits reaching back to his editing on Toy Story and A Bug’s Life, and scattered work on other Pixar films ranging from supporting vocal work to supplemental story material. In other words, he’s one of the “brain trust,” the long-standing team that’s helped shape the studio’s voice and philosophy from the beginning, from informal feedback to the formal development workshops that made Pixar a standout in the animation field.
Unkrich is back in the director’s chair for Pixar’s latest project Coco, an emotionally powerful family adventure about a boy named Miguel (Anthony Gonzalez) who crosses over into the Land of the Dead and seeks out his idol, the singer Ernesto de la Cruz. The film is fundamentally built around Mexican language, music, and culture, especially the Día de los Muertos traditions of honoring the dead. I recently spoke with Unkrich about his directorial partnership with a young Mexican-American writer and animator at Pixar, the false story starts Pixar went through on Coco, and why Pixar makes specialized prints of its movies for different audiences.
I was just reading an interview with you from 2010 where you talk about how much anxiety and agony you suffered over making Toy Story 3. You called it “fear-based filmmaking,” because you worked so hard out of fear of letting people down. Did you go through anything similar here?
I did, but in a different way. In that case, I was petrified of going down in film history as the guy who directed the bad sequel to the two beloved Toy Story films. That was a lot of what drove me on that film. In this case, I did have a lot of anxiety when we were making this film about the fact that we were taking on a real culture in the world, and the fact that I’m not Mexican or Latino myself. I felt an enormous responsibility on my shoulders to do it right, to do everything I could to set us up for success, to surround ourselves with experts, to immerse ourselves in Mexican culture as much as we could.
And so yeah, I did have anxiety because of that, and just because this was a tough story to crack. There were a lot of times while we were making this that the story just wasn’t quite coming together. And I had the normal anxiety I think we all have at Pixar, that we’re not going to be able to crack the problem and make the movie work. But having gone through it on Toy Story 3, and having successfully gotten to the other side, I had a little bit of a better perspective this time. I knew the film would get done one way or the other. I just hoped it would be as good as it could be.
Pixar films go through long development processes at the story stage. I’ve read that this one started as the story of an American kid discovering his Mexican heritage. What other story stages did you go through? What did you discard along the way?
That was really the biggest change we made, changing from that early story. It was less about a kid discovering his Mexican heritage. The primary thrust was a kid who had lost his mother, and it was very much about him learning to let go of her and moving on with his life. And we realized after developing that for a while that we were telling a story that was really thematically antithetical to what Día de los Muertos is all about. Día de los Muertos is about never letting go. It’s about this obligation that we have to hold onto the memories of our ancestors, and not let their memories die. And when I realized that, I knew we really needed to start over and tell a different story than we were telling. And at that point, we had already done a lot of research, and spent a lot of time in Mexico, and I was for the first time comfortable telling a story from a Mexican perspective, about a kid in Mexico, in a Mexican family. Our first stab at the story reflected the fact that none of us at the time were from Mexico, so it made sense to tell it from an outside perspective, because I knew we were going to have to teach the audience about the traditions, and about Mexico, and that seemed like a logical way to do it initially.
You brought in cultural consultants, and you mentioned your extensive Mexican travel. What did you learn among all of this that was most surprising to you that you most wanted to put in this story?
The biggest thing we didn’t know that came out of the research was from someone who was advising us, an expert on Dia de los Muertos. We learned for the first time about this notion that we all can potentially die three deaths. The first one being when our heart stops, and we’re no longer living. The second being when we’re buried or cremated, and nobody can see us anymore. And we all have the potential to die this third and final death when there’s nobody left among the living who remembers us, who knew us. That seemed like such a powerful, poignant idea, and we knew we needed it to be part of the film somehow. Initially, it was more of a side idea. But ultimately, in the course of story development, we realized it really was core, a central idea that needed to be what the film was ultimately all about. And over time, we gradually wove that idea into the bedrock foundation of our story.
What was your directorial partnership with Adrian Molina like? What was your work process together?
Adrian and I worked with Darla on Toy Story 3. Initially, he was a storyboard artist. He came to us from CalArts. He had an internship at Pixar, and I think he was only 21 when he started working on Toy Story 3. He quickly became a really valuable member of our story team, bringing a lot of great humor and great ideas to the film. We encourage our story artists to give notes and thoughts from time to time, and I always found his notes particularly insightful and thorough and well-considered. And then he went off and worked on other films — Monsters University and The Good Dinosaur. In both cases, he contributed a lot to those stories.
And then when we were making Coco, Adrian really wanted to be a part of it, and we were happy to have him, because I love working with him. He really served just as a story artist for the first few years, but he continued to submit great notes and great thoughts, and more and more, he became part of our core group that was really banging on the story. And at one point in the development, we really hit some roadblocks. We were having a hard time, really stuck in the mud. Adrian started writing actual screenplay pages on his own, and he sheepishly gave them to me and said, “I know you don’t have to read these, but I needed to get this out of my system and give it a try.” And they were really fantastic. They were as good as any pages that I read from any established writer.
So we took a leap of faith and asked Adrian to take over duties as a screenwriter and he did that until the end. He did a fantastic job. And I started to rely on him more and more in my day-to-day work on the film. So at a certain point, we asked him to step up and be the co-director of the film. We’d been so like-minded, and it’s always great to have a trusted person to turn to, especially when you’re really having a hard time figuring the movie out. He provided that for me. And it was a fringe benefit that he’s Mexican-American himself, and so he was able to tap into his own family history, his family stories. Ultimately, working on this film was very personal for him, and he was very passionate about making the best film it could be. And then, finally, the other reason I wanted him to direct is that he’s a rising talent in the studio. This was a great opportunity for him to be mentored by me, and see the entire process of what it takes to make a film of this magnitude.
Do you remember what the sticking point in the film was, and what his fix for it was?
It had to do with the mechanics of what Miguel was trying to do with the Land of the Dead, and what he needed to do to get back out. We tried a lot of different ideas, and all of them felt kind of surface and plot-driven. What Adrian brought was the idea that Miguel needed his family’s blessing to return home. That came from something very personal in his own life. When he headed off to college, his mother and father had him kneel down, and they actually gave him their blessing to go off into life and do what he wanted to do, and that he would always have their blessing. It was very meaningful to him in an unexpected way. They had never done anything like that before. And so the thought occurred to him to introduce this idea, and it ended up being really central and thematically on-point. It really helped solve some problems we’d been having.
Your interviews about the earliest Pixar films focused on the technological developments of figuring out how to do fur and faces and water, learning something new with each movie. That doesn’t come up as much with Pixar anymore, because the animation has become so sophisticated. Does the studio still focus its environment around technological innovation?
It’s always important to us to continue to innovate, and to do things we haven’t done before, but that’s never what’s driving why we do it. We don’t come up with stories that allow us to innovate. We come up with story ideas, and then the innovation becomes necessary to tell that story. Everyone at Pixar is wired to know that no matter what the movie looks like, ultimately it doesn’t matter if the story’s not good. That has remained the same for the 25 years or so I’ve been in the studio. Everything is driven by story. Everything serves the story.
Were there challenges here where you needed to innovate to tell the story you wanted to tell?
It was mostly that I had a vision of what I wanted the Land of the Dead to look like, and it took a lot of work to realize that on-screen. It took a lot of really smart people to figure out how to do it. There were many things we hadn’t done before. We’d never done skeletons, so a lot of work went into designing skeletons that were appealing, and not frightening. And the scope of this movie was really enormous, so there was a lot of under-the-hood innovation that needed to happen for us to be able to realize the visual density. We had an extensive amount of geometry that we were trying to put up on screen. There are some shots with 6 million light sources. Those kinds of images can bring computers, even today’s really fast computers, to their knees. And that can put you in a situation where it would take so long to render images that you’d never be able to finish the movie. So we’ve got some really smart folks on our team that figure out really innovative ways of optimizing, so you can get that density in the imagery, but as far as the computer knows, the geometry is much simpler. And so it’s renderable, and you can have your cake and eat it, too. That’s my dumb, non-computer-scientist way of describing it. There are scenes at the end where we have thousands and thousands of animated skeletons. And I honestly don’t even know how [the programmers] did what they did. I just told them what I wanted, and they figured out how to do it.
The language in this movie is such a mix of Spanish and English. I don’t speak Spanish, but I still caught a few language jokes, like Miguel entering a music contest as “little de la Cruz,” naming himself after his idol. How did you decide how to handle the language? And are there jokes in there that only Spanish speakers are going to get?
We always wanted to have Spanish be a part of it, because the film takes place in Mexico, and in reality, all these characters would be speaking Spanish. So we made some choices, like both in Santa Cecilia and the Land of the Dead, I wanted all the signage to be in Spanish, unless we needed to have English for a story point. The English signs get translated into different languages around the world, but it’s primarily Spanish. And then in the language itself, we really tried to incorporate Spanish wherever we could, either simple words everybody knows, like “gracias” or “hola,” or in other cases, making sure that the way it was performed, or the inflection made it make sense. Like when Abuelita calls Miguel “mijo,” maybe that’s not a word all people know, but the way she’s saying it and rubbing his cheek, you understand what she’s saying. There are some great turns of phrase that I think an English-speaking audience won’t find particularly amusing, but we get big laughs from Spanish speakers. Like there’s a moment where Hector makes a big claim about knowing de la Cruz, and says he used to play music with him, and Miguel says, “No manches!” We get just from his attitude that he’s kind of saying, “Get out of here!” That’s a turn of phrase that’s very colloquial in the Spanish-speaking population, and we know from screening the film as often as we have that when we do have Spanish-speaking people in the audience, they really laugh at that. It’s such an inside-joke phrase to be using. We did our homework and went the extra mile to try to move beyond stereotypes or clichés, and try to do something real.
When you say the English signs will be translated into different languages, do you actually render different versions of the film for different countries?
We do! We don’t re-render the whole film, but we render different versions of those shots. In some cases, we’ll translate into many different languages. I think we translate our movies into something like 52 different languages. So we will do localized versions of a lot of shots. Sometimes we’ll just do one single alternate international version of a shot, that kind of suffices for a world audience. For instance, at the very end of this film, the camera cranes up to a sign that says “The End” in the English version. For the international version, rather then translating “The End” into 52 languages, we created one sign that says “Coco.” It just kind of depends on the complexity of doing a sign in another language. If it’s pretty straightforward text, we’ll do it in many different languages. But if it’s more complicated, say, because the text is part of a three-dimensional sign that would involve a lot of modeling, we’ll often come up with a universal version that works all around the world, that involves symbols rather than letters. Another example: when Miguel first gets to de la Cruz’s tower in the English version, there’s a sign that says “Seize your moment” in brass letters over the tram. The international version just has musical notes on a staff in brass over the door, so it didn’t rely on language at all.
Music is an important part of this movie, with some big story beats where the content of the songs matter as much as the performances. How did you go about developing the songs to integrate with the story?
Well, the first song we created was “Remember Me,” and that was purely driven by when we were first developing the storyline, I knew I wanted a song that could have different meanings and feelings, depending on how it was arranged and was sung. We envisioned a song we would first hear as a big, splashy showstopper, but could later hear as a lullaby. That’s what we approached Bobby Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez with. And they came back to us with these two versions of “Remember Me.” Some of the other songs in the movie, since Adrian was writing the screenplay at that point, I asked him to take a crack at writing lyrics. Initially, it was really to save a step of finding outside songwriters to work on it. I knew Adrian was such a good writer, and a budding musician, so I asked him to take a crack at lyrics in line with what we were trying to communicate story-wise. He did, and then we collaborated with Germaine Franco, a Mexican-American composer we’ve been working with. We first brought her on to create an arrangement of “Remember Me” as a demo, and the mariachi version of the Disney logo music at the beginning of the movie. We loved working with her, and we asked her to take a crack at writing music for the songs Adrian had written lyrics for. It ended up being a really good partnership. They loved working together, and that yielded another four songs in the movie.
!!!@@@$$$

All the major smartphones of 2017 are out in the world, but it’s never to early to start thinking about next year’s flagships. Samsung is reportedly starting earlier than ever, with the company reportedly previewing the S9 and S9+ at CES in January, according to Evan Blass at VentureBeat.
The S9 and S9+ are said to be more iterative updates on the existing S8 and S8+ than the radical redesign Samsung offered this year. According to Blass, the new phones should see upgraded processors — likely Qualcomm’s forthcoming Snapdragon 845 — for an extra speed boost, but the biggest change is said to be Samsung moving the fingerprint sensor back below the camera, instead of the problematic location next to the lens that Samsung has placed it on the S8, S8+, and Note 8. Both phones should also see the addition of AKG stereo speakers. And don’t worry, the headphone jack is reportedly sticking around for another year.
According to Blass, the S9+ is also getting a few upgrades over the smaller S9, with the larger device reportedly getting 6GB of RAM (instead of the 4GB found in the S9), and a second rear camera similar to the Note 8.
Finally, Samsung is also rumored to be releasing a new version of its DeX dock that places the phone flat, allowing it to be used as a virtual keyboard or touchpad. (It’s also said to be backwards compatible with older Samsung devices.)
It’s still not clear how much of this will be previewed at CES versus Samsung’s traditional March launch event, which is also reportedly taking place. But with the annual tech show looming in the distance, it won’t be too long of a wait.
!!!@@@$$$

FCC Chairman Ajit Pai released his proposal to kill net neutrality today, and while there’s a lot to be unhappy with, it’s hard not to be taken with the brazenness of his argument.
Pai thinks it was a mistake for the FCC to try and stop Comcast from blocking BitTorrent in 2008, thinks all of the regulatory actions the FCC took after that to give itself the authority to prevent blocking were wrong, and wants to go back to the legal framework that allowed Comcast to block BitTorrent. Seriously, it’s all right at the top (it’s long, but read my emphasis in bold):
14. In the 2008 Comcast-BitTorrent Order, the Commission sought to directly enforce federal Internet policy that it drew from various statutory provisions consistent with the Internet Policy Statement, finding certain actions by Comcast “contravene[d] . . . federal policy” by “significantly imped[ing] consumers’ ability to access the content and use the applications of their choice.” In 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit rejected the Commission’s action, holding that the Commission had not justified its action as a valid exercise of ancillary authority.
[Bullets 15, 16, and 17 are the history of the FCC first trying to pass rules under Title I, Verizon winning a lawsuit in which the court said the rules would have to be under Title II, and then passing the rules under Title II.]
18. In May 2017, we adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Internet Freedom NPRM), in which we proposed to return to the successful light-touch bipartisan framework that promoted a free and open Internet and, for almost twenty years, saw it flourish. Specifically, the Internet Freedom NPRM proposed to reinstate the information service classification of broadband Internet access service. The Internet Freedom NPRM also proposed to reinstate the determination that mobile broadband Internet access service is not a commercial mobile service. To determine how to best honor the Commission’s commitment to restoring the free and open Internet, the Internet Freedom NPRM also proposed to reevaluate the Commission’s existing rules and enforcement regime to analyze whether ex ante regulatory intervention in the market is necessary. Specifically, the Internet Freedom NPRM proposed to eliminate the Internet conduct standard and the non-exhaustive list of factors intended to guide application of that rule. It also sought comment on whether to keep, modify, or eliminate the bright-line conduct and transparency rules.
There are pages and pages of legal argument after this, all of which people will argue about endlessly in the weeks ahead of Pai’s planned December vote, but really, it’s all right there. The FCC couldn’t stop Comcast from blocking BitTorrent in 2008, it changed the rules so it would have that power, and Pai wants to undo that change and give Comcast the power to block internet services like BitTorrent once again. Later, Pai says Comcast blocking BitTorrent could have been challenged under antitrust and consumer protection laws on a case-by-case basis, but fails to say who, exactly, would bring that suit against Comcast and bear the costs. The FTC? Groups of BitTorrent users? And case-by-case rulings mean the precedents don’t have much weight. We had a rule, but Pai is saying we should have more lawsuits instead.
Later in the proposal, Pai says his rules will “significantly reduce the likelihood” ISPs like Comcast will engage in behaviors that harm consumers. Not prevent, mind you, but reduce the chances. Such trust in market forces to work in a broadband market where 51 percent of Americans only have one choice of broadband provider! And if there is harmful behavior? Well, it won’t be so bad because at least we didn’t impose regulatory costs on Comcast and Verizon. Seriously, that’s what it says (emphasis, again, is mine):
Further, the transparency rule we adopt today will require ISPs to clearly disclose such practices and this, coupled with existing consumer protection and antitrust laws, will significantly reduce the likelihood that ISPs will engage in actions that would harm consumers or competition. To the extent that our approach relying on transparency requirements, consumer protection laws, and antitrust laws does not address all concerns, we find that any remaining unaddressed harms are small relative to the costs of implementing more heavyhanded regulation.
That’s not how the internet should work. Call Congress.
!!!@@@$$$

When I was in university, my trusty Nintendo DS went everywhere I did. I kept it stashed in my bag at all times, and whenever I needed a break I’d jump into Animal Crossing: Wild World to relax. The life simulation game, where players build a virtual life in a bucolic town full of animal friends, had a sense of aimlessness that made it the perfect distraction. If I had a few minutes in between classes, I could plant some fruit trees, catch a few fish, or chat with my neighbors. It’s a lot like the way I play mobile games today, making steady, incremental progress whenever I’m free. This week’s release of Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp on iOS and Android confirms that the series is a great fit for mobile. It makes some compromises, but delivers the core of what I want from Animal Crossing: a nice, slow way to unwind.
Previous Animal Crossing games were wonderfully open-ended, dropping your human avatar in a town full of animals and letting you wander. You could make friends, pay off your mortgage, become an avid bug collector, or none of the above. The focus on simply living a virtual life without high-pressure goals was a large part of the appeal.
In Pocket Camp, you’re still a human surrounded by talking animals, but this time your home base is campground rather than a house. As in other Animal Crossing games, you can decorate your living space, chat with animals, and give gifts to improve your friendships. The real-time clock also makes the leap to mobile, where some events only happen at certain times or on certain days, and when you pick some fruit from a tree you’ll need to wait a specified number of hours for more to grow back. It’s what makes these games such a satisfying habit, something you play for a few minutes each day, rather than gorging on it all at once. The real-time structure fits mobile really well, since the game is on a device you always have with you. I’ve found myself doing a bit of fishing before bed, and letting the chill nighttime music lull me to sleep.
There are some changes and compromises that come with the new format, however, and Pocket Camp feels a bit more like a typical video game because of them. The most obvious example is the constant barrage of goals. In order to progress and unlock new content, you’ll need to complete a never-ending list of arbitrary milestones, like catching 50 fish or making five new friends. It’s something you can ignore, of course, but then you’d miss out on a lot of the experience. You earn both money and experience from completing goals, which in turn unlocks new content like decorations for your campsite, or more animal friends to meet.
This more focused approach is baked right into the structure of the world. Instead of one large open space you can explore, Pocket Camp is divided into a series of smaller areas, each with a specific function. If you want to catch some bugs, there’s an island just for that, while you can go fishing either at the beach or a local stream. There’s even an area specifically for picking fruit. It makes sense that the game would be smaller in scale on mobile, but what this structure really does is take away a lot of the sense of discovery and aimlessness.
In past Animal Crossing games, you could amble across your town and stumble on a weird new bug, or luck upon some coconuts washed up on the beach. That doesn’t happen in Pocket Camp: any time you go somewhere, you do so with a predetermined goal in mind. Keen series fans will also notice that a number of iconic features, like gardening or digging for fossils, aren’t present in the new game.
All that said, Pocket Camp still does a remarkable job of emulating the soothing pace that makes Animal Crossing so appealing. Even with the spectre of goals and progress looming, the actual act of playing is still very relaxing. Catching bugs and fish is a lot of fun, and I’ve spent a lot of time fussing about with my campsite, setting it up just right. And the in-game chatter remains as charming as ever. It’s hard not to smile when talking to a cute yellow elephant who makes great soup, or a purple cat who won’t stop calling you silly.
Animal Crossing’s distinct structure also makes some of the more frustrating elements common to free-to-play mobile games much less annoying. Waiting for fruit to grow, for instance, doesn’t feel like a burden because, well, that’s how the game has always worked. You have the option to speed things up by using fertilizer, which can be bought with a premium in-game currency, but I haven’t felt the need to. The same goes for the new crafting feature. Here you can build your own furniture (though there’s still a market to shop at) using materials gathered from completing goals and helping out friendly animals. Depending on what you’re building, it can take hours to finish, or you can speed up the process with cash. But as someone who has spent actual days waiting for my house to be remodeled in previous Animal Crossing games, this never bothered me. It feels like a natural part of the game, as opposed to something tacked on to get you to spend money.
There are a few additions that don’t work so well, though. Most notable is the new mining mechanic, where you can go to a section of the campground and dig up resources that can then be used for crafting. In order to do so, however, you’ll need to either spend premium currency or pester five friends for their help. It’s a callback to annoying Facebook games like FarmVille, and it’s the one place where it feels like the game is trying to squeeze cash out of you. Pocket Camp also adds some new social features, but they feel woefully underdeveloped. You can visit the campsites of your real-world friends, but there’s very little you can actually do with them, aside from check out their furniture and buy some of their freshly caught fish. The fact that you can’t send gifts or notes — a beloved feature in past Animal Crossing games — is a major omission.
Pocket Camp chops up the Animal Crossing formula and puts it back together in ways that don’t always work, but ultimately it doesn’t change the overall feel of the game. It’s still a leisurely experience, one where hanging out with friends or picking apples are vital daily activities. Pocket Camp changes things, and ultimately shrinks the experience, but it also keeps just enough of Animal Crossing’s essence to make it work. And the shift to mobile adds something important. Animal Crossing is a game best enjoyed as a daily habit, and there’s no better place for that than on your phone.
Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp is available now on iOS and Android.

!!!@@@$$$

Scientists have created a new robotic device that can keep a failing heart beating by gently squeezing half of it. The device has only been tested in pigs for now, but it holds the potential to one day save the lives of people with heart failure.
The robot is made of three parts: a rigid, half-moon frame that hugs one side of the heart, an “anchor” that goes inside the heart, and a soft, muscle-like band that twists and contracts, squeezing the heart to keep the blood flowing. The researchers successfully tested the device in pigs that were given different types of heart failure in the lab — allowing their hearts to keep pumping blood the way they were supposed to, according to a study published today in the journal Science Robotics.
Around the world, at least 26 million people suffer from heart failure. Many of these are children, who are born with congenital diseases that don’t allow their hearts to pump enough blood, says study co-author Nikolay Vasilyev, a researcher for Boston Children's Hospital and assistant professor of surgery at Harvard Medical School. Heart transplantation is the best option, but there’s a shortage of donor organs. As people await transplantation, their hearts are put on so-called ventricular assist devices, or VADs. These devices use artificial tubes to reroute blood from the heart to the vessels going in and out, but they can cause serious problems: blood can clot in the tubes, putting people at risk of stroke. To avoid that, patients with VADs are given blood thinners, but that can cause dangerous bleeding.
So researchers are looking for better options. Earlier this year, researchers at Harvard created a soft robot that functioned as a silicone “sleeve” around the heart, squeezing the organ so it could pump blood again. (That device was also tested in pigs.) The device described in today’s study, created by some of the same Harvard researchers, also squeezes the heart to restore blood flow, but with a different mechanism.
The latest device doesn’t target the whole heart, but only half of it. The human heart is divided into two lower chambers, called ventricles: the right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs, while the left one pumps blood to the rest of the body. When people have heart failure, sometimes it’s because only one of the two ventricles isn’t working. So the new device is meant to target only the malfunctioning ventricle, not both, like the soft robot described earlier this year.
To do this, the new device has a rigid “anchor” that braces the sturdy muscle wall separating the two ventricles. That way, when compressed air is pumped into the device to twist the elastic bands on one side of the heart, only one ventricle is squeezed to eject blood, leaving the healthy ventricle alone. The device — which is placed through a small cut — also syncs up its squeezing with the heart’s existing rhythm, so it can function autonomously. Unlike existing VADs, this device doesn’t reroute blood through artificial tubes, says Vasilyev. That means that patients could receive much less blood thinning medication, avoiding complications like bleeding and stroke. “It’s a completely different concept,” Vasilyev tells The Verge.
The device isn’t perfect: it’s connected through wires to an outside air pumping and control box that’s a little bigger than a DVD player. The researchers also tested the device only on pigs, for about an hour. Before it could actually be used in people, longer-term animal studies and clinical trials need to show it’s safe and effective. In the future, the air pumping box could be made more portable, Vasilyev says, so that people with the device could technically be discharged from hospitals. But that’s a long way away: Vasilyev hopes that the device will become available in a few years, allowing patients — especially children — waiting for heart transplants to survive longer and with fewer complications.
“I truly hope that our device will help those children,” Vasilyev says.
!!!@@@$$$

As the FCC moves ahead with its plan to dismantle net neutrality protections, pro-net neutrality groups say they’re planning protests at Verizon stores around the country on December 7th.
“We'll demand that our members of Congress take action to stop Verizon's puppet FCC from killing net neutrality,” the organizers write on a website dedicated to the protests.
The groups, which have organized protests like the digital “day of action,” say volunteer organizers are planning for the protests, which will be held in several cities. In some cases, protesters will march to lawmakers’ offices as well.
This week, the FCC announced its intention to vote on a rollback of net neutrality protections on December 14th. The changes, spearheaded by Chairman Ajit Pai, are likely to pass through the Republican-dominated Commission.
Verizon holds a dual significance as a target of protest. For one, the company has been a prominent critic of the current net neutrality rules, and stands to benefit if they’re dismantled. Pai was also at one time a lawyer for the company.
Verizon did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the protests.
!!!@@@$$$

Hey there. How you feeling? Ready to regret that fourth slice of pie tomorrow and then follow it up with some shopping on Monday? Same. I know we're all going to be working through lots of feelings these next few days, and Circuit Breaker Live is here to help you. We're back!
Paul Miller, Ashley Carman (that's me), and Chaim Gartenberg will be live on Twitter at 9AM ET for a special Cyber Monday edition of the gadget show. Click here to join. This episode won't have any wacky gadget demos, but it will have deals. Chaim is our resident Deal Expert, so he'll jump into the conversation with breaking deals while Paul and I help you sort out your purchase-related feelings. Feeling down that you're looking for new headphones because your old ones were your favorites? Or maybe you're conflicted because you love both Microsoft and Apple, but don't know how to make the decision between a MacBook or a Surface Book.
As we always say, we aren't tech support, so we can't give you buying advice, but we can help you grapple with your emotions. You can reach us through Twitter, either by tweeting directly at us at @futurepaul and @ashleyrcarman, or through the show's hashtag #CircuitBreakerLive. For only this show, we'll have a phone number you can call to talk to Paul and I directly. It's 1-844-4EMOTION (or 1-844-436-6846). Please call us and share your feelings with the world.
!!!@@@$$$

While Black Friday deals can help you buy up smart home appliances on the cheap, the opposite also exists for users looking for a taste of luxury. Smart home accessory maker Ring just revealed a limited edition video doorbell encrusted in jewels. The very poshly named Ring Elite Crown Jewel has 2,077 sapphires and 40 diamonds set into an 18-karat gold faceplate, all made by Bijan Jewelry.
The Elite Crown Jewel’s video doorbell components are based on Ring’s Video Doorbell Elite, a slim model with high-end features like HD video and infrared night vision. The Video Doorbell Elite usually goes for $499.99 at Best Buy and $450 at Amazon, but with the extra decorations, the Elite Crown Jewel’s price tag has been bumped up to $100,000.
There are only 10 units made of the Elite Crown Jewel and they’re being sold at the Selfridges on Oxford Street, which is a UK-based chain of department stores. Perhaps as a way of easing the consciences of any luxury buyers, Ring also announced that the proceeds are going to UK charities aimed at reducing crime.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.



!!!@@@$$$

Hunting for the tapeworms that infest shark and ray guts has made Kirsten Jensen and Janine Caira pros at dissecting on the fly. The two parasitologists have extracted fish entrails in parking lots, on moving boats, and on hotel room balconies. They have to act quickly, because tapeworms don’t survive for long in the bowels of a dead host. Wait too long and “the worms tend to rot because they’re delicate little creatures,” Caira says. “Tiny, delicate, beautiful little creatures.”
Tapeworms are bizarre parasites that latch onto the lining of animals’ guts — yeah, yours, too — and soak up the nutrients floating by. With no heads and no intestines of their own, these living noodles can stretch from a hundredth of an inch to 100 feet in length. For nearly a decade, Jensen at the University of Kansas and Caira at the University of Connecticut have spearheaded an international effort to inventory all of the tapeworms on Earth. Now, the team has reported on nearly 5,000 species of tapeworm in a massive paper published by the University of Kansas Museum of Natural History, including 215 species that are newly discovered.
The project began as part of a larger push by the National Science Foundation to survey the planet’s biodiversity — particularly for less-loved creatures. It’s important work, because tapeworms are the nightmare versions of canaries in the coal mine. These parasites travel up the food chain as they mature: in the ocean, for instance, tapeworm eggs are slurped up by tiny crustaceans, which then get eaten by bigger creatures, like fish. The tapeworm larvae develop in this new host until a larger animal, like a shark, eats it. And that’s how full-grown tapeworms end up in the guts of sharks. It’s the circle of life. So the presence of adult tapeworms in an ecosystem means that the food chain is healthy and intact (if gross).
That’s why scientists went looking for the parasites all over the world. Jensen and Caira were in charge of searching for the tapeworms infecting sharks and rays. (Other teams investigated the bowels of birds, mammals, reptiles, and bony fish.) They partnered with local scientists, visited fish markets, and followed fishing boats in 16 different countries, offering to clean fresh catches. That’s how the two scientists found themselves on the backs of scooters racing to a harbor in Vietnam to retrieve the guts of a freshly caught ray. With a baggie of entrails in hand, they skulked back to the hotel room. “You don’t exactly want the hotel to know that you're dissecting on your balcony,” Caira says.
During a break from tapeworm-hunting — there are probably 20,000 different species out there — the two scientists spoke with The Verge about their favorite tapeworms, and how to avoid getting infected.
This interview has been edited for brevity and clarity.
Kirsten Jensen: The tapeworms that my lab primarily studies have a thing on the apex of their scolex, [the front part of a tapeworm that latches on to the host’s intestines], which makes them look like they’re wearing hats. [That’s] a genus that we named Seussapex. We don't want to get into trouble for not having told Dr. Seuss that we did this, but it’s named after Dr. Seuss because it looks just like a Dr. Seuss character.
Janine Caira: It looks just like the Cat in the Hat's hat. One of the groups of tapeworms that my lab works on has hooks, so they look kind of vicious, but they're actually pretty awesome. It turns out that the hooks are made of several different kinds of protein — some of which may actually be unknown as of yet. The anterior part of the tapeworm, in that case, is divided into two separate regions that function sort of on their own, independent of one another. It pushes the boundary of how bizarre tapeworms are for me. But it also is a really cool-looking tapeworm.
KJ: From eating raw or undercooked fish or meat that contains a larval tapeworm. But as soon as it's cooked, any of that fish or meat would be safe to eat in terms of tapeworm infection. Humans cannot contract any of the tapeworms in sharks or stingrays, birds, or certain groups of mammals that are not closely related to us.
JC: We would appreciate if in your article, you could put in big capital letters: “TO AVOID CONTRACTING TAPEWORMS, COOK YOUR FOOD.”
JC: No. It's kind of a fallacy. In the case of that really long tapeworm that does infect humans, it has a super high affinity for vitamin B12, so sometimes it will cause anemia. But for the most part, tapeworms, if they’re in their natural host, they don’t do a lot of damage. Probably because we think the tapeworms for sharks and rays have been there for hundreds of millions years. They’re not helping the host, so it's not a mutualistic association, but they’re not doing a huge amount of damage to the host either.
KJ and JC: No!
JC: Bad idea, bad idea. In the end, it doesn't actually consume that much food. It’s kind of fallacious to think that tapeworms actually out-compete what’s happening in your gut. If anything, [some could] give you a vitamin B12 deficiency and erode the surface of your mucosa a bit. [For a pet,] pick something more like… a chinchilla.
KJ and JC: No.
JC: There is a fairly large nematode [a type of roundworm] that people can actually get as an infection. In this case, the individuals are separate sexes and the female has been known to wander around the body including coming out the nose while looking for a male. But, that's not a tapeworm.
KJ: I can’t not enjoy my sushi, I have to admit.
JC: I find it quite a challenge that I work with people who still eat raw fish.
KJ: I don’t know if I’m a risk taker. If you cut your fish thin enough, you might see it, given a trained eye…
JC: Or you could just cook your food and be fully confident you're not picking up a tapeworm infection! I'm just saying. I’m a big fan of cooked food, and yes, it's because I’m a parasitologist.

!!!@@@$$$

Facebook plans to offer a portal where users can see if they engaged with pages linked to Russian propaganda efforts. The portal, which Facebook says will be released by the end of the year, will show users whether they liked or followed specific Facebook or Instagram accounts backed by the Kremlin-linked Internet Research Agency. It will track activity between January 2015 and August 2017, and be available through the Facebook Help Center.
The accounts in question were part of a broad effort to, in Facebook’s words, “sow division and mistrust” before and after the 2016 election. They ostensibly supported American political causes across the ideological spectrum, and appear to have gained some traction among actual Facebook users — at least one allegedly Russia-linked page successfully organized offline rallies. The Internet Research Agency also allegedly pushed thousands of divisive ads to 10 million people, often directing them to similarly themed pages. Facebook has since said that it’s taking more steps to prevent ads from any “inauthentic operation,” including vetting the groups behind them.
Facebook says that this portal “is part of our ongoing effort to protect our platforms and the people who use them from bad actors who try to undermine our democracy.” It’s also a way of signaling to Congress that it’s serious about transparency, after being accused of dragging its feet in the investigation over Russia-linked ads. But the tool’s capabilities are limited. It apparently won’t say whether you saw or shared posts from the accounts — only whether you engaged with them directly.
!!!@@@$$$

Roku’s new Streaming Stick Plus may have only come out a few weeks ago, but the company is already putting it on sale for Black Friday for $20 off, dropping the price from $69.99 down to $49.99 for a limited time.
The Streaming Stick Plus supports 4K, HDR, and Roku’s entire catalog of app channels, although, as we noted in our review, content offerings for 4K and HDR are a bit slim right now. Still, if you’re looking to future-proof your set-top box options, it’s a pretty significant discount on such a new product.
The deal goes live on November 23rd at 12:01AM ET and runs through November 28th at 2:59AM ET while supplies last at various retailers and Roku.com.
!!!@@@$$$

It’s difficult to fathom why anyone in the Jurassic Park universe would still think screwing with dinosaurs with a good idea. They get a pass for the first movie, where they arguably didn’t know that the magnificent dinos were going to eat everyone around them. But after The Lost World, where a T. rex wreaked havoc on San Diego, Jurassic Park 3, where I presume dinosaurs killed more people, and Jurassic World, which was filled with glorious scenes of park guests being terrorized and eaten, you’d think people might have learned their lesson. The new teaser for Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom, however, confirms that people’s love of dinosaurs is still somehow greater than their fear of being digested.
We know very little about Fallen Kingdom, which is slated for release next summer, aside from how clearly excited its creators are to have Jeff Goldblum reprise his role as Dr. Ian Malcolm. Based on today’s teaser, where Owen (Chris Pratt) gives a good chin scratch to a tinysaurus, we can conclude that despite the four previous films where playing with dinosaurs led to death and horror, the film’s characters still haven’t learned that it’s a bad idea to treat dinosaurs like a scaly house cat.
From our Jurassic family to yours. @FilmBayona @PrattPrattPratt @BryceDHoward @LeDoctor #FALLENKINGDOM pic.twitter.com/KiR3et9Vx1
So why won’t people in the Jurassic Park films stop making dinosaur death parks, aside from the fact that it’s the premise of the series? One word: money. Once you have the power to create a long-extinct creature and earn a buck off it, common sense sounds pretty dull. Jurassic World took this to a hilarious new level, insisting that the park’s developers needed to create hybrid dinosaur monsters to boost flagging attendance at the park, a dubious premise at best. Investors are not impressed with the murdersaurus they have currently. They need a new one. Can it have a chainsaw for a mouth?
It’s hard to imagine a scenario where a tropical park full of living dinosaurs wouldn’t be spectacularly attractive to rich people everywhere. As this perfect Reddit comment points out, “Fucking Disneyland manages to stay profitable and they don't have a monopoly on ACTUAL LIVE MOTHER FUCKING DINOSAURS!”

!!!@@@$$$

Building your studio is expensive! Luckily, that’s what Black Friday is for. Now is the time to splurge on some plugins, sample packs, or even the synths and microphones you’ve been eyeing but couldn’t bring yourself to buy. From Moog to Pro Tools to Subpac, there are tons of deals available for musicians and producers. Here are some of the top picks, with more to come.
If you buy one Black Friday deal this year, this should probably be it. Waves’ Diamond Bundle, the company’s top-of-the-line suite with 65 audio mixing and mastering plugins, from dynamics to pitch correction, is going for an astounding 90 percent off. It’s currently priced at $299 (normally $2,999). If you don’t want to bundle and instead want to pick and choose individual plugins, there’s lots of Waves discounts to be had all around.
FL Studio: Save up to $350 on select Razer Blade laptops, and get a free copy of FL Studio Producer Edition (with lifetime free updates). The DAW is normally $199. The deal runs until the 30th of November and is valid in the US, Canada, EU (English), the UK, Germany, France, Australia, Singapore, and Hong Kong.
PreSonus: Until November 27th, PreSonus’ DAW Studio One and its notation software, Notion 6, are 50 percent off. That means you can nab Studio One 3 Artist for $49.50 (normally $99), Studio One 3 Professional for $199.50 (normally $399), and all crossgrades and upgrades at the same 50 percent discount. During the sale, Notion 6 is $74.97 (normally $149.95), and all crossgrades and upgrades have the same 50 percent discount.
Ableton Live: Ableton Live recently announced the newest version of its DAW, Live 10, coming early 2018. In the meantime, purchase the current version, Live 9, with a 20 percent discount, and get a free upgrade to Live 10 when it comes out. During the sale, Live 9 Intro is $79 (normally $99), Standard is $359 (normally $449), and Suite is $599 (normally $749).
Propellerhead: Reason 10 is currently $100 off, making the digital download of the DAW only $299.
Bitwig: New customers can save $100 on Bitwig Studio 2 during the company’s winter sale. Grab it now from Bitwig’s webshop for $299.
iZotope: iZotope is offering discounts on both bundles and individual products. The Mix & Master Bundle, for example, which includes Ozone 8 Standard and Neutron 2 Standard is $199 for any Standard product owner (regularly $398). Individually, products like mastering tool Ozone Elements is $29 (regularly $129) and audio repair tool RX Elements is $29 (regularly $129).
Lennar Digital: Until November 27th, get Sylenth1 for 25 percent off. Enter the coupon code BLFR2017 during the order process. The discount does not apply to monthly payment plans, but can be used for paying off a remaining balance.
Beatport: Until Monday, dance music retailer Beatport is offering up to 50 percent off your cart with a mystery sale. The discount changes hourly, so enter CYBERSALE at checkout to discover your savings.
Loopmasters: Get up to 70 percent off sample packs from Big Fish Audio, Prime Loops, ModeAudio, Freaky Loops, and more.
Serato: Get 50 percent off on the full Serato DJ Suite, which includes Serato DJ, Serato Video, Serato DVS, Serato FX Pack, Serato Flip, and Serato Pitch ‘n Time DJ. Serato’s Control Vinyl is also 50 percent off, minus the standard black version, so if you’ve been eyeing one of the ?uestlove 7-inch vinyls or a pop of color with a pair of yellow or purple marbled 12-inch vinyls, now’s the time to splurge.
Universal Audio: Universal Audio is currently doing 12 Days of UAD, where it reveals deals every day until December 1st. The company has knocked 50 percent off several bundles and plugins: the SSL 4000 E Channel Strip collection is $149 (regularly $299) and Little Labs’ Voice Of God Bass Resonance is $75 (regularly $149.99). Check the site daily for additional sales.
Reveal Sound: Get coveted Spire synth with a massive sound bundle for $259 (regularly $375).
Splice: Get two free months of Splice Sounds (a cloud-based sample and preset library with over 1 million sounds) with code 2FREE (normally $7.99 a month). New customers only.
Fender Play: Until December 31st, receive 50 percent off Fender Play (a video-based platform for learning to play guitar) for your entire subscription duration (normally $19.99 per month). Offer for new subscribers only.
Steinberg: Until November 27th, save 40 percent on Steinberg’s Absolute 3 VST Instrument Collection, which includes The Grand 3 for piano sounds, Padshop Pro for granular sound design, Retrologue 2 for vintage analog synth sounds, and more. Enter coupon code ABSOLUTE2017 at checkout.
Plugin Boutique: There are tons of plugins on sale here with deep discounts. Vocal editing tool Celemony Melodyne Essential is $49 (normally $99), and Sugar Bytes synth Cyclop is $49 (normally $99). Poke around the site for more great deals on VSTs and AUs.
Native Instruments: Native Instruments is knocking up to 50 percent off over 180 instruments, effects, and more, including Massive and Kontakt 5. Hardware alert: if you’ve been eyeing the new Maschine MK3, this could be a good time to scoop one up. The company is bundling it with Komplete 11, a suite of instruments, products, and sounds, for $798.50 (normally $1,198).
Sol Republic: Sol Republic is offering 30 percent off any product over $29.99, and is throwing in free shipping. That means you can grab the Tracks HD2 for $59.99 (normally $99.99). The deal will end at 11:59PM ET on November 27th and is only good for US customers.
Sweetwater: Retailer Sweetwater has a lot of Black Friday deals going on, like 20 percent off their regular price for Avid Pro Tools 12 software with an upgrade plan. Sweetwater is offering the DAW’s monthly subscription at $10 a month for 48 months. By comparison, if you purchase the monthly subscription directly on the Avid website, it’s $24.92 a month. They’re also currently offering a chunk off custom Westone AC10 in-ear monitors at $239.99 (regularly $299.99). If you’re looking for speakers, the company just bought up a bunch of Focal CMS 65 6.5-inch Powered Studio Monitors. Normally $795 each, Sweetwater is offering the remaining stock at $495 per unit.
Guitar Center: Guitar Center has a 25 percent off code (SAVE25) that is applied to quite a few items. The code makes the Alesis VX49 keyboard controller $299.25 (regularly $399), the KRK Rokit 5 G3 studio monitor $112.49 (regularly $149.99), and the Road Runner ATA DJ Case $288.74 (regularly $384.99). There’s tons more available on Guitar Center’s website, so go have a browse.
ACS: These custom, in-ear monitors that also offer hearing protection are currently on sale from 10 to 35 percent off. For example, get the PRO17 hearing protection buds for $120.25 (regularly $185), and the Evoke Custom in-ear monitors for $276.25 (regularly $425).
AKG: The brand is offering 50 percent off headphones, including the over ear Y50 model. On top of that, enter code FREE2DAY to get free two day shipping on any order over $19.99.
Pioneer DJ: Until November 27th, cop a pair of DM-40 speakers in white or black for $99 (regularly $149). The company is also currently offering a couple of mail-in rebates. If you purchase a DJM-900NXS2 4-channel professional DJ mixer from an authorized Pioneer DJ dealer through December 31st, you can claim a free pair of HDJ-2000MK2 DJ headphones (priced at $249.99). Also, if you purchase a TORAIZ AS-1 monophonic analog synth from an authorized Pioneer DJ dealer through December 31st, you can claim a free pair of HRM-5 studio headphones (priced at $99). All claims must be postmarked by January 31st, 2018, and the offer is only valid in the US and Canada.
V-Moda: V-Moda is offering a steep discount on its popular Crossfade Wireless headphones. Normally $300, you can grab them now for $180. That’s 40 percent knocked off the usual price.
DJ TechTools: All versions of the Midi Fighter — the Twister, 3D, and 64 — are 20 percent off. Its backpack, made specifically to carry DJ controllers and bring as a flight carry-on, is also on sale for $119 (regularly $149.99). Lastly, the company’s Chroma USB cables are 50 percent off, making them a 2-for-1 deal.
Shure: Shure is offering discounts on a bunch of products through the end of the year. Some headphone deals include the SRH550DJ for $79 (regularly $99), the SRH750DJ for $99 (regularly $149), and the SRH1840 open backs for $399 (regularly $499). Microphones are also on sale. Vocal microphone SM58 is $89 (regularly $99), large diaphragm condenser mic MV51 is $149 (regularly $199), and drum mic kit DMK57-52 is $369 (regularly $399). There’s a whole bunch more scattered around the Shure website and all deals are good until December 31st.
Subpac: Wearable bass system Subpac is offering a Subpac S2 for $199 with a free BackPac. The Subpac S2 is normally $299 and the BackPac is $79 so that’s nearly $200 in savings. It’s only for the first 100 customers, so if you’ve been thinking about getting one of these for your studio, now is definitely the time.
ROLI: ROLI is offering $200 cash back on the Seaboard RISE 49 (priced at $1,099.95) and $100 cash back on the RISE 25 (priced at $849.95). Along with the cash back, your purchase will also come with acoustic drum studio software FXpansion’s BFD3 for free (worth $350). The Lightpad Block also has a cash back deal of $50 (priced at $179.95) bundled with a free Snapcase Solo protective case (worth $39.95). Deals run through November 28th.
Moog: Moog is offering up to 30 percent off the following Moog instruments: Minimoog Model D, Minimoog Voyager XL, Sub Phatty, Minitaur, Mother-32, Werkstatt-01, Etherwave Theremins, Theremini, Moogerfoogers, and Minifoogers. Find an authorized Moog retailer to inquire about discounts and availability.
PSSL: Many of PSSL’s Black Friday deals are for pro lighting and trussing, but one product in particular is worth noting: it’s offering the MXL Revelation Solo Tube Condenser Microphone for only $299.99. Normally $999.95, the cardiod mic features a EF86 pentode tube, 32mm 6 micron gold sputtered capsule, and a full complement of Mogami cables.
!!!@@@$$$

Apple’s ambitions to build a self-driving car have reportedly shifted gears over the years, but we know the company is focusing on the software side of the equation. This June, CEO Tim Cook said the iPhone maker is building autonomous systems that could power a range of different vehicles (rather than, say, working on its own Apple-branded SUVs). “We sort of see it as the mother of all AI projects,” said Cook.
Now, new research from the company’s machine learning team confirms this direction, with a paper published on pre-print server arXiv describing a mapping system that could be put to a range of uses, including powering “autonomous navigation, housekeeping robots, and augmented / virtual reality.” Though, to be clear, this is just academic research: it doesn’t indicate that Apple is working on these particular use-cases.
The system in question is called VoxelNet, and it’s all about improving the data we get from the eyes of most self-driving systems: LIDAR sensors. These components are integral to lots of autonomous vehicles, and work by bouncing lasers off nearby objects to build a 3D model of their surroundings. They offer better depth information than regular cameras, but produce patchy maps, with large sections often rendered invisible by objects blocking the laser’s path. This leads to maps that are “sparse and have highly variable point density,” as Apple’s researchers put it. In other words, it’s not good for safe self-driving.
To overcome this problem, engineers often deploy a number of discrete systems that first divide up the 3D LIDAR data into areas of interest (split into 3D pixels known as “voxels”) and then categorize what’s in it (identifying bikes, pedestrians, street signs, and so on). Apple’s VoxelNet basically compresses these processes into a single neural network, resulting in a system that’s more efficient than its predecessors. Researchers Yin Zhou and Oncel Tuzel benchmarked VoxelNet’s performance against a number of rival programs, and it handily outperformed them.
Is it groundbreaking research for self-driving cars? Well, no, not really. Roland Meertens, a Dutch engineer who builds computer vision systems for autonomous vehicles, said the results were impressive, but pointed out that other firms have long been using different methods to overcome LIDAR’s shortcomings — including combining its 3D data with feeds from regular cameras.
“Tesla, for example, does not use LIDAR at all, but their vehicles are pretty good at lane-keeping,” Meertens told The Verge. He adds that although VoxelNet could potentially be used for self-driving cars (including Apple’s) it will be “mainly interesting for other researchers working with similar data solving different problems in other spaces.”
That makes sense considering Apple has only published it on an academic server. More interesting, perhaps, is the fact it’s public at all. Apple’s notoriously secretive corporate culture means it’s not as forthcoming about its AI work as rival tech firms like Google and Facebook. This has been a drawback for its work in AI, a community where publishing top-quality research helps attract top-quality talent. Apple has made some moves to open up a little, including starting a blog this July that spotlights key areas of its work.
So far, the blog has looked at a number of AI tools underpinning important Apple products, including face identification (for Face ID) and speech recognition (for Siri). But the company has yet to publish any research on autonomous systems on its blog — including this paper. It seems Apple is happy to conduct research on how to create detailed maps, but isn’t keen to plot out a public course for its own self-driving ambitions just yet.
!!!@@@$$$

The FCC has released the final draft of its proposal to destroy net neutrality. The order removes nearly every net neutrality rule on the books — internet providers will be free to experiment with fast and slow lanes, prioritize their own traffic, and block apps and services. There’s really only one rule left here: that ISPs have to publicly disclose when they’re doing these things.
In the proposal, the commission calls its 2015 net neutrality ruling a “misguided and legally flawed approach.” It repeatedly states that the 2015 order “erred,” was “incorrect,” and came to “erroneous conclusions.” Removing these rules, the commission now argues, will “facilitate critical broadband investment and innovation by removing regulatory uncertainty and lowering compliance costs.”
The proposal also argues that consumer protections simply aren’t necessary because Federal Trade Commission will now have oversight of ISPs. “The transparency requirement we adopt, together with antitrust and consumer protection laws, ensures that consumers have means to take remedial action if an ISP engages in behavior inconsistent with an open internet,” the proposal states.
So while blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization may be okay with the FCC, the commission says that ISPs will still have to answer to the FTC, which may or may not be okay with those things. At a bare minimum though, the FTC has to be at least somewhat accepting of them — a court has already ruled that blocking those things outright would treat internet providers like common carriers; and since this proposal removes the common carrier designation from internet providers, that won’t be allowed.
Net neutrality supporters have long argued that these policies could unfairly advantage ISPs’ own content. But in the proposal, the FCC says it thinks that won’t happen — simply because some web companies are so much wealthier than ISPs. “It is unlikely that any ISP, except the very largest, could exercise market power in negotiations with Google or Netflix,” the proposal says. It also argues that small web companies need not worry, because any deal made between a large web company, like Google, and an ISP would need to be consistent with antitrust laws.
Existing antitrust law is the commission’s answer for pretty much every problem that could come up. Why should the FCC have its own rules on the books, it essentially asks, if federal law already covers many of these things? That ignores something important, though: federal antitrust law isn’t used very aggressively, whereas the FCC could have strictly enforced prohibitions on anti-competitive behavior. It’s not a huge leap to say this change is designed to significantly loosen the regulatory leash around ISPs so that they can go off and try new practices, even if they may put consumers at risk.
And in a fun twist, the commission also intends to prevent states from passing their own net neutrality laws. Allowing states to implement their own rules, the commission says, “could pose an obstacle to or place an undue burden” on the delivery of broadband service.
The order will be voted on next month, at the commission’s December 14th meeting, where it’s almost certain to pass.
!!!@@@$$$

Two years ago, NASA made a big splash when it announced the discovery of flowing water on the surface of Mars. But it turns out, the space agency might have been wrong. The surface features that NASA thought were made up of liquid water may actually be flowing grains of sand instead, according to new research from the US Geological Survey. And that could decrease the chances of microbial life living on the Red Planet.
The features in question are dark streaks that show up periodically on Martian hills, known as recurring slope lineae, or RSLs. When one of NASA’s spacecraft, the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, studied these lines more closely, it found that the RSLs were made up of hydrated salts — meaning they were mixed with water molecules. At the time, NASA thought that was significant evidence that flowing liquid water caused these bizarre streaks.
But researchers at the USGS say these features look identical to certain types of slopes found on sand dunes here on Earth. Those slopes are caused by dry grains of sand flowing downhill, without the help of any water. It’s possible the same thing is happening on Mars, too. Since liquid water is key for life here on Earth, many thought these strange lines of flowing water may help support life on the Martian surface. But now these RSLs may not be the best place to look for life anymore.
Of course, it’s still possible that life could exist on Mars, but researchers may want to focus on other places, like under the surface. It’s thought that liquid water exists underground, where it’s a bit warmer and easier for water to stay a liquid. “Mars still has water now, it just might be in fewer accessible places,” Michael Meyer, the lead scientist for NASA’s Mars Exploration Program, tells The Verge.
The RSLs seemed to contain water because of the weird way they behave: the streaks seem to seep down the hills, a bit like water trickling downward. That, and they grow thicker in the warmer months. While Mars is pretty frigid, its temperatures can exceed -9 degrees Fahrenheit during the summer, making the surface a bit more accommodating for water. In fact, water on Mars is thought to contain a type of salt called perchlorates that can make it easier for water to exist as a liquid at colder temperatures. Scientists thought that maybe the warm summers allowed this salty water to flow.
But the USGS thinks there’s another explanation for how the streaks form: researchers studied the shapes of 151 RSLs and found that all of them are located on slopes steeper than 27 degrees. But the flows appear to stop when the slopes become less steep — which water wouldn’t do. Instead, the RSLs all seem to form at slopes similar to what you’d find with piles of sand on Earth, according to lead study author Colin Dundas. Plus, the dark streaks seem to flow out of the tops of the hills, but water probably wouldn’t sprout out of the the tops of slopes at these angles, he says. Instead, the water would probably start flowing out somewhere farther down the slope.
Researchers still think that what the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter found is solid, and that hydrated salts are involved. But they’re probably not as wet as NASA originally thought. “This suggests there isn’t a large amount of liquid water associated with RSLs,” Dundas, a research geologist with the USGS, tells The Verge. “There may be a small amount of liquid water involved... but this is pointing to a relatively dry mechanism.”
So this may mean Mars’ surface isn’t as habitable as we thought, but that doesn’t mean the search is over yet. “There are lots of things that speak to Mars at least having the potential for life early on,” says Meyer. “And if it did happen, it has the potential for life hidden deep down below the surface.”


!!!@@@$$$

Black Friday is upon us, but if you’ve been paying attention, you’ll have noticed that sales this year started as early as November 1st. That’s been the trend in recent years, as retailers move the start date earlier to maximize sales. What that means for the rest of us is that we need more stamina than ever to stay vigilant and alert and snatch the best deals — that is, if you want to win at Black Friday.
At The Verge, we’ve been scouring the web to bring you the best Black Friday deals in tech. While we don’t typically write about karaoke machines, massage pads, or children’s toys, with the exception of this nifty Nintendo Switch lookalike, we can confidently say now is a good time to swipe those items if you want them for the holiday season.
As retail workers will note, some of the very best deals are insider deals. If your company is holding a charity sale or if you work in retail and can apply an employee discount on top of a Black Friday discount, that’s the icing on top of the cake. For the rest of us, however, here are some general tips for winning at Black Friday.
A common way retailers get you is by saying there are “deals” when there really aren’t. This leaves you, compelled by the spirit of good spending, to decide to buy everything you see for fear the discount will disappear. A good rule of thumb is to keep a running list of products you need, like a smart speaker or a new monitor, and then note their manufacturer’s suggested retail prices (MSRP) and their actual usual prices. Then, compare them to what the prices are now during Black Friday weekend, or even from last year’s Black Friday sales for similar models.
Beware of retailers that suddenly boast the MSRP of certain products. The keyword of that acronym is “suggested,” meaning most times, things like TVs and headphones are never actually sold at the exact MSRP and often priced for less. Ads will often say something is significantly marked down, but if a 4K smart TV is now $1,000, marked down from a $2,000 suggested retail price, and it’s usually sold elsewhere at $1,020 any other time of year, then that’s not a huge bargain. That’s just business as usual.
To reiterate: just because something is advertised at 70 percent off MSRP, that doesn’t mean it’s cheaper than it has been year round. Do your research to know what’s a good deal and what isn’t. And if you’re super concerned about overspending, bring cash to the brick-and-mortar stores so you’re limited to buying just what you came for.
Newer devices like the Apple Watch Series 3 and the Nintendo Switch most likely won’t get massive discounts during Black Friday. That’s to be expected; these are relatively new products for Apple and Nintendo, and both companies are relying on them to sell like hotcakes even at full retail. Case in point, the best deal we’ve seen for the Apple Watch Series 3 was a $5 discount offered by eBay. And as of this reporting, we haven’t seen any deals for the Switch just yet. Small retailers that are offering $199 for the 42mm model of the Apple Watch Series 3 with cellular are likely a scam to be avoided. Trust your gut. If it’s too good to be true, don’t risk it.
Another general theme we’ve seen is that most new flagship smartphones won’t see an unusually steep discount — not the Samsung Galaxy S8, the Note 8, and certainly not the iPhone X. Some carriers like T-Mobile are offering mediocre deals that let you buy one and get one free if you add a line, but these are not true Black Friday deals as they’re typically offered when the phones first launch.
Keep in mind that retailers like Newegg, Best Buy, and others are likewise offering fewer discounts on new computer parts, laptops, and gaming accessories that have been out for less than half a year. This means that if you were hoping to build a gaming PC this holiday season with the latest specs like an Intel Core i7-8700k with a Nvidia GTX 1080 Ti, but you were holding off in case of deals, just go ahead and press the buy button now. That is unless Newegg’s select PC part deals or other deals listed on the subreddit /r/buildapcsales just happen to be the ones you had your eye on.
After Yahoo disclosed in October that all of its 3 billion user accounts were affected by the 2013 security breach, there became virtually no reason why anyone should continue using their Yahoo account — except for subscribing to every major retailer for emails. It’s where I keep my promotional emails from Dropbox, Starbucks, League of Legends, Hulu, and more. By keeping all these coupons in an email you’re likely to only check once a week at most, you can strike the perfect balance of staying on top of deals, but not letting them take over your life.
In the same vein, you should download the apps of all the major retailers you’re interested in so you can capitalize on app-exclusive deals. Make sure to head into Notifications to switch off push notifications. Sure, this might make you several minutes late to a few crucial deals, but it does wonders for mental health during a very hectic shopping season.
Patience, young padawan. Like a hunter stalking your prey, if you’re online shopping, keep tabs open in incognito mode and in regular mode just in case retailers are switching up prices on you. If you are banking on getting a TV this weekend, have a backup model you’ll be happy with as plan B. That way, if the one you want is sold out, you’re ready to move forward with a second option.
If you’re heading into Black Friday brick-and-mortar madness, pick a store that generally gets less traffic, and make sure you bring a water bottle, snacks, a battery pack, and a giant backpack to lug your treasures back with you.
Deals can be extremely satisfying, but not worth risking any kind of injury to obtain. That includes physical injuries by arguing with other shoppers in the store, or digital ones where you are buying from sites with poor security practices and little fraud protection. Look for HTTPS in retailer URLs, and put your purchases on one credit card to easily monitor spending.
Some deals started last week, others start now or later this weekend, so stay rested and hydrated. Check the return policies on things you buy and apply credit card cash back when possible. Whatever you do, don’t panic and impulse buy 10 Google Home Minis unless you really need them. Good luck.
!!!@@@$$$

The FCC received a record-breaking 22 million comments chiming in on the net neutrality debate, but from the sound of it, it’s ignoring the vast majority of them. In a call with reporters yesterday discussing its plan to end net neutrality, a senior FCC official said that 7.5 million of those comments were the exact same letter, which was submitted using 45,000 fake email addresses.
But even ignoring the potential spam, the commission said it didn’t really care about the public’s opinion on net neutrality unless it was phrased in unique legal terms. The vast majority of the 22 million comments were form letters, the official said, and unless those letters introduced new facts into the record or made serious legal arguments, they didn’t have much bearing on the decision. The commission didn’t care about comments that were only stating opinion.
The FCC has been clear all year that it’s focused on “quality” over “quantity” when it comes to comments on net neutrality. In fairness to the commission, this isn’t an open vote. It’s a deliberative process that weighs a lot of different factors to create policy that balances the interests of many stakeholders. But it still feels brazen hearing the commission staff repeatedly discount Americans’ preference for consumer protections, simply because they aren’t phrased in legal terms.
Americans by and large aren’t lawyers capable of putting together cogent legal analysis of telecommunications law, and prewritten form letters were widely offered to net neutrality supporters and opponents as a way to make their voice heard by the 